GAGE, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 197, passed 3-10-2022
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions and notes
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to statutes
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This code may be cited as the Gage Town Code or other properly identifying
description. When a change or changes have been prepared and inserted in the
code as provided herein below, the words “as amended” may be added to the
citation or title when referring to the code as amended.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code for the convenience of persons using
the code, and shall have no legal effect.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Town Board of Trustees of Gage.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Ellis County, Oklahoma.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the state Constitution and
state statutes, the ordinances of the town and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, such as “Clerk-Treasurer,”
“Town Clerk-Treasurer,” “Town Attorney,” “Fire Chief,” “Police Chief” and the
like, they shall mean the officers, agencies or departments of the town.
      PERSON. Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates and
government agencies, except when a contrary intention plainly appears.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the state as they now
are or as they may be amended.
      STREET. Street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, highway,
court, place, square, curb or any other public way in the town which is
dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN, THIS TOWN or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Gage, Oklahoma.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the town include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the town include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed by the Town Board of
Trustees after this code goes into effect is invalid, all valid parts which are
severable from the invalid parts remain in effect. If a part of this code or of
any ordinance passed hereinafter is invalid in one or more of its applications,
the part remains in effect in all valid applications which are severable from
the invalid applications.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   Reference to the statutes of the state means the statutes as they are now or
as they may be amended, and a reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a certain
year also means the comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature passed prior to and in effect at the time the code is adopted but not
included in the code are hereby repealed as of the time when the code goes into
effect.
   (B)   Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed or
amended by the adoption of the code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.17 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case, all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance of the Town
Board of Trustees, as provided hereinafter.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, are listed following the text of the code
section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 1-402) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see 51
O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the Prior Code section number
shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, § 50.01).”
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty.
      (1)   Penalty imposed. Whenever in this code, in any ordinance of the
town, or in any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to this code, any act
or failure to do a required act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided
herein or therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code or any
ordinance or rule shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500, except
where another specific penalty is established in this code. If a penalty is
limited by state law, such violations shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed the maximum permitted by state law. Each day any person is in violation
of any provision of this code, and each day any such violation occurs or
continues to exist, shall be a separate offense.
      (2)   Prohibited acts include causing, permitting or concealing. Whenever
in this code any act or omission is made unlawful or prohibited, it shall
include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting or concealing the fact
of such act or omission.
      (3)   License suspension or revocation. The suspension or revocation of
any license, certificate or other privilege conferred by the town shall not be
regarded as a penalty for the purposes of this code, but shall be in addition
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Civil relief from violations. No penalty imposed by or pursuant to
division (A) above or any other section of this code or other ordinance of the
town shall interfere with the right of the town to apply to the proper courts
of the state for a writ of mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate relief
in the case of violations of this code or other ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   Territorial applicability. Except as provided otherwise, this code
refers only to the commission or omission of acts within the territorial limits
of the town and to that territory outside the town over which the town has
jurisdiction, ownership or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory
provision, or any law.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
   (D)   Application of provisions.
      (1)   Application of penalty. The penalty provided in this chapter shall
be applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part
of each and every separate section.
      (2)   Acts punishable under different sections. In all cases where the
same offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections
of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense.
      (3)   Breach of provisions. Whenever the doing of any act or the omission
to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code,
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
   (E)   Liability of officers. No provision of this code designating the
duties of any officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such officer
or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform
such duty, unless the intention of the Town Board to impose such fine or
penalty on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in
the section creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-5)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate limits; official map
§ 11.01 CORPORATE LIMITS; OFFICIAL MAP.
   The map of the town showing its territorial limits, as maintained in the
office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, is hereby designated as the official map of
the town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon, and as amended, are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the town, including all
annexations made to the town through and including the date of January 1, 1997.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
34.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   FINANCE AND FEES
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Mayor; election from Board members; duties
   
30.03   Meetings of Board of Trustees
   
30.04   Elections by County Election Board; town officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The town is governed under the Board of Trustees form of government. The
Board of Trustees shall consist of five Trustees who are elected for positions
at large, without regard to their residence within the corporate limits of the
town. All powers of the town shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by
this code, by state statute and in such manner prescribed by ordinances adopted
by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.02 MAYOR; ELECTION FROM BOARD MEMBERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   Election; term. The Board of Trustees shall elect from among its
members a Mayor. The Mayor shall be elected in each odd numbered year at the
first Board of Trustees meeting held after the Trustee terms begin, or as soon
thereafter as practicable. The Mayor shall serve until his or her successor has
been elected and qualified.
   (B)   Duties. The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board and shall
certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by
it. He or she shall be recognized as head of the town government for all
ceremonial purposes and shall have such other powers, duties and functions as
may be prescribed by law or ordinance. The Mayor shall have all the powers,
rights, duties and responsibilities of a Trustee, including the right to vote
on questions.
   (C)   Acting Mayor. During the absence, disability or suspension of the
Mayor, the Board shall elect from among its members an Acting Mayor.
   (D)   Filling vacancy. When a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor, the
Board shall elect another Mayor from among its members to serve for the
duration of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 30.03 MEETINGS OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Regular and adjourned meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held on the
second Thursday of every month at 7:00 p.m., unless otherwise posted, and at
such other times as may be determined by the Board. Meetings are held at the
Town Hall or other agreed upon place which is open to the public. If the
meeting date falls on a town holiday, the regular meeting shall be held at that
time on the next day which is not a holiday (excluding Saturday or Sunday).
      (2)   Any adjourned meeting may be held at any other place in the town
designated by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Rules governing proceedings. The Board of Trustees may from time to
time adopt rules to govern the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3) (Ord. 192, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 30.04 ELECTIONS BY COUNTY ELECTION BOARD; TOWN OFFICERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to 11 O.S. § 16-302 (effective November 1, 2013), the town
hereby declares that it shall not be governed by the State Town Meeting Act,
being 11 O.S. §§ 16-301 et seq., as a means of electing its officers and
deciding initiative and referendum questions.
   (B)   The town shall elect its officers and decide initiative and referendum
questions through elections conducted by the County Election Board, pursuant to
11 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq., except that the Town Clerk-Treasurer is an officer
of the town and shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees, and said position
shall be subject to §
31.20.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. 186, passed 8-25-2014; Ord. 187, passed 11-27-2014)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Administrative departments, officers and agencies
   
31.02   Bonds of officers and employees
   
31.03   Compensation
   
31.04   Books delivered to successor
   
31.05   Social Security
   
31.06   Employee Retirement System
   
31.07   Firefighters Pension and Retirement System
Officials and Employees
   
31.20   Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.21   Town Attorney
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS, OFFICERS AND AGENCIES.
   There shall be such administrative departments, agencies and officers as the
Board of Trustees may establish.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.02 BONDS OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Bonds required. The Town Clerk-Treasurer and such officers and
employees as are designated by the Town Board of Trustees shall, before
entering upon the discharge of their duties, execute and file with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer surety bonds issued by a surety company authorized to operate
in the state conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
   (B)   Premium paid by town. The town shall pay the premium on such bonds.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Elected officers. Compensation of elected officers of the town shall
be as provided by the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Other officers and employees. The compensation of other officers and
employees shall be set by motion or resolution.
   (C)   Reimbursement for mileage and expenses. All officers and employees of
the town shall be compensated for mileage when required to use their private
vehicles, expenses such as food, lodging and similar travel expenses, and any
loss of pay when engaged in town business.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 31.04 BOOKS DELIVERED TO SUCCESSOR.
   All books, vouchers, monies or other property belonging to the corporation
in charge or possession of any officer of the same shall be delivered to his or
her successor when qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4)
§ 31.05 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. It is hereby declared to be the policy of the
town to extend, at the earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof,
not excluded by law or this section, and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the system of federal old
age and survivors insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act,
being 42 U.S.C. Ch. 7, and amendments thereto. In pursuance of this policy, the
town shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal
laws or regulations.
   (B)   Execution of agreement with state. The Mayor is hereby authorized and
directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the
appropriate state agent or agency, to secure coverage of employees and
officials as provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Withholdings. Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purpose provided in division (A) above are hereby authorized
to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable
state or federal laws or regulations and shall be paid over to the state or
federal agency designated by the laws or regulations.
   (D)   Employer contributions. There shall be appropriated from available
funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations for employers’ contributions, which shall be paid
over to the state or federal agency designated by said laws or regulations.
   (E)   Records. The town shall keep such records and make such reports as may
be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   (F)   Exclusions.
      (1)   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make
any agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official now
covered, or authorized to be covered, by any other ordinance creating any
retirement system for any employee or official of the town.
      (2)   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make an
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official,
compensation for which is on a fee basis, or any position or any employee or
official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5)
§ 31.06 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   System created. Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the
state, and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on
the part of town employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is
hereby authorized, created, established and approved and adopted, effective as
of April 1, 2022, the funded pension plan designated “Employee Retirement
System of the Town of Gage, Oklahoma, defined contribution plan” (hereinafter
called “system”), an executed counterpart of which is marked exhibit A (joinder
agreement) and exhibit B (amended and restated plan) and attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
   (B)   Fund. A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of
the persons entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to such
fund shall be paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the town.
Such fund shall be pooled for purposes of management and investment with
similar funds of other incorporated cities, towns and municipal trusts in the
state as a part of the State Municipal Retirement Fund, in accordance with the
trust agreement of the State Municipal Retirement Fund, a public trust. The
town shall hold such contributions in the form received and from time to time
pay over and transfer the same to the State Municipal Retirement Fund, as duly
authorized and directed by the Board of Trustees. The fund shall be non-fiscal
and shall not be considered in computing any levy when the annual estimate is
made to the County Excise Board.
   (C)   Appropriations.
      (1)   The town is hereby authorized to incur the necessary expenses for
the establishment, operation and administration of the system, and to
appropriate and pay the same. In addition, the town is hereby authorized to
appropriate annually such amounts as are required in addition to employee
contributions to maintain the system and the fund in accordance with the
provisions of the defined contribution plan.
      (2)   Any appropriation so made to maintain the system and fund shall be
for deferred wages or salaries, and for the payment of necessary expenses of
operation and administration to be transferred to the Trustees of the State
Municipal Retirement Fund for such purposes, and shall be paid into the fund
when available, to be duly transferred to the State Municipal Retirement Fund.
   (D)   Execution.
      (1)   The Mayor and Town Clerk-Treasurer are each hereby authorized and
directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an
original) the system instrument, and to do all other acts and things necessary,
advisable and proper to put said system and related trust into full force and
effect, and to make such changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the
same under I.R.C. §§ 401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of the
United States. The counterpart attached as exhibit A and exhibit B to the
ordinance codified herein, which has been duly executed as aforesaid
simultaneously with the passage of this section and made a part hereof, is
hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
      (2)   The Committee is hereby authorized and directed to proceed
immediately on behalf of the town to pool and combine the fund into the State
Municipal Retirement Fund as a part thereof, with similar funds of such other
cities and towns, for purposes of pooled management and investment.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-6) (Ord. 181, passed 5-26-2011; Ord. 197, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 31.07 FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   System created. There is hereby created, for the purpose of providing
pension retirement allowance and other benefits for firefighters of the town, a
Firefighters Pension and Retirement System. It is declared to be the official
policy of the town to participate in the pension system as provided by state
law.
   (B)   Operation in compliance with state law.
      (1)   The Firefighters Pension and Retirement System, as established by
11 O.S. §§ 49-100.1 et seq., is hereby adopted by reference.
      (2)   The local Board of Trustees of the Firefighters Pension and
Retirement System, servicing the firefighters of the town, shall be constituted
as provided by state law and shall have the powers and duties prescribed
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 49-100.1 et seq.
OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.20 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is an officer of the town and
shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees, and said position shall be subject
to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Duties as Clerk. As Clerk, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Keep the journal of proceedings of the Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Enroll all ordinances and resolutions passed by the Board of
Trustees in a book or set of books kept for that purpose;
      (3)   Have custody of documents, records and archives, as may be provided
for by law or by ordinance, and have custody of the town seal;
      (4)   Attest and affix the seal of the town to documents, as required by
law or ordinance; and
      (5)   Have such other powers, duties and functions related to the
statutory duties of the Clerk-Treasurer, as may be prescribed by law or
ordinance.
   (C)   Duties as Treasurer. As Treasurer, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to the town have been derived and to whom and when any monies have
been paid;
      (2)   Deposit daily funds received for the town in depositories as the
Board of Trustees may designate; and
      (3)   Have such other powers, duties and functions related to the
statutory duties of the Treasurer as may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
   (D)   Compensation; pay period. The pay period for the Clerk-Treasurer shall
be monthly in such sum as set by the Town Board, contingent upon the Clerk-
Treasurer’s performance of the Clerk-Treasurer’s statutory duties.
   (E)   Additional duties.
      (1)   The person serving as Town Clerk-Treasurer may be employed by the
town to perform duties not related to the statutory duties of Clerk-Treasurer
as an employee of the town. The additional duties shall be performed by the
person serving as Clerk-Treasurer or as otherwise provided by motion or other
action of the Town Board. The person performing additional duties shall serve
at the pleasure of the Board and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed
by the Board.
      (2)   The pay period for performing additional duties shall be the same
as for other town employees and in accordance with any personnel policy or
other policy of the town. The salary for performing additional duties shall not
be subject to constitutional restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 185, passed 3-31-2014; Ord. 186, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 31.21 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment. The Town Attorney is an officer of the town, appointed by
the Mayor with the confirmation of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Duties. The Town Attorney shall have such duties as are prescribed by
the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Commission created; membership; terms
   
32.02   Quorum
   
32.03   Organization and rules
   
32.04   Power to employ staff
   
32.05   Comprehensive plan
   
32.06   Subdivision of land
   
32.07   Zoning Commission; regulations
Board of Adjustment
   
32.20   Board created; membership; terms
   
32.21   Powers
   
32.22   Rules and procedures; meetings
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   (A)   Creation; appointment. There is hereby created a Planning Commission
of the town. The Commission shall be composed of five members, nominated by the
Mayor and confirmed by the Town Board of Trustees. The Mayor shall be an ex
officio member of the Commission and shall receive no compensation for his or
her service on the Commission.
   (B)   Terms; qualifications; compensation. Each appointed member shall hold
office for a period of three years, or until his or her successor takes office.
The appointed members of the Commission shall be nominated and appointed solely
with reference to their fitness, and without reference to party affiliation,
and shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   Removal; vacancies.
      (1)   Members may be removed by the Town Board of Trustees only for
inefficiency, neglect of duty or malefaction in office.
      (2)   Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term
shall be filled only for the unexpired terms by the Mayor with confirmation by
the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 10-1A-1)
§ 32.02 QUORUM.
   (A)   Three members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business.
   (B)   Any action taken shall be official when concurred in by not less than
a majority of all appointed members of the Planning Commission entitled to
vote.
(Prior Code, § 10-1A-2)
§ 32.03 ORGANIZATION AND RULES.
   (A)   Officers. Each year, the Commission shall elect a Chairperson, a Vice
Chairperson and a Secretary and may create and fill such other offices as it
may deem necessary. The term of the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary
shall be one year.
   (B)   Rules. The Planning Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction
of business and regulations necessary to effectuate the purposes of planning,
zoning and development.
(Prior Code, § 10-1A-3)
§ 32.04 POWER TO EMPLOY STAFF.
   (A)   Employment authority. The Planning Commission, subject to approval of
the Town Board of Trustees, shall have the power and authority to employ
planners, engineers, attorneys, clerks and other help deemed necessary within
the limits of the appropriation fixed by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Compensation. The salary and compensation of such employees shall be
fixed by the Town Board of Trustees and shall be paid out of the Town Treasury
as are other officers and employees. Necessary expenses incurred by the
Commission shall be paid from the Town Treasury as other legal expenses of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 10-1A-4)
§ 32.05 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Powers and duties of Commission.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall have the power to prepare and
recommend to the Town Board of Trustees for adoption a comprehensive plan for
the physical development of the town. In conducting its work, the Planning
Commission may consider and investigate any subject matter tending to the
development and betterment of the town and may make recommendations as it may
deem advisable concerning the adoption thereof to the Town Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may make or cause to be made surveys,
studies, maps and plans in the conduct of its activities. Before final action
is taken by the Town Board of Trustees on the location or design of any public
building, statue, memorial, park, boulevard, street, alley, playground, public
grounds, bridge or change in any location of any street or alley, such question
shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for investigation and report.
      (3)   In the preparation of the comprehensive plan, the Planning
Commission may from time to time prepare and recommend to the Town Board of
Trustees for adoption a part or parts thereof, which parts shall cover one or
more major geographical divisions of the town or one or more major elements of
the comprehensive plan. The Planning Commission may from time to time recommend
extending, amending or changing any portion of the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Purpose of plan.
      (1)   In the preparation of such plan, the Planning Commission may make
careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present conditions and future
growth of the town with due regard to its relation to neighboring territory.
      (2)   The plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the town
and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best
promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and general
welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development;
including, among other things, adequate provisions for traffic, the promotion
of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for light and air,
the promotion of healthful and convenient distribution of population, the
promotion of good civic design and arrangement and wise and efficient
expenditure of public funds.
(Prior Code, § 10-1A-5)
§ 32.06 SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   (A)   Recommendation to Board of Trustees. The Planning Commission may
prepare and recommend to the Town Board of Trustees for adoption of rules and
regulations governing the subdivision of land within the corporate limits of
the town.
   (B)   Submission of plans to Board of Trustees. All plans, plats or replats
of land laid out in lots, plots, blocks, streets, alleys or other ways intended
to be dedicated to public or private use within the corporate limits of the
town may first be submitted by the Town Board of Trustees to the Planning
Commission for its recommendations.
   (C)   Disapproval. The disapproval of any such plan, plat or replat by the
Town Board of Trustees shall be deemed a refusal of the dedications shown
thereon.
   (D)   Signatures for certification. No plat or replat of subdivision of
land, or dedication of street or alley or other easement, shall be entitled to
record unless it bears the signature of the Mayor, attested by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, certifying the approval and acceptance thereof by the Town Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 10-1A-6)
§ 32.07 ZONING COMMISSION; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Act as Zoning Commission. The Planning Commission shall also act as
the Zoning Commission, which shall have the power to prepare and to recommend
to the Town Board of Trustees for adoption a zoning plan to regulate and
restrict the height, number of stories and size of buildings and other
structures; the percentage of lot that may be occupied; the size of yards,
courts and other open spaces; the density of population; the location and use
of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residence and other
purposes.
   (B)   Uniformity of regulations.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may recommend the division of the town into
districts of such number, size and area as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the zoning plan.
      (2)   All such regulations shall be uniform for each class or kind of
buildings throughout each district, but the regulations in one district may
differ from those in other districts.
   (C)   Comprehensive plan, purpose of matters considered.
      (1)   Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive
plan and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from
fire, panic and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to
provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid
undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
      (2)   Such regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among
other things, as to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability
for particular uses, and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-1A-7)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 32.20 BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   (A)   Board created; residency. There is hereby created a Board of
Adjustment consisting of five members who shall be residents of the
incorporated area of the town included in the area zoned.
   (B)   Terms. The terms of each member shall be three years beginning January
1982, except that the terms of the original members shall be of such length and
so arranged that the term of one member will expire each year. Each member
shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Vacancies. Vacancies shall be filled by the Board of Trustees and
shall be for the respective unexpired term.
   (D)   Compensation. The members of the Board of Adjustment shall serve
without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 10-1B-1)
§ 32.21 POWERS.
   The Town Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To hear and decide variations to the town’s zoning ordinance; and
   (B)   To authorize such variances from the terms of the town’s zoning
ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the town’s
zoning ordinance or any amendments thereto will result in unnecessary hardship,
and so that the spirit of the land use regulations of this code shall be
observed and substantial justice done.
(Prior Code, § 10-1B-2)
§ 32.22 RULES AND PROCEDURES; MEETINGS.
   (A)   Adoption of rules. The Town Board of Adjustment shall organize and
adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of the town’s planning, zoning
and development regulations.
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine.
      (2)   All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the
public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member on each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicate such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Town Board of
Trustees and shall be public record.
   (C)   Administer oaths; compel attendance of witnesses. The Chairperson, or
in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths, and the
Town Board of Adjustment may compel the attendance of witnesses.
(Prior Code, § 10-1B-3)
CHAPTER 33: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Organization and operation of court
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Jurisdiction
Court Procedure
   
33.15   Change of venue; disqualification of Judge
   
33.16   Chief of Police as Principal Officer of court
   
33.17   Clerk of the court
   
33.18   Town Attorney; powers and duties
   
33.19   Traffic Violations Bureau; payment of fines
   
33.20   Schedule of fines
   
33.21   Prosecutions; filing of complaint; fees
   
33.22   Ordinance violations; citation issuance
   
33.23   Traffic bail bond provisions
   
33.24   Issuance of summons; failure to appear
   
33.25   Failure to appear; bond forfeiture; bench warrant
   
33.26   Complainant; witnesses; failure to appear
   
33.27   Issuance of warrant
   
33.28   Bail or bond procedures; bond schedule
   
33.29   Arraignment
   
33.30   Trial by jury
   
33.31   Judgment after trial
   
33.32   Payment of costs by defendant
   
33.33   Enforcement of fines and costs; imprisonment; work
   
33.34   Same offense punishable by different sections of code
   
33.35   Contempt of court
   
33.36   Penalty assessments
   
33.37   Fines recoverable by civil action
Judge
   
33.50   Office created; qualifications
   
33.51   Term of office
   
33.52   Appointment of Judge; Alternate Judge
   
33.53   Acting Judge
   
33.54   Compensation
   
33.55   Removal of Judge from office
   
33.56   Vacancy
   
33.57   Authority to prescribe rules
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF COURT.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Court of the town, as put into operation by resolution duly passed and filed in
accordance with law, as authorized by state statutes. To the extent of conflict
between any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any other
ordinance of the town, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
town.
   CLERK. The court clerk as appointed by the town, including any deputy or
member of the office staff of the Clerk-Treasurer while performing duties of
the Clerk’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the town.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any Acting Judge or
Alternate Judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The Second Judicial District of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2)
§ 33.03 JURISDICTION.
   The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the town is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-3)
COURT PROCEDURE
§ 33.15 CHANGE OF VENUE; DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.
   (A)   No change of venue shall be allowed from the Municipal Court, but the
Judge of the Municipal Court may be disqualified under the same terms and
conditions as are now provided by law for courts of record.
   (B)   In the event of an ethical disqualification by a Municipal Judge, the
senior Municipal Judge may appoint, on a case by case basis, a sitting
Municipal Judge in another municipality within the same county or an adjacent
county to act as a special judge for the purposes of hearing the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-5)
§ 33.16 CHIEF OF POLICE AS PRINCIPAL OFFICER OF COURT.
   All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his or her
official title, to the Chief of Police, who shall be the Principal Officer of
the court.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-6)
§ 33.17 CLERK OF THE COURT.
   (A)   Designation. The Town Clerk-Treasurer or a deputy designated by him or
her shall be the clerk of the court.
   (B)   Duties. The clerk shall:
      (1)   Assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparing writs, processes and other papers;
      (2)   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the court;
      (3)   Enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of
the court;
      (4)   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the Judge shall direct; and
      (5)   Receive any receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of
money payable to the court and as may be established by the court or the Town
Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Monies to General Fund. The clerk of the court shall pay to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town all monies so received by him or her, except such special
deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by him or her for special
purposes. All monies paid to the Clerk-Treasurer shall be placed in the General
Fund of the town, or in such other fund as the Board of Trustees may direct.
   (D)   Bond. The clerk of the court shall give bond in such sum as set by the
Board of Trustees, in the form provided by state law. When executed, the bond
shall be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval. When approved, it
shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and retained in the municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-7)
§ 33.18 TOWN ATTORNEY; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Attorney, or his or her duly designated assistant, may be the
prosecuting officer of the court. He or she may prosecute, in his or her
discretion, all alleged violations of the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   He or she shall be authorized, in his or her discretion, to prosecute
and resist appeals, proceedings in error and review from this court to any
other courts of the state, and to represent the town in all proceedings arising
out of matters in this court.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-8)
§ 33.19 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU; PAYMENT OF FINES.
   (A)   Bureau established. A Traffic Violations Bureau is established as a
division of the office of the clerk of the court, to be administered by the
clerk or by subordinates designated for that purpose.
   (B)   Payment of fine. Persons who are cited for violation of one of the
traffic ordinances of the town, other than a driver’s license offense, or an
offense punishable by more than $200, may elect to pay a fine in the Violations
Bureau according to a schedule of fines prescribed from time to time by the
Town Board of Trustees. The payment shall constitute a final determination of
the cause against the defendant.
   (C)   Failure to pay fine. The court may adopt rules to carry into effect
this section. If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this section
fails so to do, prosecution shall proceed under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-9)
§ 33.20 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees may establish a minimum fine schedule. The
minimum fine schedule, when established, shall provide for a minimum amount
which a person may pay upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the listed
offenses.
   (B)   The minimum fine schedule shall include fine, court costs and any
assessments set by state law within the specified amount. Upon plea of guilty
or nolo contendere and payment of the required minimum fine prior to the date
scheduled for court appearance, no further court appearance shall be required.
The Judge may authorize the court clerk to accept pleas of guilty and nolo
contendere where the amount of the minimum fine is paid at the time of such
plea and prior to the scheduled court appearance date.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-10)
§ 33.21 PROSECUTIONS; FILING OF COMPLAINT; FEES.
   (A)   Initiation of prosecutions. All prosecutions for violation of
ordinances of the town shall be styled “The Town of Gage, Oklahoma vs. (naming
defendant or defendants).” Except as provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall
be initiated by the filing of a written complaint, subscribed and verified by
the person making the complaint and setting forth concisely the offense
charged.
   (B)   Prosecution of actions. There is no duty on the part of the town or
any of its officers or employees to formally prosecute actions in the court. In
the absence of a prosecuting officer, the Judge shall proceed with the case and
hear evidence and examine witnesses in such manner as he or she may deem
necessary to effect justice.
   (C)   Deposit of court costs. Any person, except a police officer or other
employee of the town, filing a criminal offense complaint in the Municipal
Court shall deposit with the clerk of the court, unless waived by order of the
court, the court cost fee as provided in this chapter. The court costs so
deposited by such a complainant shall be refunded to the complainant or person
depositing same upon conviction or acquittal of the defendant; the court costs
shall not be refunded if the charges are dismissed at the request of the
complainant who made the deposit because the complainant fails or refuses to
appear in court to testify or aid in the prosecution of the charge filed by
such complainant.
   (D)   Defects regarding complaints. All defects in the form or substance
apparent on the face of a complaint charging a violation of an ordinance of the
town, and being grounds for motion or demur, may only be raised by an accused
in writing and prior to trial.
   (E)   Amendment of complaint. A complaint may be amended in matter of
substance or form at any time before the defendant pleads, without leave, and
may be amended after plea or order of the court where the same can be done
without material prejudice to the rights of the defendant. No amendment shall
cause any delay of the trial, unless good cause is shown by affidavit.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-11)
§ 33.22 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; CITATION ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Release of arrested resident.
      (1)   If a resident of the town is arrested by a law enforcement officer
for the violation of any traffic ordinance for which other provisions of this
chapter do not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a non-traffic
ordinance, the officer shall immediately release the person if the person
acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it. However, the arresting
officer need not release the person if it reasonably appears to the officer
that the person may cause injury to himself, herself or others, or damage to
property, if released, that the person will not appear in response to the
citation, or the person is arrested for an offense against a person or
property.
      (2)   If the person fails to appear in response to the citation, a
warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, and his or her appearance shall
be compelled.
      (3)   If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign
a citation as provided in division (A)(1) above, he or she shall be admitted to
bail either before or after arraignment, or shall be released on personal
recognizance.
   (B)   Release of arrested nonresident. If a nonresident of the town is
arrested by a law enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for
which §
33.23 does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be admitted to bail
either before or after arraignment.
   (C)   Parking violation; citation placed on vehicle. If the alleged offense
be a violation of an ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of
vehicles, including any regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the
operator is not present, the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a
place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the operator, a citation
conforming substantially to that prescribed in this section, with such
variation as the circumstances require, the operator of this vehicle shall be
under the same obligation to respond to the citation as if it had been issued
to him or her personally under division (A)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-12) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.23 TRAFFIC BAIL BOND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Release by officer. In addition to other provisions of law for posting
bail, any person, whether a resident of this state or a nonresident, who is
arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a
state traffic law or municipal traffic ordinance, shall be released by the
arresting officer upon personal recognizance if:
      (1)   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a party to the nonresident violator compact, or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      (2)   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      (3)   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires
immediate medical treatment as determined by a treating physician; and
      (4)   The violation does not constitute:
         (a)   A felony;
         (b)   Negligent homicide;
         (c)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires immediate
medical treatment as determined by a treating physician;
         (d)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         (e)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver’s license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         (f)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant; or
         (g)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in divisions
(A)(4)(a) through (A)(4)(f) above.
   (B)   Duties of arresting officer.
      (1)   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in division (A) above, then the arresting officer
shall:
         (a)   Designate the traffic charge;
         (b)   Record information from the arrested person’s driver’s license
on the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver’s license, driver’
         (c)   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         (d)   Record the date and time on the citation on which, or before
which, the arrested person promises to contact, pay or appear at the court, as
applicable to the court; and
         (e)   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear
as provided for in the citation.
      (2)   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person’s driving privilege and driver’s license
in this state, or in the nonresident’s home state pursuant to the nonresident
violator compact.
   (C)   Compliance with state law. Procedures for arraignment, continuances
and scheduling, timely appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting
bail, payment of fines and costs, issuance of arrest warrants and requests for
suspension of driver’s license shall be as required in state law, 22 O.S. §§
1115.1 through 1115.5.
   (D)   Plea by defendant. A defendant released upon personal recognizance may
elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at
any time before he or she is required to appear for arraignment by indicating
such plea on the copy of the citation furnished to him or her or on a legible
copy thereof, together with the date of the plea and his or her signature. The
defendant shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine and costs
to the court clerk. The defendant shall not use currency for payment by mail.
If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere as provided
for in this division (D), such plea shall be accepted by the court, and the
amount of the fine and costs shall be as prescribed by ordinance for the
violation charged or as prescribed by the court.
   (E)   Failure to respond or appear; notify state.
      (1)   If, pursuant to the provisions of division (D) above, the defendant
does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere and fails to
timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for the arrest of
the defendant and the municipal or District Court clerk, within 120 calendar
days from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer, shall
notify the State Department of Public Safety that:
         (a)   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         (b)   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         (c)   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any
other arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         (d)   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      (2)   The court clerk shall request the State Department of Public Safety
to either suspend the defendant’s driving privileges and driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in this state, or notify the defendant’s home state and
request suspension of the defendant’s driving privilege and driver’s license in
accordance with the provisions of the nonresident violator compact. Such notice
and request shall be on a form approved or furnished by the State Department of
Public Safety. The court clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided for in this division (E)(2) if, with respect to such charges:
         (a)   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed or otherwise settled the case;
         (b)   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         (c)   The violation relates to parking or standing; or
         (d)   A period of 120 calendar days or more has elapsed from the date
the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   (F)   Record of driver’s license suspension requests to state. The court
clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driving privilege and
driver’s license suspension submitted to the State Department of Public Safety
pursuant to the provisions of this section. When the court or court clerk
receives appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the
citation, makes other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes the
case, the court clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the
defendant personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation, or at
such other address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court or
court clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on
the citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator
compact, and shall in all other cases notify the State Department of Public
Safety of the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the State Department of Public Safety.
Provided, however, the court or court clerk’s failure to furnish such proof or
notice in the manner provided for in this division (F) shall in no event create
any civil liability upon the court, the court clerk, the state or any political
subdivision thereof, or any state department or agency, or any employee
thereof, but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled thereto
upon request.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-13)
§ 33.24 ISSUANCE OF SUMMONS; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   Issuance of summons. Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation
of an ordinance, the Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of
arrest, or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has
been arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming
the person charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence, if
known, stating the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or
her notice to answer the charge in the court on a day certain, containing a
provision for the official return of the summons, and including such other
pertinent information as may be necessary.
   (B)   Failure to answer summons; warrant for arrest. The summons shall be
served by delivering a copy to the defendant personally or by certified mail.
If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons within the prescribed
period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as provided by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-14) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.25 FAILURE TO APPEAR; BOND FORFEITURE; BENCH WARRANT.
   (A)   Failure to appear; action by Judge. If, without sufficient excuse, a
defendant fails to appear according to the terms or conditions of his or her
bond, either for hearing, arraignment, trial or judgment, or upon any other
occasion when his or her presence in court or before the Judge may be lawfully
required or ordered, the Judge may direct that fact to be entered upon the
court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to be forfeited. The Judge may also
order a bench warrant to be issued for the defendant as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Forfeiture certified to District Court. The Judge, without advancing
court costs, may also cause the forfeiture to be certified to the District
Court of the county, where it shall be entered upon the judgment docket and
shall have the full force and effect of a District Court judgment. At such time
as the forfeiture is entered upon the District Court judgment docket, the
District Court clerk shall proceed in accordance with the provisions of 59 O.S.
§§ 1332, 1333 and 1335, and a surety shall have all remedies available under
the provisions of 22 O.S. § 1108, and 59 O.S. §§ 1301 through 1340.
   (C)   Collection of court costs. Court costs shall be collectible from the
proceeds of the bond.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-15)
§ 33.26 COMPLAINANT; WITNESSES; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   No person, having signed a complaint in the Municipal Court of the town
alleging the violation of an ordinance or any other person in response to an
order of the court, shall fail, refuse or neglect to appear for the purpose of
testifying as a witness at the trial of the case, after having been notified of
the time, date and place at which the case is set for trial.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-16)
§ 33.27 ISSUANCE OF WARRANT.
   (A)   Warrant of arrest form. Except as otherwise provided by town
ordinance, upon the filing of a complaint approved by endorsement by the Town
Attorney or by the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in
substantially the following form:
 
The Town of Gage, Oklahoma to the Police Chief of the Town of Gage, Oklahoma. Complaint upon
oath this day has been made by (naming complainant) that the offense of (naming the offense
in general terms) has been committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are
commanded therefore forthwith to arrest the above named (name of defendant) and bring
(insert him, her or them, as appropriate) before me, at (naming the place).
      Witness my hand this        day of             , 20      .
                                              
          Judge of the Municipal
          Court of Gage, Oklahoma
 
   (B)   Execution of warrant. It is the duty of the Police Chief personally,
or through a duly constituted member of the town police force, or through any
other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute the warrant as promptly
as possible.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-17)
§ 33.28 BAIL OR BOND PROCEDURES; BOND SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Release upon bail or bond. Upon arrest, or upon appearance without
arrest in response to citation or summons, or at any time before trial, before
or after arraignment, the defendant may be eligible to be released upon giving
bail for his or her appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this
chapter or the Judge, who shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for the
receipt of bail and release of the defendant. In case of arrests made at night
or under other conditions of emergency or when the Judge is not available, the
rules shall authorize the Chief of Police, or his or her designated
representative, to accept a temporary cash bond of not less than $10 nor more
than the maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for the offense
charged. The Judge or Police Chief is authorized, subject to conditions as may
be prescribed by the Judge, to release a resident of the town on personal
recognizance.
   (B)   Bail bond schedule. The town’s bail bond schedule setting forth
specific offenses and bail bond amounts and procedures therefor, as amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-18)
§ 33.29 ARRAIGNMENT.
   Upon making his or her appearance before the court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The Judge or the Town Attorney shall read the complaint to the
defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights, including the right of
trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him
or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads
guilty, the court may proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the
matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is
not for jury trial, the court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for
hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-19)
§ 33.30 TRIAL BY JURY.
   (A)   Postponement of trial. Before trial commences, either party, upon good
cause shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   Defendant’s presence required. The defendant must be present in person
at the trial of his or her case in court.
   (C)   Procedure for trials not within scope of chapter. In all trials, as to
matters not covered in this chapter, by the statutes relating to municipal
courts, or by rules duly promulgated by the State Supreme Court, the procedure
applicable in trials of misdemeanors in the District Courts shall apply to the
extent that they can be made effective.
   (D)   Right to trial by jury, waiver.
      (1)   In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances punishable by fine
of more than $500, or by imprisonment, or by both fine and imprisonment, trial
shall be by jury unless waived by the defendant. If trial by jury is waived,
trial shall be by the court. At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked
whether he or she demands or waives trial by jury. His or her election shall be
recorded in the minutes of the arraignment and entered on the docket of the
court respecting proceedings in the case.
      (2)   An election waiving jury trial, made at arraignment, may be changed
by the defendant at any time prior to the day for which trial by the court is
set. An election demanding jury trial may be changed at any time prior to the
commencement of proceedings to impanel the jury for the trial; but if that
change occurs after the case has been set for jury trial, it may not thereafter
be re-changed so as again to demand trial by jury.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-20)
§ 33.31 JUDGMENT AFTER TRIAL.
   (A)   Judgment. At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered without
undue delay by the Judge, who shall cause it to be entered in his or her
docket.
      (1)   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
      (2)   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the
court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
      (3)   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may direct also that he or
she be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied, as provided in §
33.33.
   (B)   Judgment of imprisonment. If, after conviction, judgment of
imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be
delivered to the Chief of Police, the Sheriff of the county, or other
appropriate officer. Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution of the
sentence.
   (C)   Suspension or deferment of judgment, powers.
      (1)   The Judge of the court, in imposing a judgment and sentence, at his
or her discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce or suspend, or defer the
imposition of, such sentence, or any part thereof, and to authorize the person
to be released upon his or her own recognizance for a period not to exceed six
months from the date of the sentence, under such terms or conditions as the
Judge may specify. The Judge may, with the consent of the defendant, defer
further proceedings, after a verdict, finding or plea of guilty, but before
passing a judgment of guilt and imposing a fine, and place the defendant on
probation for a period not to exceed six months, under such terms and
conditions as prescribed by the court, which may include, but not be limited
to, work on the streets, parks or other town owned or maintained projects, with
proper supervision.
      (2)   A defendant is not entitled to a deferred sentence if the defendant
has been previously convicted of a felony.
      (3)   Upon a finding of the court that the conditions of release have
been violated, the Municipal Judge may enter a judgment of guilty and may cause
a warrant to be issued for the defendant.
      (4)   Upon the issuance of the warrant or judgment of guilty being
entered, the person shall be delivered forthwith to the place of confinement to
which he or she is sentenced and shall serve out the full term or pay the full
fine for which he or she was originally sentenced, as may be directed by the
Judge.
      (5)   The Judge may continue or delay imposing a judgment and sentence
for a period of time not to exceed six months from the date of the sentence. At
the expiration of such period, the Judge may allow the Town Attorney to amend
the charge to a lesser offense.
      (6)   If a deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative fee of $100
may be imposed as costs in the case. The court may make payment of the fee a
condition of granting or continuing the imposition of a sentence, if the
defendant is able to pay.
      (7)   The court may also require restitution and, in the event there was
damage done to public or private property during the commission of the offense,
the court may require the defendant to repair or replace such damaged property
as a condition to a deferred sentence as may be directed by the court.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-21)
§ 33.32 PAYMENT OF COSTS BY DEFENDANT.
   If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the court shall tax the
costs to the defendant in the sum of $15, or the maximum sum permitted by state
law, whichever is greater, plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses,
all of which the defendant shall pay, in addition to any fine that may be
imposed.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-22)
§ 33.33 ENFORCEMENT OF FINES AND COSTS; IMPRISONMENT; WORK.
   (A)   Imprisonment to satisfy fine. If a defendant who is financially able
refuses or neglects to pay a fine or costs, or both, payment may be enforced by
imprisonment until the same shall be satisfied at the rate of $25 per day.
   (B)   Inability to pay; costs certified to District Court. If the defendant
is without means to pay the fine or costs, the Municipal Judge may direct the
total amount due to be entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to
the District Court where it shall be entered upon the District Court docket and
shall have the full force and effect of a District Court judgment. Thereupon,
the same remedies shall be available for the enforcement as are available to
any other judgment creditor.
   (C)   Work on community projects. All prisoners confined to jail on
conviction or on plea of guilty may be compelled, if their health permits, to
work on community projects, the public streets, avenues or ways, public
buildings or other public premises or property. For each day of such work, the
prisoner or defendant shall be credited for two days of imprisonment toward any
fine or costs, or witness or juror fees or mileage until the same are
satisfied. The town shall direct where the work shall be performed. The
appropriate officer shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the Chief
of Police shall make provision therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-23)
§ 33.34 SAME OFFENSE PUNISHABLE BY DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF CODE.
   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different sections of this code, the Town Attorney may elect under which to
proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person
for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-24)
§ 33.35 CONTEMPT OF COURT.
   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the court may be
enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt committed as to
him or her while holding court, or committed against process issued by him or
her, in the same manner and to the same extent as the District Courts of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-25)
§ 33.36 PENALTY ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Conviction defined. For the purpose of this section, CONVICTION means
any final adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment.
   (B)   Payment of penalties and additional charges. Any person convicted of
an offense punishable by a fine of $10 or more, or by imprisonment, excluding
parking and standing violations, or forfeiting bond when charged with such an
offense under this division (B), shall pay a sum as set by state law as a
separate penalty assessment for law enforcement training, and as a separate
fingerprinting fee, which shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for,
any and all fines and penalties and costs otherwise provided for such offense.
The court shall provide for separate bail for the assessments; however, a
defendant admitted to bail on an undertaking by a surety may include the amount
of the assessment in the undertaking.
   (C)   Collection and disposition of monies. Upon conviction or bond
forfeiture, the court shall collect the assessment and deposit the monies for
payment as required by state law.
   (D)   Various funds deposited with state. At the end of every quarter, the
town shall deposit with the State Treasury the funds deposited in the law
enforcement training funds and the AFIS (Automated Fingerprint Identification
System) fund as required by law. The court clerk shall also furnish to the
State Treasury reports required on the funds collected and penalty assessments
imposed each quarter.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-26)
§ 33.37 FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   Civil action allowed. All fines shall be recoverable by civil action
before any court of competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method
provided by law.
   (B)   Failure to pay fine; penalties.
      (1)   The failure to pay a fine levied pursuant to this code shall
constitute a separate offense against the town, subject to a fine as provided
in §
10.99.
      (2)   If a fine is not paid by the defendant, the fine may be collected
by committing the defendant to the town jail, where he or she shall remain
until his or her fine and any costs assessed against him or her are discharged,
either by payment or by confinement in jail, or by working in accordance with
other provisions of this code or state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-27)
JUDGE
§ 33.50 OFFICE CREATED; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be one Judge of the court.
   (B)   A Judge need not be a licensed attorney at law, but, if not, he or she
must be a resident of the town of the age of 21 years or older, possessed of
good moral character. A Judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the
practice of law in other courts, but he or she shall not accept employment
inconsistent with his or her duties as Judge, or arising out of facts which
give rise to or are connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the court,
pending therein, or which might become subject of proceedings therein.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)
§ 33.51 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The official term of the Judge shall be two years, expiring in each odd
numbered year.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)
§ 33.52 APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE; ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   Judges shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Town
Board of Trustees. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the
Town Board of Trustees at the next to the last regularly scheduled meeting,
prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be
acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The Town Board of Trustees
may decide upon the proposed appointment by a majority vote of all the members
of the Board of Trustees. Failure of decision upon a proposed appointment shall
not prevent action thereon at a later regularly scheduled meeting of the Board
of Trustees unless the Mayor, in writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
   (B)   There may be appointed for each Judge of the court an Alternate Judge
possessed of the same qualifications as the Judge. His or her appointment shall
be for the same term and made in the same manner as the Judge. He or she shall
sit as Judge of the court in any case if the Judge is absent from court, unable
to act as Judge or disqualified from acting as Judge in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)
§ 33.53 ACTING JUDGE.
   If at any time there is no Judge duly appointed and qualified available to
sit as Judge, a person possessing the qualifications required by this chapter
for the Judge shall be appointed as Acting Judge. The Acting Judge shall
preside as Acting Judge over the court in the disposition of pending matters
until such time as a Judge or Alternate Judge shall be available.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)
§ 33.54 COMPENSATION.
   A Judge shall receive such salary as may be established and shall be paid as
established by the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)
§ 33.55 REMOVAL OF JUDGE FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the Board of
Trustees for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of the state
for the removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted
by the filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by the Mayor, or 25 or more qualified electors of the town. In the latter
event, verification may be executed by one or more of the petitioners.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall set a date for hearing the matter and
shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the Judge at least ten days before the hearing. At the hearing,
the Judge shall be entitled to representation by counsel, to present testimony
and to cross-examine the witnesses against him or her and to have all evidence
against him or her presented in open hearing.
   (C)   So far as can be made applicable, the provisions of the State
Administrative Procedure Act, being 75 O.S. §§ 250 et seq., governing
individual proceedings, 75 O.S. §§ 309 through 317, and any amendments or
additions thereto in effect at the time of the hearing, shall govern removal
proceedings hereunder.
   (D)   Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes by a
majority of all members of the Board of Trustees in favor of such removal.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)
§ 33.56 VACANCY.
   (A)   A vacancy in the office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      (1)   Dies;
      (2)   Resigns;
      (3)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      (4)   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally in
judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term, upon the same
procedure as an original appointment is made.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)
§ 33.57 AUTHORITY TO PRESCRIBE RULES.
   The Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and
with the ordinances of the town, for the proper conduct of the business of the
court.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who has been duly served with a summons or traffic citation and
who has signed a written promise to appear in court as directed in the summons
or the citation, or as subsequently directed by the court, and who fails to
appear pursuant to his or her written promise, or as directed by the court,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense, which shall be punishable as provided in
§
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-14)
CHAPTER 34: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Department created
   
34.02   Duties
   
34.03   Officers
   
34.04   Unclaimed property
Fire Department
   
34.15   Fire Department; duties
   
34.16   Volunteer Department
   
34.17   Fire Chief
   
34.18   Assistant Chief
   
34.19   Company officers
   
34.20   Secretary-Treasurer
   
34.21   Membership; new members
   
34.22   Bylaws
   
34.23   Authority of firefighters at fires
   
34.24   Right of entry
   
34.25   Rules and regulations
   
34.26   Social officers
   
34.27   Fire equipment
   
34.28   Calls outside town limits
Civil Defense
   
34.40   Purpose
   
34.41   Civil Defense Department
   
34.42   Responsibilities and duties of Director, deputies
   
34.43   Emergency powers of organization
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of
Police, or the Police Chief, appointed by the Town Board of Trustees and
removable by the Town Board. The Police Chief is an officer of the town and has
supervision and control of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 34.02 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Police Department:
   (A)   To apprehend and arrest on view or on warrant and bring to justice
violators of the ordinances of the town;
   (B)   To suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come
to its knowledge, and generally to keep the peace;
   (C)   To serve warrants, writs, executions and other processes properly
directed and delivered to it;
   (D)   To apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state laws as
provided by law and to turn them over to proper authorities; and
   (E)   In all respects to perform all duties pertaining to the offices of
police officers.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 34.03 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointment. Police officers shall be appointed by the Police Chief
subject to approval of the Board of Trustees of the town.
   (B)   Duties generally. Police officers shall perform such duties as shall
be required of them by the Police Chief, the town ordinances, federal, state or
county laws or regulations, and other actions required in the maintenance of
good order and public peace.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 34.04 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Complete record required.
      (1)   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police
officer, which has been found or stolen, or taken off the person or out of the
possession of any prisoner or person suspected of or charged with being a
criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto,
shall be, by the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge
of the Police Chief.
      (2)   The Police Chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that
purpose, make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, and the name of the person from whom it
was taken, and the place where it was found. The record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser and the amount for which it was sold.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, POLICE CHIEF means the Police
Chief or his or her designee.
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed property.
      (1)   The Police Chief is authorized to sell personal property, other
than animals, money or legal tender of the United States, except as provided in
division (B)(3) below, which has come into his or her possession in any manner,
if:
         (a)   The owner of the personal property is unknown or has not claimed
the property;
         (b)   The property has been in the custody of the Police Chief for at
least 90 days; or
         (c)   The property or any part thereof is no longer needed to be held
as evidence or for any other purpose in connection with any litigation.
      (2)   Any owner, to recover or claim property, must be able to
satisfactorily prove ownership to the Police Chief.
      (3)   Any property found by a person other than public official which
shall be delivered to any police officer for identification and registration,
if not claimed or identified within 30 days, shall, within ten additional days
thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him or her, and a record
of such disposal made thereof. However, in all other cases, only property in
which the finder relinquishes any future claim to its ownership will be stored
in the town police property room.
      (4)   The Police Chief shall file an application in the District Court of
the county requesting the authority of the court to conduct a sale of such
personal property or money or legal tender which has a fair market value of
more than its face value. The Police Chief shall attach to his or her
application a list describing such property or money or legal tender, including
any identifying numbers and marks, the date the property or money or legal
tender came into his or her possession, and the name of the owner and his or
her address, if known. The court shall set the application for hearing not less
than ten days nor more than 20 days after filing of the application.
      (5)   In any instance where the property has an actual or apparent value
of more than $250, at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing, notice
of the hearing shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid to each owner
at his or her address as listed in the application. If the owner of any
property with an actual or apparent value exceeding $500 is unable to be served
notice by first class mail, notice shall be provided by one publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town. The notice shall contain a brief
description of the property or money or legal tender of the owner and the place
and date of the hearing. The notice shall be posted at the assigned place for
the posting of town notices, and at two other public places in the town.
      (6)   If no owner appears and establishes ownership to the property or
money or legal tender at the hearing, the court shall enter an order
authorizing the Police Chief to sell the personal property or money or legal
tender for cash to the highest bidder at an auction sale, after at least five
days’ notice of the sale has been published. The Police Chief shall thereafter
make a return of the sale, and the order of the court confirming the sale shall
vest title to the property or money or legal tender in the purchaser. The money
received from the sale of the personal property or money or legal tender shall
be deposited in the town General Fund after first paying court costs and other
expenses.
      (7)   All monies or legal tender of the United States, except as provided
in division (B)(3) above, which has come into the possession of the Police
Chief pursuant to the circumstances provided for in division (B)(1) above,
shall be transferred by the Police Chief to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for
deposit in the General Fund. Prior to any such transfer, the Police Chief shall
file an application in the District Court requesting the court to enter an
order authorizing him or her to transfer the money for deposit in the General
Fund. The application shall describe the money or legal tender, any serial
numbers, the date the same came into his or her possession, and the name of the
owner and his or her address, if known. Upon filing the application which may
be joined with an application as described in division (B)(4) above, a hearing
shall be set not less than ten days nor more than 20 days from the filing of
the application. Notice of the hearing shall be given as provided for in
division (B)(4) above. The notice shall state that, upon failure of anyone to
appear to prove ownership to the money or legal tender, the court shall order
the same to be deposited in the General Fund. The notice may be combined with a
notice to sell personal property as provided for in division (B)(4) above. If
no one appears to claim and prove ownership of the money or legal tender at the
hearing, the court shall order the same to be transferred to the General Fund
as provided in this division (B)(7).
      (8)   The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to any
dangerous or deadly weapons, narcotic or poisonous drugs, explosives, or any
property of any kind or character, which the possession of is prohibited by
law, nor to any property for which a specific procedure is otherwise
established by law, ordinance or proper order. By order of the trial court, any
such property filed as an exhibit or held by the town shall be destroyed, or
sold or disposed of pursuant to the conditions prescribed in such order.
      (9)   Property authorized to be destroyed herein or by state or other
law, or which cannot be sold or used by the town, shall be destroyed on order
of the Police Chief. The destruction of personal property must be witnessed by
at least three members of the Police Department who must sign a certificate of
destruction listing all property destroyed, a general description of same, the
date, time, place and manner of such destruction.
   (C)   Seized property.
      (1)   Gambling, report and disposition.
         (a)   If any personal property used for the purpose of violating any
of the gambling laws of this state shall be seized by any officer or person
with or without a search warrant, such officer or person is hereby required,
within five days of the seizure, to make a written report under oath and file
the same with the County Clerk, which report shall in detail state the name of
the officer or person making the seizure, the place where seized and an
inventory of the property or articles so taken into possession.
         (b)   Within five days after seizing such property, the officer shall
deliver the property to the Sheriff of the county and take the Sheriff’s
receipt therefor, in duplicate, and the Sheriff shall retain the same and all
thereof until the same shall be destroyed pursuant to the orders of the court.
         (c)   In computing the time, five days, Sundays and holidays shall be
excluded and not counted.
         (d)   A duplicate copy of the receipt shall be filed with the County
Clerk, who shall keep a record of same. However, the Sheriff and his or her
deputies shall be required to make the affidavit and issue the receipt and
otherwise comply with the provisions of this section. The Sheriff shall be
liable on his or her bond for the safekeeping of all such property so turned
over to him or her under the provisions of this division (C)(1).
      (2)   Alcoholic beverages, disposition. If town police officers seize any
apparatus, equipment, vehicle or instrumentality used for, or intended for use
in, manufacturing or transporting any alcoholic beverages in violation of the
state alcoholic beverage control laws, or any alcoholic beverages possessed,
sold, transported, manufactured, kept or stored in violation of the state
alcoholic beverage control laws, and if the court finds from a preponderance of
the evidence that the property seized was lawfully subject to seizure, then the
court shall render judgment accordingly and order the property forfeited to the
town in which the seizure of the property took place. Such seized property
shall be sold by the town, after giving ten days’ notice by one publication in
a legal newspaper of the county at least ten days before such sale. Appeal from
such an order may be taken as in civil cases. When such property is sold under
the provisions of this division (C)(2), the proceeds thereof shall be
distributed as follows:
         (a)   First, to the payment of the costs of the case in which the
order of forfeiture was made and the actual expenses of preserving the
property; and
         (b)   Second, the remainder shall be deposited with the town.
   (D)   Property of deceased person. The personal property of a deceased
person shall be delivered only to the next of kin of such person or to the
legally appointed representative of his or her estate. If the personal property
is claimed by the legally appointed representative of the estate of the
deceased, a certified copy of the order of the District Court appointing such
person shall be deemed sufficient authority to support the claim. If the
personal property is claimed by the next of kin, the claimant shall furnish an
affidavit to the effect that he or she is the person entitled to possession of
the property; the affidavit shall be deemed sufficient authority to support the
claim. If personal property of a deceased person remains unclaimed for a period
of 90 days, it shall be disposed of in the appropriate manner provided in this
section.
   (E)   Exchange of unclaimed or confiscated weapons.
      (1)   Unclaimed or confiscated weapons which have been in the possession
of the Police Department for 120 days or more may be traded by the Police Chief
or his or her designee, for new weapons for use by the Police Department. The
unclaimed or confiscated weapons may only be traded to such gun dealers who
have complied with applicable state and federal regulations concerning firearms
and, in the opinion of the Police Chief or his or her designee, are reputable.
      (2)   In trading such unclaimed or confiscated weapons, the Police Chief
or his or her designee shall advertise for bids for such trade. Such
advertisement for bids shall be done in accordance with the prevailing and
established bid procedure as formulated by the purchasing entity of the town.
      (3)   The value of such unclaimed and confiscated weapons as hereinabove
discussed shall in all cases be determined by the fair market value of the new
weapons received in such trade.
   (F)   Recovery by owner. If any property is sold as herein provided, and the
owner thereof takes and recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the
amount paid therefor shall be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim
being submitted and approved by the Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.15 FIRE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   Department created; Chief.
      (1)   There is a Fire Department of the town, the head of which is the
Chief of the Fire Department.
      (2)   The Department shall consist of a Chief, two Assistant Chiefs and
officers as the Chief and Board of Trustees may deem necessary for the
effective operation of the Department.
   (B)   Duties. It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others:
      (1)   To extinguish fires;
      (2)   To rescue persons endangered by fire;
      (3)   To resuscitate, and to administer first aid to, persons injured in
or about burning structures on elsewhere in case of an emergency;
      (4)   To promote fire prevention; and
      (5)   Unless otherwise provided, to enforce all ordinances relating to
fires, fire prevention and safety of persons from fire in public and private
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
§ 34.16 VOLUNTEER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Voluntary; number of members. The Fire Department of the town is a
Volunteer Department which has in its service not more than two full-time
salaried firefighters and not less than six nor more than 20 volunteer
firefighters.
   (B)   Volunteer firefighter described. For the purpose of this subchapter, a
VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER is considered as one who is enrolled as a member of the
Fire Department and who serves in the capacity without receiving a regular
salary.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)
§ 34.17 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Administrative head of Department; appointment; qualifications.
      (1)   The Chief shall be the administrative head of the Department,
subject to the laws of the state and federal government, ordinances of the town
and the rules and regulations adopted in this subchapter.
      (2)   The Chief shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees for an
indefinite period of time, and his or her tenure of office shall depend upon
his or her good conduct and efficiency.
      (3)   The Chief shall be technically qualified by training and experience
and shall have the ability to command members and hold their respect and
confidence.
      (4)   He or she shall be removed only for just cause and after a public
hearing before the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Accountability; duties. The Chief shall be held accountable to the
Board of Trustees only. All other Department and company officers shall be
accountable to the Chief only. The Chief shall have the following duties.
      (1)   The Chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the Department, the training of members and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him or her. He or she shall have
supervision and control of the Fire Department, subject to the supervision and
control of the Town Board.
      (2)   The Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
Department the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year.
      (3)   The Chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members.
      (4)   The Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct
the officers and members in the performance of their duties.
      (5)   The Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the Department.
      (6)   The Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify
proper authorities and secure the preservation of all possible evidence for
future use in the case.
      (7)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
Department and shall make reports to the Town Board as he or she may require.
The Chief shall keep the town informed regarding the Fire Department and its
needs.
      (8)   The Chief shall see that the appropriate activity report forms are
filed with the office of the State Fire Marshal in Oklahoma City as required.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3)
§ 34.18 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   (A)   Elected from members; appointment. The Assistant Chief shall be
elected from among the members of the Department and be appointed by the Chief,
with approval of the Town Board.
   (B)   Duties. In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on duty shall
command the Department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with
the full powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4)
§ 34.19 COMPANY OFFICERS.
   Company officers shall be selected by the Chief based on the following
criteria:
   (A)   Knowledge of firefighting;
   (B)   Leadership ability; and
   (C)   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5)
§ 34.20 SECRETARY-TREASURER.
   (A)   Election by members; approval. One member elected by the members of
the Fire Department, subject to approval of the Chief, shall be a Secretary-
Treasurer.
   (B)   Duties. His or her duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting; and
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-6)
§ 34.21 MEMBERSHIP; NEW MEMBERS.
   (A)   Appointment; qualifications.
      (1)   Membership of the Department shall consist of such persons as may
be appointed by the Chief and approved by the Town Board of Trustees and shall
be persons residing within the current Fire District (attached to the ordinance
codified herein) of the town. This is a nonexempt position performing fire
suppression, prevention and life safety duties with the Town Fire Department.
      (2)   Determination of whether candidates for appointment are capable of
performing their duties shall be made by the Chief after a physical agility
test and other preappointment qualifications have been made in a manner
prescribed by the Chief and approved by the Town Board.
   (B)   Probation of new members; approval. New members of the Department
shall, on approval of the Chief of the Fire Department, be on probation for one
year after their appointment, and eligible for enrollment in any retirement
system of the town after six months following their appointment. Upon
completion of their probation period, new members must be approved by the
majority of the other members of the Fire Department, the Chief and the Town
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-7) (Ord. 189, passed 9-28-2015)
§ 34.22 BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the Department shall include the following.
   (A)   All Volunteer Fire Department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   (C)   There shall be at least one regular business meeting of the members
each month.
   (D)   Any member having two unexcused absences in succession or three
unexcused absences in a period of three months will be expelled from the Fire
Department rolls.
   (E)   Any member leaving the town for an extended period of time is required
to notify the Chief.
   (F)   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for him or her
will be expelled.
   (G)   Any member of the Fire Department may be expelled from the rolls for
the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department;
      (5)   Conviction of a felony; or
      (6)   By a majority vote of the members of the company and approval of
the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-8)
§ 34.23 AUTHORITY OF FIREFIGHTERS AT FIRES.
   The Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief or other Fire Department officers in
charge shall have complete charge and control at all fires. Fire orders shall
be obeyed. The Chief or his or her officers may prescribe limits in the
vicinity of a fire which no persons except those residing or owning property
therein shall be permitted to enter except on the order of the officer in
command. Police officers may aid in carrying into effect the provisions of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-9)
§ 34.24 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Chief of the Fire Department and his or her designee may at all
reasonable hours enter any building or premises within his or her jurisdiction
for the purpose of making any inspection or investigation which, under the
provisions of this subchapter and other provisions of this code, he or she may
deem necessary to make.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-10)
§ 34.25 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change
regulations relating to the Fire Department, its organization, operation and
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-11)
§ 34.26 SOCIAL OFFICERS.
   The Department may elect a President, Vice President, Secretary or
Treasurer, to be known as social officers. Such officers may be elected in any
manner and for any term the members may decide upon, and their duties shall be
to arrange for and manage any or all social functions sponsored by the members.
The functions and duties of the social officers shall in no way interfere with
those of the regular Department officers who are charged with responsibility
for all fire service activities of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-12)
§ 34.27 FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Required equipment. The Department shall be equipped with such
apparatus and other equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain
its efficiency and properly protect life and property from fire.
   (B)   Recommendations. Recommendations of apparatus and equipment needed
shall be made by the Chief, purchased after approval as other town purchases.
   (C)   Housing of equipment. All equipment of the Department shall be safely
and conveniently housed in such places as may be designated by the Town Board.
   (D)   Turning in alarms; notifying members. Suitable arrangements and
equipment shall be provided for people to turn in alarms and to notify members
of the Department so that they may promptly respond.
   (E)   Private use. No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for
any private purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper
authority take away or conceal any article used in any way by the Department.
No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any
apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless accompanied by, or
having the special permission of, an officer or authorized member of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-13)
§ 34.28 CALLS OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Power to contract. The town is hereby authorized and empowered to
enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private
corporations or associations, or military installations or commands, or
political subdivisions of the state for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of the town, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   Contracts for service. Any contract entered into by the town, with an
individual owner, a firm, private corporation, association or political
subdivision, for outside aid or mutual aid for fire protection, shall provide
for the payment by the owner, firm, private corporation, association or
political subdivision for such service, equipment or personnel in an amount
reached through negotiation by the parties.
   (C)   Authority to answer calls. The Fire Department is authorized to answer
all outside calls in the surrounding community or counties within a distance of
50 miles from the nearest fire station, unless, in the opinion of the Fire
Chief or ranking officer, it is inexpedient to do so on account of another fire
in town, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways or other physical
conditions. A high priority shall be placed on a radius of five miles outside
the town limits.
   (D)   Charges for calls made outside town. The town may enter into a
contract with persons, organizations or associations to provide fire protection
service outside the town limits. Such contracts shall be conditioned upon the
determination of the Fire Chief that the property in question is within a
reasonable distance from the town and that, prior to any fire protection
equipment being dispatched for any fire call for such property, the Fire Chief
on duty shall first approve such call and determine that the equipment and
personnel to be dispatched are not needed for other purposes within the town.
The charges for such calls shall be as specified in the fee schedule.
   (E)   Firefighters serving in regular line of duty.
      (1)   All firefighters attending and serving at fires or doing fire
prevention work outside the corporate limits of the town, as herein provided,
shall be considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if
they were serving within the corporate limits of the town.
      (2)   The firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any fire
pension and relief fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or fire
prevention work was being done within the corporate limits of the town.
   (F)   Department considered agent of state. The Fire Department, when
answering any fire alarm or call or performing any fire prevention services
outside the corporate limits of the town, shall be considered as an agent of
the state, and acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and the town
shall not be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission or
negligence while answering or returning from any fire, or reported fire, or
doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-14)
CIVIL DEFENSE
§ 34.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to create an emergency management and
civil defense organization for the town to be prepared for, and to function in
the event of, emergencies endangering the lives and property of the people of
the town. The duty of such civil defense organization shall be the protection
of the lives and health of the citizens of the town and the property and
property rights, both private and public, and to perform all functions
necessary and incident thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 34.41 CIVIL DEFENSE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Purpose of Department. The purpose of the Civil Defense Department
(hereinafter “Department”) is to prepare for, and function in the event of,
emergencies endangering the lives and property of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   Director. The Department is headed by a Director, appointed by the
Town Board of Trustees for such compensation and under such terms as the Town
Board of Trustees may establish. The Director serves at the pleasure of the
Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 34.42 RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR, DEPUTIES.
   (A)   Director. The Director of the Department shall be the administrative
head of the Department and shall be responsible for carrying out the emergency
management and civil defense program of the town in coordination with the Civil
Defense Advisory Committee. He or she shall have such further duties and
responsibilities to cooperate with all emergency services and civil defense
agencies of other governmental units, including the state and the federal
government.
   (B)   Deputies. The Town Board of Trustees or the Director, when empowered
by the Town Board of Trustees, may designate some person as Deputy Director or
Assistant Director and shall prescribe the duties of the deputy or assistant
from time to time as necessary for the carrying out of the emergency management
and civil defense program of the town. The Deputy Director shall perform all
duties of the Director upon the death, disability or illness, or separation
from service of the Director. In addition to the foregoing duties, the deputy
or assistant shall render such aid and assistance and perform such duties under
the emergency management and civil defense program of the town as may be
required by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)
§ 34.43 EMERGENCY POWERS OF ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency, or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Director, after due authorization from the Mayor, shall
have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations relating to
emergency management and civil defense and, if necessary, to take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He or
she shall cooperate in every way with other governmental agencies, emergency
management services and civil defense organizations.
   (B)   The Director, other members of the Department and members of any
emergency services and the civil defense organization established herein shall
have the power and authority to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of
the town during the period of emergency and shall at such time have the further
power to make arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Investments
   
35.02   Depositories designated; deposit of funds
   
35.03   Funds secured
   
35.04   Purchasing procedure; competitive bidding
   
35.05   Purchases when bidding not required
   
35.06   Disposition of surplus or obsolete materials; bidding
Telephone Exchange Fee
   
35.20   Inspection fee and service charge
   
35.21   Charge in lieu of other license tax
Utility Fee
   
35.35   Utility fee levied
   
35.36   Fee in lieu of franchise
   
35.37   Tax payable monthly
   
35.38   Tax constitutes lien
   
35.39   Ouster for failure to pay
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 INVESTMENTS.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer or any other person authorized to invest public
monies shall invest the same in those investments authorized by the Town Board
of Trustees or authorized by state law in a manner authorized by either or both
such Board of Trustees and statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 35.02 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   All banks and financial institutions as are designated by the Town
Board of Trustees shall be designated as depositories for the funds of the
town.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit daily all public funds received
by him or her in these banks. Funds may be transferred from one depository to
another upon direction of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 35.03 FUNDS SECURED.
   The deposits of the town shall be secured pursuant to the security for Local
Public Deposits Act, which is hereby adopted insofar as such Act is applicable
to the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 62 O.S. §§ 517.1 et seq.
§ 35.04 PURCHASING PROCEDURE; COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   Supervision. All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and
contractual services for the town shall be made by the Town Board of Trustees
or pursuant to authorizations granted by it.
   (B)   Purchasing Authority. The Town Purchasing Authority shall contract for
and purchase all supplies, materials and equipment for the offices, departments
and agencies of the town. The Purchasing Authority may also transfer to or
between offices, departments and agencies, or sell surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials and equipment.
   (C)   Competitive bidding. Before a contract shall be entered into, or any
such purchase made involving the expenditure of more than $7,500, or any sale
made of property the value of which is more than $1,000, such contract or sale
shall:
      (1)   Be approved by the Town Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Be submitted for competitive bidding, except as provided in this
chapter; and
      (3)   Have written notice given by the Town Purchasing Authority for
sealed bids for the furnishing of such supplies, materials or equipment where
competitive bidding is required hereunder.
   (D)   Notice for bids; acceptance or rejection.
      (1)   The notice required in this section shall state the time and place
for filing the bids, shall contain an ample description of the supplies,
materials and equipment to be purchased or sold and shall state the time and
place the bids will be opened and that all bids may be rejected.
      (2)   The bids shall be in writing and sealed and filed with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer prior to the time they are to be opened. The bids may be
rejected, or the town may re-advertise for bids, or, after due consideration
thereof, may award a contract to purchase such supplies, materials or equipment
from the lowest and best responsible bidder. However, the Town Purchasing
Authority may, at his or her option, purchase any such materials, supplies and
equipment through central purchasing of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq.
§ 35.05 PURCHASES WHEN BIDDING NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   “Contractual services” defined. For the purpose of this section,
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES means services performed for the town by persons not in
the employment of the town and may include the use of equipment or the
furnishing of commodities in connection with such services under express or
implied contract. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES includes: travel; freight; express;
parcel post; postage; telephone; telegraph; utilities; rents; repairs,
alterations and maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets and bridges, and
other physical facilities of the town; and other services performed for the
town by persons not in the employment of the town.
   (B)   Purchases allowed. The following may be purchased without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding:
      (1)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services where cost
does not exceed $7,500 in a single transaction;
      (2)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer or a sole source vendor, or which have a
uniform price wherever bought;
      (3)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers, including war surplus, or purchased at auction at a price
deemed below that obtainable elsewhere;
      (4)   Contractual services (gas, electricity, telephone service and the
like) purchased from a public utility at a price or rate determined by the
State Corporation Commission or other government authority;
      (5)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services, when
purchased at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the state purchasing
agency or any other state agency authorized to regulate prices for things
purchased by the state (whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise);
      (6)   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural, medical and legal services; or
      (7)   When an emergency is declared to exist.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 35.06 DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE MATERIALS; BIDDING.
   (A)   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value of
more than $1,000 may be sold until the procedures outlined in this section have
been followed.
   (B)   The Town Purchasing Authority may sell the following without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding:
      (1)   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total
value does not exceed $1,000 in a single transaction;
      (2)   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the town for the same; or
      (3)   Where the Board of Trustees has authorized the sale of surplus
property at public auction under such terms, conditions and notice as the Board
of Trustees may prescribe or as the Town Purchasing Authority deems
appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6)
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
§ 35.20 INSPECTION FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Fee and charge levied. There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee
and service charge upon each and every person operating a telephone exchange in
the town to compensate the town for the expenses incurred and services rendered
incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision, police regulation
and police control of the construction of lines and equipment of the telephone
company in the town.
   (B)   Amount of fee and charge. The amount of the inspection fee and service
charge shall be an amount equal to 2% of the gross revenues for each current
year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the
limits of the town.
   (C)   Due date; payment. The inspection fee and charge shall be due and
payable to the town by July 1 each year for the preceding calendar year and
shall be paid into and appropriated and expended from the General Revenue Fund
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
§ 35.21 CHARGE IN LIEU OF OTHER LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this
subchapter by the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied by this
subchapter shall be and continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges,
excise, franchise, license, privilege and permit fees, or taxes or assessments,
except ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   This section is not intended to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the town is permitted to use the underground conduit, duct
space or pole contracts of the company for the fire alarm and police call
systems of the town, or either of them.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2)
UTILITY FEE
§ 35.35 UTILITY FEE LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of 2% upon the gross
receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas in the town, which tax
shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation or excise tax
levied by the town, all as provided by 68 O.S. §§ 2601 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
§ 35.36 FEE IN LIEU OF FRANCHISE.
   The tax levied under this subchapter shall, when levied, apply to all
persons, firms, associations or corporations engaged in the business of
furnishing gas within the corporate limits of the town, except that it shall
not apply to any person, firm, association or corporation operating under a
valid franchise from the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 35.37 TAX PAYABLE MONTHLY.
   (A)   The tax levied under this subchapter shall be levied for a term of not
less than one year and shall be payable monthly and placed in the General
Revenue Fund of the town.
   (B)   Amounts not paid when due shall bear interest at the rate of 10% per
annum until paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 35.38 TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   The tax so imposed in this subchapter shall constitute a first and prior
lien on all the assets located within the town of any person, firm or
corporation engaged in the business of selling gas within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4)
§ 35.39 OUSTER FOR FAILURE TO PAY.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from the town. In
addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-5)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
Sales Tax
   
36.01   Title
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Classification of taxpayers
   
36.04   Subsisting state permits
   
36.05   Purpose of revenues
   
36.06   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
36.07   Exemptions from tax
   
36.08   Due date
   
36.09   Payment of tax; brackets
   
36.10   Tax constitutes prior claim
   
36.11   Collection by vendors
   
36.12   Returns, remittances and discounts
   
36.13   Delinquencies; interest and penalties
   
36.14   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
36.15   Failure to file; fraudulent returns
   
36.16   Tax records confidential
   
36.17   Provisions cumulative
   
36.18   Amendments to chapter
 
   
36.99   Penalty
SALES TAX
§ 36.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Town Sales Tax
Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   State Sales Tax Code, see 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State Sales Tax
Code, 68 O.S. § 1352, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter. For the purpose of this subchapter, TAX COLLECTOR shall mean the
department of the town or the official agency of the state duly designated
according to law or contract authorized by law to administer the collection of
the tax herein levied.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 36.03 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Sales
Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3)
§ 36.04 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission, pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et
seq., are, for the purpose of this subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and
adopted in lieu of any requirement for an additional town permit for the same
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
§ 36.05 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of the revenues generated by the
sales tax levied herein to provide revenues for the support of the functions of
the municipal government of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5)
§ 36.06 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 3% upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the State Sales Tax Code, being
68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6)
§ 36.07 EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX.
   Exemptions from the sales tax levied in this subchapter shall include all
those allowed under the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7)
§ 36.08 DUE DATE.
   The tax levied under this subchapter shall be due and payable at the time
and in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under
the sales tax law of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-8)
§ 36.09 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the
sales tax law of the state.
   (B)   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the tax
collector shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
town and the tax collector, in the collection of both the town sales tax and
the state sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-9)
§ 36.10 TAX CONSTITUTES PRIOR CLAIM.
   Taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10)
§ 36.11 COLLECTION BY VENDORS.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor; and each and every vendor shall collect from the consumer or user the
full amount of the tax levied, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or
practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge; and, when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts.
   (C)   No vendor shall willfully or intentionally fail, neglect or refuse to
collect the full amount of the tax levied; or willfully or intentionally fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this subchapter; or remit or
rebate to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever
means, all or any part of the tax herein levied; or make in any form of
advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he or she
is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an
adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-11) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.12 RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Sales Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall
be subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the code for collection of
state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-12)
§ 36.13 DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Delinquencies.
      (1)   The statute 68 O.S. § 217 is adopted and made a part of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts specified in the
state statute cited in division (A)(1) above are hereby levied and shall be
applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by
this subchapter.
      (3)   The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this
subchapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
      (4)   If such delinquency continues for a period of five days, the
taxpayer shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount allowed under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Waiver of interest and penalties. The interest or penalty, or any
portion thereof, accruing by reason of a taxpayer’s failure to pay the town tax
herein levied, may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for the
waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the state sales tax
provided in 68 O.S. § 220. To accomplish the purposes of this division (B), the
applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 220 are adopted by reference and made a part
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13)
§ 36.14 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   (A)   Refund of erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227.
   (B)   To accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions
of 68 O.S. § 227 are adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-14)
§ 36.15 FAILURE TO FILE; FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. No person shall:
      (1)   Intentionally fail or refuse to make tax reports and remittances as
required under this subchapter; or
      (2)   Intentionally make false and fraudulent tax reports for the purpose
of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof due under this
subchapter.
   (B)   State sales tax permit number required. Any person required to collect
and remit sales tax pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350
et seq., or this code, and engaging in any of the callings, trades, avocations,
professions, businesses or occupations for which a license is required by the
town, and applying for such license, must submit proof as a condition precedent
to issuing such license of a valid sales tax permit number issued by the state.
   (C)   License suspension or revocation. Any license issued by the town to
any person engaging in any of the callings, trades, avocations, businesses,
professions or occupations for which a license is required by this code may be
suspended or revoked for failure to maintain a lawful sales tax license or
collect and remit sales tax if and as required by the State Sales Tax Code or
this code.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-15) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.16 TAX RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared; and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the State
Sales Tax Code, and all subsections thereof, are hereby adopted by reference
and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town sales tax
as if herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-16)
§ 36.17 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any
and all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-17)
§ 36.18 AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER.
   The Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, is authorized to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administration and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the tax herein provided shall
not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the town as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-18)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, any
violation of §
36.15 shall subject the offending taxpayer to the penalty set forth in §
10.99. Each day of such violation shall be considered a separate offense and
charged separately.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-15)
CHAPTER 37: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Identity theft prevention program
Town Records
   
37.15   Official custodian; public records listed
   
37.16   Designation of additional record custodians
   
37.17   Duties of custodians
   
37.18   Requests directed to custodians
   
37.19   Inspection and copying of records
   
37.20   Inspection of records
   
37.21   Copies of records
   
37.22   Fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose and procedures. The identity theft prevention program shall
consist of methods to detect red flags when accounts are fraudulent, procedures
to prevent the establishment of false accounts, procedures to ensure existing
accounts are not being manipulated and procedures to respond to identity theft.
   (B)   Compliance. The town shall be in compliance with the policies and
procedures outlined in its identity theft prevention program.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1) (Ord. 178, passed 4-27-2009)
TOWN RECORDS
§ 37.15 OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN; PUBLIC RECORDS LISTED.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby appointed as official custodian for
purposes of the State Open Records Act and is charged with responsibility for
compliance with that act with respect to the following listed public records:
all public records kept and maintained in the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office;
and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
§ 37.16 DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (A)   The official custodian appointed in §
37.15 is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate officers or employees
to serve as record custodians. The record custodians shall have such duties and
powers as are set out in the State Open Records Act, being 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et
seq.
   (B)   Whenever an official custodian shall appoint another person as a
record custodian, he or she shall notify the Town Clerk-Treasurer of such
designation, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a register of all such
designations.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
§ 37.17 DUTIES OF CUSTODIANS.
   All town officials and employees appointed or designated under this
subchapter shall: protect public records from damage and disorganization;
prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the town; provide
assistance and information upon request; ensure efficient and timely action and
response to all applications for inspection of public records; and shall carry
out the procedures adopted by the town for inspecting and copying open public
records.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3)
§ 37.18 REQUESTS DIRECTED TO CUSTODIANS.
   (A)   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a
public record in accordance with the provisions of the State Open Records Act,
being 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq., shall address their requests to the custodian
charged with responsibility for the maintenance of the record sought to be
inspected or copied.
   (B)   Whenever any town official or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this subchapter is presented with a request for access to, or
copy of, a public record, which record the custodian does not have in his or
her possession and which has not been given responsibility to keep and
maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record. The
person making the request shall be informed as to which custodian the request
should be addressed, if such is known by the custodian receiving the request.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4)
§ 37.19 INSPECTION AND COPYING OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Procedures. The following procedures for both inspection and copying
of records are hereby adopted and shall be applied by each official custodian
and record custodian.
      (1)   Consistent with the policy, duties and procedures established by
the State Open Records Act, being 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq., record custodians
shall provide full access and assistance in a timely and efficient manner to
persons who request access to open public records.
      (2)   Record custodians shall protect the integrity and organization of
public records with respect to the manner in which such records are inspected
and copied.
      (3)   Record custodians may prevent excessive disruptions of essential
functions and provide the record at the earliest possible time.
      (4)   All inspections and copying of open public records shall be
performed by, or under the supervision of, the record custodian responsible for
such records.
      (5)   All persons requesting the inspection of, or a copy of, open public
records shall make such request in writing prior to the request being honored,
except that no form shall be required for requests made for records which have
been reproduced for free public distribution.
      (6)   All record inspection and copying forms are to be completed by the
person requesting the record. The record custodian may demand reasonable
identification of any person requesting a record.
      (7)   Any fees for record inspection or for copies are due at the time
the records, or copies thereof, are provided to the requester, unless the
record custodian has demanded that prepayment of all or part of such fees be
made. Fees shall be paid to the record custodian or Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (8)   The record custodian or Town Clerk-Treasurer shall demand full or
partial prepayment of fees whenever the estimate for such fees exceeds the
amount set out in §
37.22(E).
      (9)   No record search or copying fee shall be assessed against officers
or employees of the town who make requests which are reasonably necessary to
the performance of their official duties.
      (10)   Hours for making requests for inspection or copying shall be all
regular working hours for each day the office maintains regular office hours.
      (11)   Removal of open public records from the office where kept and
maintained, for purposes of inspection or the making of copies, shall not be
permitted.
   (B)   Posting of procedures. The procedures listed in division (A) above, as
well as any other inspection and copying procedures, shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in the office of the record custodian.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5)
§ 37.20 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   The following procedures for inspection of records are hereby adopted and
shall be applied by every official custodian and record custodian.
   (A)   Record custodians shall handle all inspection requests in accordance
with their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting inspection of open public records.
   (B)   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
record. In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
record custodian and presented to the record custodian.
   (C)   A written request is sufficient if it reasonably describes the record
sought. In instances where the requester cannot provide sufficient information
to identify a record, the custodian shall assist in making such identification.
   (D)   The record custodian shall, upon making a denial of an inspection
request, forward a copy of the denial to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6)
§ 37.21 COPIES OF RECORDS.
   The following procedures apply regarding copies of records.
   (A)   Record custodians shall handle all copy requests in accordance with
their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting copies of open public records.
   (B)   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
copies. In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
record custodian.
   (C)   Mechanical reproduction of a record shall not be undertaken when it is
the judgment of the record custodian that any available means of mechanically
reproducing the subject record is likely to cause damage to such records.
   (D)   No copy fee shall be assessed when multiple copies of the record
requested have been prepared for free public distribution, or when the record
custodian determines that the cost of charging and handling the fee exceeds the
cost of providing a copy without charge.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-7)
§ 37.22 FEES.
   (A)   Where a request has been made for the inspection of an open public
record, no fee shall be charged.
   (B)   A fee per page as set by the Board of Trustees by motion or resolution
shall be charged for photocopying an open public record, such fee to cover the
cost of labor, materials and equipment.
   (C)   For copying any open public record which cannot be reproduced by
photocopying, such as a computer printout or a blueprint, the requester shall
be charged the actual cost to the town, including the cost of labor, materials
and equipment.
   (D)   A search fee shall be charged a requester who is using the record
solely for a commercial purpose. Such fee shall be the actual cost to the town
of producing the record, including the cost of labor, materials and equipment.
   (E)   A record custodian may demand prepayment of a fee whenever the
estimated amount exceeds $20. The prepayment amount shall be an estimate of the
cost of copying, mechanical reproduction or searching for the record. Any
overage or underage in the prepayment amount shall be settled prior to
producing the requested record or delivering the copy or mechanical
reproduction of the record.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-8)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   REFUSE AND SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Rules adopted by reference
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Rules and regulations to govern all public utilities of the town may be
adopted and amended from time to time by the Town Board of Trustees. Such rules
are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, applicable as if set
out in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the rules and regulations in this chapter shall be
punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
CHAPTER 51: REFUSE AND SOLID WASTE
Section
Refuse Collection Service
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Refuse service mandatory
   
51.03   Garbage and refuse collection; containers
   
51.04   Permit required to collect, transport refuse
   
51.05   Fees for service
 
   
51.99   Penalty
REFUSE COLLECTION SERVICE
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, except sewage and body wastes, including all
meat, vegetable and fruit refuse and carcasses of small animals and fowl from
any premises within the town.
   PREMISES. Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft or parts
thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs, leaves and similar materials
from any premises within the town.
   RUBBLE. Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden or metal
refuse-like materials, longer, larger or heavier than refuse.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1)
§ 51.02 REFUSE SERVICE MANDATORY.
   (A)   Mandatory service. All premises, residences and businesses of the town
which have trash, refuse or garbage are required to utilize refuse collection
services and have their trash and garbage hauled away and disposed of in
accordance with regulations of the town.
   (B)   Duty to request service.
      (1)   It is the duty of every person occupying or having control of the
occupancy of any premises in the town to notify the town at the beginning of
such occupancy and request, accept and use the refuse collection service of the
town.
      (2)   Failure of any owner, rental agent or occupant of premises to make
such request shall not prevent nor impair nor impede the town from adding that
person’s name to the refuse collection records and providing such service and
otherwise enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory measures herein
prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Providing portable containers. It is the duty of every person owning,
managing, operating, leasing, occupying or renting any premises, or any place
where refuse accumulates, to provide, and at all times maintain in good order
and repair, on the premises, a portable container or containers for refuse.
   (B)   Container use and specifications; cleanliness.
      (1)   The containers shall be rodentproof and flyproof with tightfitting
lids and side handles, and be of sufficient capacity limited to pounds as
determined by the town and its agents, in sufficient numbers to accommodate and
securely keep all of the refuse that may accumulate between collections, except
where approved type bulk containers are in use.
      (2)   All such containers shall be kept clean and free from accumulation
of any substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would
attract flies, mosquitoes or any other insects.
      (3)   The containers shall be placed at curbside for collection on the
regular collection days in a location mutually convenient to the resident and
the refuse collector.
      (4)   All refuse shall be transported to and emptied into the bulk
containers where they are provided.
   (C)   Commercial and institutional establishments. Commercial and
institutional establishments shall use containers as are necessary to keep the
premises in a sanitary condition and such as may be approved by the Town Board
of Trustees.
   (D)   Pick up of other items of debris. The Town Board of Trustees may, from
time to time, adopt regulations governing the pick up of other items of debris
not provided for herein.
   (E)   Collection by town. The town or its agents shall collect garbage,
trash, debris, rubbish and refuse as provided herein over routes approved by
the town when such refuse is placed in proper containers as prescribed by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 PERMIT REQUIRED TO COLLECT, TRANSPORT REFUSE.
   (A)   Permit or franchise required. No person except a duly authorized agent
of the town shall collect refuse or convey or transport refuse or rubbish on
the streets, alleys and rights-of-way of the town for hire, without having
first obtained a written permit or franchise from the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Conveyance for transporting refuse. No refuse or rubbish shall be
hauled within the town in any type of conveyance other than a truck, wagon or
similar conveyance being equipped in accordance with all state laws and in
compliance with the regulations of the State Department of Environmental
Quality.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 FEES FOR SERVICE.
   Fees shall be established by motion or resolution for the refuse service
provided by the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99. Each day such violation occurs shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Declaration of public utility
   
52.02   Water shortage emergency procedure
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC UTILITY.
   (A)   Declaration. The water system of the town is hereby declared to be a
public utility.
   (B)   Rates and rules. Rates and rules shall be established by the Town
Board of Trustees by motion or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 52.02 WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Authority of Mayor in emergencies. Whenever an emergency exists by
reason of a shortage of water due to inadequate supply, limited treatment or
distribution capacity or failure of equipment or material, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to restrict or prohibit the use of water from the town water system.
   (B)   Emergency conditions. An emergency exists whenever the Mayor
reasonably determines that the town water system is unable to or will, within
60 days, become unable to supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the
users thereof, including adequate fire protection.
   (C)   Proclamation.
      (1)   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the Mayor
shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with
particularity an order restricting use of water from the town system. Such
order may:
         (a)   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week
or according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
         (b)   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety.
      (2)   The order may be revised from time to time as the Mayor deems
necessary.
   (D)   Publication of proclamation.
      (1)   The proclamation required by division (C) below shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the town, or if there is no such
newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within 24 hours after the
emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy of the proclamation in
ten prominent places in the town. The emergency proclamation shall be in full
force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with this division
(D)(1) is sufficient to effect the proclamation.
      (2)   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability
of water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. If any such means is other than that required in division (D)
(1) above, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance with division
(D)(1) above within 24 hours of the first notice.
   (E)   Duration of proclamation. A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue,
and the terms of the proclamation shall be in full force, for 30 days or until
such time as the Mayor or the Town Board of Trustees shall cause to be
published a proclamation that the emergency has ended, whichever is shorter,
unless the Town Board of Trustees, by resolution approved by a majority of all
its members, extends the proclamation.
   (F)   Right to appeal.
      (1)   Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the Mayor shall
have the right to present the matter to the next regular or special meeting of
the Town Board of Trustees or to any emergency session called to discuss the
water emergency.
      (2)   The Town Board of Trustees may exempt such aggrieved person, wholly
or in part, from compliance with the proclamation order upon a showing that
compliance creates an immediate threat to the person’s health or safety.
      (3)   The ruling of the Town Board of Trustees by a majority vote of all
its members shall be final and binding as to the continuance of any terms of
the proclamation.
      (4)   Until and unless the action of the Mayor is modified or revoked by
action of the Town Board of Trustees, all water users shall be bound by the
proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates or permits
others under his supervision, custody or control to violate any term of a duly
published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each separate day of
water use in violation of such proclamation shall constitute a separate
offense. Violations of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
   
53.01   Declaration of public utility
   
53.02   Notice of violation
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC UTILITY.
   (A)   Declaration. The sanitary sewer system of the town is declared to be a
public utility, a proper source of revenue for the upkeep and maintenance of
the system, for the financing of the system and for other purposes, operated by
the town.
   (B)   Rates and regulations. Rates and regulations may be established from
time to time by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 53.02 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of the town sewer regulations shall
be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit of the satisfactory correction thereof.
   (B)   The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in §
53.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be fined
as provided in §
10.99. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town
by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; SIGNS AND SIGNALS
      
75.   VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Adoption of State Traffic Code
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Application of regulations
   
70.04   Compulsory liability insurance
   
70.05   Accidents
   
70.06   Vehicle equipment generally
   
70.07   Size, weight of vehicles
   
70.08   Securing loads
   
70.09   Inspection of vehicles by officers
   
70.10   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
70.11   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
70.12   Unlawful riding
   
70.13   Authorizing or permitting violations
   
70.14   Animals and animal-drawn vehicles
   
70.15   Working on streets; exceptions
   
70.16   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.17   Following fire apparatus or other emergency vehicles; crossing fire
hose
   
70.18   Duty of police and firefighters
   
70.19   Loud music or noise from vehicles
   
70.20   Seat belts and child passenger restraints
Impoundment
   
70.35   Purpose and effect
   
70.36   Place of impoundment
   
70.37   Duration of impoundment
   
70.38   Police authority to impound
   
70.39   Arrest and detention of driver
   
70.40   Disabled vehicles
   
70.41   Vehicles on bridge
   
70.42   Vehicle constitutes traffic hazard
   
70.43   Illegal trespass by vehicle; complaint
   
70.44   Vehicles parked overtime
   
70.45   Blocking fire exits or hydrants
   
70.46   Vehicles parked in intersection
   
70.47   Stolen vehicles; recovery by police
   
70.48   Vehicles with outstanding traffic citations
   
70.49   Inventory of impounded vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE.
   The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.,
and the rules of the road, 47 O.S. §§ 11-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference and are enforceable by the town within the
town limits as fully as if set out at length herein. One copy of the adopted
statutes shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer for
examination by the public.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this traffic code, words and phrases used herein shall
be as defined in the laws of the state regulating traffic, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et
seq., which laws are hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 70.03 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to every street, highway,
alley, roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, every other public way either
within or outside the corporate limits of the town, the use of which the town
has jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
   (B)   Those upon land owned by the town;
   (C)   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the town; and/or
   (D)   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 70.04 COMPULSORY LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Requirements and exemptions in regard to compulsory liability insurance for
persons operating motor vehicles within the town shall be pursuant to 47 O.S.
§§ 7-600 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 70.05 ACCIDENTS.
   The requirements of 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq. shall apply to all drivers of
motor vehicles involved in an accident within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5)
§ 70.06 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT GENERALLY.
   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the town which is not equipped as
required by law;
   (B)   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it
in a manner prohibited by law; or
   (C)   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a street
in the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 SIZE, WEIGHT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   State permit for oversized vehicle. No person shall drive on or convey
through any street any vehicle the width, height, length, weight or load of
which exceeds that authorized by state law, except in accordance with a permit
issued by state authority or by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Weight limitation. No vehicle weighing more than ten tons shall be
operated upon the streets, alleys and other public ways within the town, except
on state highways.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 SECURING LOADS.
   (A)   Preventing load from dropping or leaking. No vehicle shall be driven
or moved on any street or alley unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded
as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise
escaping therefrom, except that sand or salt may be dropped for the purpose of
securing traction, or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Securing load. No person shall operate on any street or alley any
vehicle with any load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely
fastened so as to prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or
in any manner a hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   (C)   Exception, livestock or agricultural products. This section shall not
apply to trucks loaded only with livestock, poultry or agricultural products,
except baled agricultural products, but any such truck shall be constructed or
loaded as to prevent the livestock or poultry from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES BY OFFICERS.
   Police officers have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the town at any time to determine whether such vehicle is safe,
whether it is properly equipped and whether its equipment is in proper
adjustment or repair.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9)
§ 70.10 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended
for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall authorize, or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him
or her, registered in his or her name or under his or her control, to be
driven, parked or stopped in violation of any provision of this traffic code.
   (B)   No parent of any child or guardian of any ward shall cause, authorize
or knowingly permit such child or ward to violate any provision of this traffic
code.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 ANIMALS AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this traffic code applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions of this traffic code which by
their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-14)
§ 70.15 WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Authority to close streets.
      (1)   The town employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the town, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving
or repairing lines of other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the Board of Trustees, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance or
construction.
      (2)   In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper traffic-control devices
and barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   (B)   Driving restrictions.
      (1)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) above, and traffic-control devices or barricades have been
erected, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over or around the traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to persons
while engaged in the construction, maintenance and repair, or to persons
entering therein for the protection of lives or property.
      (3)   Persons having their places of residence or places of business
within the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at
their own risk.
   (C)   Construction under traffic.
      (1)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or
utility line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees,
personnel or contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic-
control devices to warn and guide the public, and every person using the street
shall obey all signs, signals, markings, flaggers or other traffic-control
devices which are placed to regulate, control and guide traffic through the
construction or maintenance area.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (C), CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE
AREA means any area upon or around any street that is visibly marked as an area
where construction, repair and maintenance is temporarily occurring. The
construction or maintenance area also includes the lanes of highway leading up
to the area upon which an activity described in this section is being
performed, beginning at the point where properly posted traffic-control devices
start to warn and guide the public into and through the construction or
maintenance, including, but not limited to, instructions to merge from one lane
into another lane, to reduce speed or to follow directions of flaggers.
   (D)   Removing or defacing traffic-control devices or barricades. No person
shall remove, change, modify, deface or alter any traffic-control device or
barricade which has been erected on any street under the provisions of this
section.
   (E)   Liability. Nothing in this section shall relieve the town or any of
its contractors, agents, servants or employees from liability for failure to
perform any of the duties imposed herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Drivers of authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privilege set forth in this division (A), but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
      (2)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         (a)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this division
(A);
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         (c)   Exceed the maximum speed limits as long as speeding does not
endanger life or property;
         (d)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement; and
         (e)   Disregard regulations governing turning in specified directions.
      (3)   (a)   The exemptions herein granted to the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver is properly and lawfully
making use of an audible signal or of flashing red or blue lights or a
combination of flashing red and blue lights meeting the requirements of state
statutes, except that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police
vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red or blue light visible from
in front of the vehicle.
         (b)   This division (A)(3) shall not be construed as requiring a peace
officer operating a police vehicle properly and lawfully in response to a crime
in progress to use audible signals.
      (4)   The exemptions in divisions (A)(2)(c) and (A)(2)(e) above shall be
granted to a law enforcement officer operating an authorized emergency vehicle
for law enforcement purposes without using audible and visual signals required
by this section as long as the action does not endanger life or property if the
officer is following a suspected violator of the law with probable cause to
believe that:
         (a)   Knowledge of the presence of the officer will cause the suspect
to:
            1.   Destroy or lose evidence of a suspected felony;
            2.   End a suspected continuing felony before the officer has
obtained sufficient evidence to establish grounds for arrest; or
            3.   Evade apprehension or identification of the suspect or the
vehicle of the suspect.
         (b)   Because of traffic conditions, vehicles moving in response to
the audible or visual signals may increase the potential for a collision; and
         (c)   The exceptions granted in this division (A)(4) shall not apply
to an officer who is in actual pursuit of a person who is eluding or attempting
to elude the officer in violation of state statutes.
      (5)   The provisions of this division (A) shall not relieve the driver of
an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (B)   Operation of vehicles upon approach of authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of state
statutes, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal or red flashing lights, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not be construed to require a peace officer
operating a police vehicle properly and lawfully in response to a crime in
progress to use audible signals, nor shall this division (B) operate to relieve
the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS OR OTHER EMERGENCY VEHICLES; CROSSING FIRE
HOSE.
   (A)   Following fire apparatus, other emergency vehicles.
      (1)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any emergency vehicle or shall not purposely drive to any location
on a street where an emergency exists which would interfere with the free
movement of authorized emergency vehicles or any other traffic using the street
at that location. For the purpose of this division (A), the definition of
EMERGENCY shall include traffic accidents, airplane accidents, disasters,
explosions, civil disturbances and (without limitation by the foregoing) any
other related circumstances which tend to cause traffic congestion.
   (B)   Crossing fire hose. No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a Fire Department when laid down on any street or private driveway, to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire
Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 DUTY OF POLICE AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Police Department. The Police Department shall have the power to
enforce the street traffic regulations of the town and all of the state vehicle
laws applicable to street traffic in the town, to make arrests for traffic
violations, to investigate accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the
town in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means
to improve traffic conditions.
   (B)   Fire Department. Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of
a fire or other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic
there or in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-18)
§ 70.19 LOUD MUSIC OR NOISE FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any moving, parked or sitting vehicle to emit loud
or amplified music or sound from a motor vehicle as defined by state statutes
and including, but not limited to, self-propelled or motor driven cycle,
minibike, golf cart and any all-terrain vehicle within the limits of the town.
This includes all roadways, alleys and streets within the town limits during
any hours of the day or night. This section applies to music or sound emitted
from any vehicle as listed in this section equipped with radio, stereo or any
other equipment, stock or modified sound systems. Violation of this section
shall be defined as music, sounds or noise which shall be heard more than 25
feet from any vehicle listed in this section which is moving, parked or
sitting.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 SEAT BELTS AND CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINTS.
   (A)   Seat belt required.
      (1)   (a)   Every operator and front seat passenger of a class A
commercial motor vehicle, class B commercial motor vehicle, class C commercial
motor vehicle or a passenger vehicle operated in the town shall wear a properly
adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system, required to be installed in the
motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 571.208.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (A), PASSENGER VEHICLE shall
mean a class D motor vehicle, but shall not include trucks, truck-tractors,
recreational vehicles, motorcycles or motorized bicycles or a vehicle used
primarily for farm use which is registered and licensed pursuant to state
statutes.
      (2)   (a)   The State Commissioner of Public Safety, upon application
from a person who, for medical reasons, is unable to wear a safety seat belt
system supported by written attestation of such fact from a physician licensed
pursuant to state statutes, may issue to the person an exemption from the
provisions of this division (A). The exemption shall be in the form of a
restriction appearing on the driver’s license of the person and shall remain in
effect until the expiration date of the driver’s license.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (A)(2) shall be construed to prevent
the person from applying for another exemption as provided for in this division
(A)(2). The issuance of an attestation by a physician and the subsequent
issuance of an exemption by the State Commissioner, in good faith, shall not
give rise to, nor shall the physician and the state thereby incur, any
liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise, to any person injured by reason
of failure of the person to wear a safety seat belt system.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle
while performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
      (4)   Fine and court costs for violation of the provisions of this
division (A) shall not exceed $20.
   (B)   Child passenger restraints.
      (1)   Every driver, when transporting a child under six years of age in a
motor vehicle operated on the streets of the town, shall provide for the
protection of said child by properly using a child passenger restraint system.
For the purpose of this division (B), CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM means an
infant or child passenger restraint system which meets the federal standards as
set by 49 C.F.R. § 571.213.
      (2)   Children at least six years of age but younger than 13 years of age
shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
      (3)   The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to:
         (a)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
         (b)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
         (c)   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in
use;
         (d)   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are
unable to be placed in such devices, provided there is written documentation
from a physician of such medical reason; or
         (e)   1.   The transportation of a child who weighs more than 40
pounds and who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing
only a lap safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
combination lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and
shoulder safety belts in the back seat are being used by other children who
weigh more than 40 pounds.
            2.   Provided, however, for the purpose of this division (B)(3)(e),
BACK SEAT shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a vehicle
operated by a licensed childcare facility or church. Provided further, there
shall be a rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight requirements
of this division (B)(3)(e) if, at the request of any law enforcement officer,
the licensed childcare facility or church provides the officer with a written
statement verified by the parent or legal guardian that the child weighs more
than 40 pounds.
      (4)   A violation of the provisions of this division (B) shall be
admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages unless the
plaintiff in such action or proceeding is a child under 16 years of age. In any
action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal injuries or wrongful
death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure of any person to have
the infant properly restrained in accordance with the provisions of this
division (B) shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of damages.
      (5)   A person who is certified as a child passenger safety technician
and who in good faith provides inspection, adjustment or educational services
regarding child passenger restraint systems shall not be liable for civil
damages resulting from any act or omission in providing such services, other
than acts or omissions constituting gross negligence or willful or wanton
misconduct.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-20) Penalty, see 70.99
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 70.35 PURPOSE AND EFFECT.
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-1)
§ 70.36 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by
the Town Board of Trustees and to no other place.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-2)
§ 70.37 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the authority of
this subchapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for its release
is received from a court of proper jurisdiction. The order of release of an
impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon the payment by the person to whom
the release is issued of all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges
assessed against the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-3)
§ 70.38 POLICE AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this subchapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order
of an authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures
required in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-4)
§ 70.39 ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leave or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-5)
§ 70.40 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal, and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-6)
§ 70.41 VEHICLES ON BRIDGE.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any
tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-7)
§ 70.42 VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-8)
§ 70.43 ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE; COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Impoundment upon complaint. An unattended vehicle found to be in
violation of this subchapter may be impounded when the required complaint has
been properly made and filed as provided in this section.
   (B)   Filing and verification of complaint.
      (1)   If a violation of the provisions of this subchapter occurs, the
owner or legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person
parking the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s property, or if the
identity of the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may
be filed against the registered owner of the vehicle.
      (2)   The complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the
complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the
vehicle is parked or standing.
   (C)   Impoundment, storage of vehicle. Upon filing of the complaint by the
property owner or legal occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to
believe the provisions of this subchapter have been violated, the Police
Department shall cause the vehicle to be impounded from the property and placed
in storage.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-9)
§ 70.44 VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this subchapter regarding more than 24 hours
shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-10)
§ 70.45 BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-11)
§ 70.46 VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-12)
§ 70.47 STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE.
   (A)   Owner not found. Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and
the registered owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one
hour, or cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying
media in the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of
stolen cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of
impoundment, and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the
location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police
Department.
   (B)   Owner notified. If the registered owner is identified, located and
notified of the recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the
right to make his or her own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within
the period of one hour from the time he or she is actually notified of its
recovery, and if the owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within
the time specified, the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-13)
§ 70.48 VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which two or more citations have been issued for violation
of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-14)
§ 70.49 INVENTORY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his or her property, the protection
of town law enforcement personnel and the protection of the garage or wrecker
service moving or holding the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-15)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violations.
         (a)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this traffic code.
         (b)   No parent of a child or the guardian of a ward shall authorize
any child or ward to violate any provisions of this traffic code.
         (c)   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit any vehicle
registered in his or her name to be driven, or to stand, or to be parked in
violation of any provisions of this traffic code.
      (2)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this traffic
code, or performs any unlawful act as defined in this traffic code, or fails to
perform any act required in this traffic code is guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
      (3)   Citation tags on parked vehicles.
         (a)   In cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in
violation of this traffic code, police officers and other persons appointed by
the Chief of Police shall affix citation tags to the vehicles.
         (b)   A violator of any provision of this traffic code who has been
given a citation tag and fails to appear in accordance with the instructions of
such tag shall be subject to a separate offense as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-21)
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.19 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $50, plus court costs.
      (2)   If found guilty of violating the provisions of §
70.19 between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., the court shall have the
discretion to double the fine as set forth in division (B)(1) above for any
violator.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-19)
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
70.20(B) shall be punished by a fine of $50 and shall pay all court costs
thereof. Revenue from such fine shall be apportioned to the State Department of
Public Safety restricted revolving fund and used by the State Highway Safety
Office to promote the use of child passenger restraint systems. This fine shall
be suspended, and the court costs limited to a maximum of $15 in the case of
the first offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition by loan of a child
passenger restraint system.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-20)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Operation of vehicles generally
   
71.02   Licensing requirements
   
71.03   Speed regulations
   
71.04   Turning and signals
   
71.05   Driving on right side; exceptions
   
71.06   Right-of-way generally
   
71.07   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.08   Reckless driving
   
71.09   Driving while impaired or under the influence
   
71.10   Driving on sidewalk
   
71.11   Limitations on backing
   
71.12   Corner cutting
   
71.13   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
§ 71.01 OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY.
   Every person operating a vehicle in the town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
town and state, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians and
property of others.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 71.02 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Driver’s license. It is unlawful for any person who does not have a
driver’s license as required by state law for operation of a vehicle upon the
state highways, to operate a motor vehicle within the town or to operate a
motor vehicle within the town in violation of any restriction applied to the
driver’s license.
   (B)   Vehicle license. No person shall drive, propel, move or park on the
streets of the town any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless the motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer is licensed as required by state law and the
license is conspicuously displayed thereon.
   (C)   Unlicensed vehicles. It is unlawful for any person to park any motor
vehicle not bearing a current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street
or highway within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General rule.
      (1)   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him or her to bring such vehicle to
a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of division (A)(1) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
   (B)   General maximum speed limit.
      (1)   No vehicle, unless specifically authorized by some other section of
this code or by posted signs, shall be driven at a speed greater than 25 mph
upon any street within the town.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may determine that certain other speed
regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets in certain areas, in
which event it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed
in excess of any speed so declared when signs are in place giving notice
thereof.
   (C)   School zones. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in excess of 15
mph between the hours or times as posted over or upon any portion of the public
streets of the town which have been designated as school zones and marked as
school zones in the manner provided by the statutes and regulations of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 TURNING AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   Required position, method of turning at intersections. The driver of a
vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows.
      (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      (2)   Left turns. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at an
intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle. After entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to
leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered. Whenever practicable, when leaving a two-way roadway, the left turn
shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of
the intersection.
   (B)   Vehicle turning left. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the
left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is so close thereto when initiating such turn as to constitute
an immediate hazard.
   (C)   Turns and U-turns.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees may determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall place
proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be removed when
such turns are permitted.
      (2)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or
left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign.
   (D)   Turning, stopping signals required.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection, a public or
private road or a driveway unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the
roadway, or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such movement
can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn any vehicle without
giving an appropriate signal as provided in division (D)(2) below, in the event
any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left as required by law
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in division
(D)(2) above to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is
opportunity to give such signal.
      (4)   (a)   When any person is properly preparing for, attempting or
executing a left turn, as described in division (D)(1) above, no other person
operating another vehicle immediately following the turning vehicle shall pass
or attempt to pass the turning vehicle to the left.
         (b)   Such other person shall come to a complete stop if necessary at
a safe distance behind the person preparing for, attempting or executing the
turn or may proceed to the right of the turning vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 71.05 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Driving on right; exceptions. Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a
vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the laws governing such movement; or
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the street; provided, that any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the street within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (B)   Slow moving traffic.
      (1)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane when available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway and may be
temporarily driven upon the right-hand shoulder for the purpose of permitting
other vehicles to pass.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply when overtaking and passing
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for a left
turn at an intersection or into a private road or driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 71.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY GENERALLY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street; provided, that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state
or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6)
§ 71.07 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the town. It shall be
deemed reckless driving for any person to drive a motor vehicle in a careless
or wanton manner without regard for the safety of persons or property or at a
heedless or dangerous rate of speed.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 DRIVING WHILE IMPAIRED OR UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to drive, operate or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle within the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person whose ability to drive, operate or be in
actual physical control of any motor vehicle is impaired due to consumption of
intoxicating liquor or low-point beer.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or under the
influence of any narcotic, drug, barbiturate or amphetamine, or marijuana, or
who is under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him or
her incapable of safely driving a motor vehicle to drive a motor vehicle within
the town. The fact that any person charged with a violation of this division
(C) is or has been lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug, barbiturate,
amphetamine, marijuana or other drug shall not constitute a defense against any
charge of violating this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except at
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 CORNER CUTTING.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any
parking facility, except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the
services offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking
facility.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across
any parking facility for the purpose of shortening their travel distance,
avoiding a traffic-control device, avoiding using the streets for travel or
turning a vehicle so as to proceed in opposite direction on the street from
which it entered the drive.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.13 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-13)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking prohibited in specific places
   
72.02   Selling merchandise from parked vehicles
   
72.03   Handicapped parking on public or private property
   
72.04   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES.
   (A)   Prohibited places. Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below,
no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, or if in an area serviced by a
volunteer fire department, within 30 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (4)   Within an intersection;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
authority having jurisdiction indicates a different length by signs or marking;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of said entrance (when properly signposted);
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass; or
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   Solid waste collection vehicles. No person engaging in the collection
and disposal of solid waste or recycling material, or both, as a business,
pursuant to the provisions of the State Solid Waste Management Act, shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   Within an intersection;
      (3)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (4)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass; or
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (C)   Moving vehicle of another into prohibited area. No person shall move a
vehicle not lawfully under the control of the person into any prohibited area
or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 27A O.S. §§ 2-10-101 et seq.
§ 72.02 SELLING MERCHANDISE FROM PARKED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street in the town
and offer merchandise for sale therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided
in this traffic code, the sale of merchandise from parked vehicles on streets
in the town is declared to be dangerous to traffic and to the persons
congregating around the vehicle and constitutes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 HANDICAPPED PARKING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such
person has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions of 47 O.S. §
15-112 and such insignias are displayed as provided in 47 O.S. § 15-112 or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   Registered owner liable. In any prosecution charging a violation of
any law or regulation governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof
that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation
of any law or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle,
shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered
owner of the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the
point where and for the time during which the violation occurred.
   (B)   Application of section. The presumption in division (A) above shall
apply only when the procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles and Motorized Scooters
   
73.01   Application of traffic regulations
   
73.02   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.03   Riding on bicycles or motorized scooters
   
73.04   Use of right side of roadway
   
73.05   Riding abreast
   
73.06   Speed
   
73.07   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.08   Lights and reflectors
Golf Carts, Utility Vehicles and All-Terrain Vehicles
   
73.20   Definitions
   
73.21   Limitations of activities
   
73.22   Rules and regulations
   
73.23   Prohibited acts
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED SCOOTERS
§ 73.01 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Regulations applicable generally.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any
act required by the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The parent of any child or the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   The provisions of this subchapter are applicable to bicycles and
motorized scooters operated upon any street or highway or upon any path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles and motorized scooters.
   (B)   Traffic laws and regulations apply. Every person riding a bicycle or
motorized scooter upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall
be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws
of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles, or by the
traffic ordinances of the town applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as
to special regulations in this subchapter and except as to those provisions of
law and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Compliance with traffic-control signals. Any person operating a
bicycle or motorized scooter shall obey the instructions of official traffic-
control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer. Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a
bicycle or motorized scooter shall disobey the direction of any such sign,
except where such person dismounts from the bicycle or motorized scooter to
make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
   (B)   Walking of bicycles. Any person may walk bicycles and shall then be
subject to all laws applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 RIDING ON BICYCLES OR MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle or motorized scooter shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 USE OF RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   Every person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a roadway shall
ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due
care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4)
§ 73.05 RIDING ABREAST.
   Persons riding bicycles or motorized scooters upon a roadway shall not ride
more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles or motorized scooters.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-5) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle or motorized scooter at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-6) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   Bicycles or motorized scooters may not be ridden upon any sidewalk within
the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-7) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS.
   Every bicycle or motorized scooter, when in use at nighttime, shall be
equipped with a lamp on the frame which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear
of a type approved by the State Department of Public Safety, which shall be
visible from all distances from 300 feet to 500 feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps of a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting
a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in
addition to the red reflector.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-8)
GOLF CARTS, UTILITY VEHICLES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART, UTILITY VEHICLE and ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. As defined in 47 O.S. §§
1102 and 1116.2.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, company, association, firm,
organization or partnership.
   TOWN PROPERTY. All real property wherein the town has a fee simple interest
therein, any of the town’s public trusts, all easements, platted streets,
alleys and sidewalks within the municipal limits of the town which the town has
jurisdiction to regulate the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1) (Ord. 184, passed 11-25-2013)
§ 73.21 LIMITATIONS OF ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Traffic laws observed. All applicable state laws and statutes
addressing or pertaining to vehicular operation, including those related to the
possession and use of alcoholic beverages, traffic laws, including speed limits
and the like, shall be observed and enforced at all times.
   (B)   Right-of-way. Drivers or operators of golf carts, utility vehicles
and/or all-terrain vehicles shall stay to the far right of the traveled portion
of the road and yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2) (Ord. 184, passed 11-25-2013)
§ 73.22 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall adopt such other rules, regulations and
policies not otherwise stated herein as they deem best for the safety and
convenience of the public and for the operation of golf carts, utility vehicles
and/or all-terrain vehicles within the town limits. When such rules and
regulations have been adopted and approved, they shall be filed in the office
of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3) (Ord. 184, passed 11-25-2013) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 16 years may operate or drive a golf cart,
utility vehicle and/or all-terrain vehicle upon the public streets within the
town and/or other town property.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a golf cart, utility vehicle and/or all-
terrain vehicle while it is in operation, including when it is parked and the
engine is engaged.
   (C)   No person who is the owner of a golf cart, utility vehicle and/or all-
terrain vehicle shall permit the same to be operated in violation of these
rules and regulations.
   (D)   No person shall drive or operate a golf cart, utility vehicle and/or
all-terrain vehicle on the east/west street known as State Highway 46.
   (E)   No person shall drive or operate a golf cart, utility vehicle and/or
all-terrain vehicle on the north/south street known as State Highway 15.
   (F)   A golf cart, utility vehicle and/or all-terrain vehicle may be
operated during daylight hours, provided an operational flashing caution light
is mounted on the back of said vehicle, and may be operated during non-daylight
hours, provided operational headlights are mounted on the front of said vehicle
and operational taillights and an operational flashing caution light are
mounted on the back of said vehicle.
   (G)   No person shall transport or carry more passengers than the number of
passengers which said cart or vehicle was designed to carry or transport during
its operation.
   (H)   Each golf cart, utility vehicle and/or all-terrain vehicle operated
within the town limits, and/or operated on real property owned by the town,
must be inspected and authorized by an approved agent representing the town.
   (I)   Each operator must provide proof of insurance, including state
security verification form, policy number, effective date, expiration date and
vehicle identification number.
   (J)   Each operator must obtain a permit, annually, from the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, with said permit to be issued by said Clerk-Treasurer upon
presentment of a valid driver’s license, insurance verification and payment of
$10. This fee will be prorated based on the month of purchase of said permit,
with a sticker issued and prominently displayed on said vehicle after issuance
by the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-4) (Ord. 184, passed 11-25-2013) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The fine for violation of this chapter shall be as set forth in §
10.99, and any amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-5)
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating the rules and regulations in §
73.22 shall be subject to penalty as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3)
(Ord. 184, passed 11-25-2013)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; SIGNS AND SIGNALS
Section
   
74.01   Obedience to devices
   
74.02   Necessity of signs
   
74.03   Interference with devices, signs or signals
   
74.04   Presumption of legality
   
74.05   Ratification of existing devices
   
74.06   Traffic-control signal legend
   
74.07   Flashing signals
   
74.08   Driving within traffic lanes
   
74.09   One-way streets and alleys
   
74.10   Through streets
   
74.11   Stop and yield signs
§ 74.01 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1)
§ 74.02 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   (A)   No provision of this traffic code for which official traffic-control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   (B)   Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-
control devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2)
§ 74.03 INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or, in fact, alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device,
including any 911 emergency telephone service route markers, or any railroad
sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4)
§ 74.05 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the effective date hereof and in use for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and declared to be
official traffic-control devices; provided, that such traffic-control devices
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5)
§ 74.06 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend.
   (B)   These lights shall indicate appropriate action and apply to drivers of
vehicles and pedestrians as provided by applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-6)
§ 74.07 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Red or yellow signal. Whenever an illuminated red or yellow signal is
used in a traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular
traffic as follows:
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the requirements of law applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-7)
§ 74.08 DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   Driving within marked lanes required. Where traffic lanes have been
marked, it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to
keep such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully
passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or
as otherwise authorized by ordinance.
   (B)   Rules for driving within lanes. Whenever any roadway has been divided
into two or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, the following requirements,
in addition to all others consistent herewith, shall apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within
a single lane.
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has
first ascertained that the movement can be made with safety and then given a
signal, not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle, of his or her
intention to change lanes.
      (3)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and the center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or where the
center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of the
allocation.
      (4)   (a)   A two-way left turn lane is a lane near the center of the
highway set aside for use by vehicles making left turns in both directions from
or into the roadway. Two-way left turn lanes shall be designated by distinctive
roadway markings consisting of parallel double yellow lines, interior line
dashed and exterior line solid, on each side of the lane. A vehicle shall not
be driven in a designated two-way left turn lane except when preparing for or
making a left turn from or into a roadway.
         (b)   Vehicles turning left from the roadway shall not be driven in
the two-way left turn lane for more than 200 feet while preparing for and
making the turn. A vehicle turning left onto the roadway may utilize the two-
way left turn lane as a staging area by stopping and waiting for traffic
proceeding in the same direction to clear before merging into the adjacent
lanes of travel. A left turn shall not be made from any other lane where a two-
way left turn lane has been designated. Provided, however, this section shall
not prohibit driving across a two-way left turn lane when moving from a service
drive onto such marked roadway.
      (5)   Upon a roadway which is divided into four or more lanes, a vehicle
shall not impede the normal flow of traffic by driving in the left lane;
provided, however, this division (B)(5) shall not prohibit driving in a lane
other than the right-hand lane when traffic conditions or flow, or both, or
road configuration, such as the potential of merging traffic, require the use
of lanes other than the right-hand lane to maintain safe traffic conditions.
      (6)   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use
a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Designation; posting of signs.
      (1)   Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the town designates any
one-way street or alley, the appropriate town personnel shall place and
maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective
unless the signs are in place.
      (2)   Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Traffic movement in posted direction. Upon those streets and parts of
streets, and in those alleys designated as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular
traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the
direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where
movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-9)
§ 74.10 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Designation. The Board of Trustees, by motion, ordinance or
resolution, may designate any street or part of a street a through street.
   (B)   Signs posted. Whenever a through street is designated by the Board of
Trustees, the appropriate town personnel shall be directed to place and
maintain a stop sign, or on the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation at any intersection, a yield sign, on each and every street
intersecting such through street unless traffic at any such intersection is
controlled at all times by traffic-control signals.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-10)
§ 74.11 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Stop signs.
      (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      (2)   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed,
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
   (B)   Yield signs.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop
at a clearly marked stop line, or if no stop line, then at the point nearest
the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway.
      (2)   The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the right-of-way to
any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving and
to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely
as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may proceed,
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
to the vehicle so proceeding; provided, however, that if such driver is
involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or vehicle in the
intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such collision
shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his or her failure to yield the right-
of-way.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
Section
   
75.01   Required equipment; use
   
75.02   Muffler required; cutouts
   
75.03   Jake brakes prohibited
   
75.04   Width, height, length, weight, load
   
75.05   Windshields to be unobstructed; wipers required
   
75.06   Inspection of vehicles by officers
   
75.07   Vehicles registration; display of license
   
75.08   Certain vehicles prohibited
§ 75.01 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT; USE.
   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped as
required by 47 O.S. No person shall operate a vehicle upon a street of the town
which is not equipped as required by state law. No person shall fail to use
such equipment in the manner required by the state law, or use it in a manner
prohibited by state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) (Ord. 171, passed 6-26-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.02 MUFFLER REQUIRED; CUTOUTS.
   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise.
No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a town street or highway. No person shall modify the exhaust system
of a motor vehicle in any manner which will amplify or increase the noise or
sound emitted louder than that emitted by the muffler originally installed on
the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2) (Ord. 171, passed 6-26-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.03 JAKE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense within the limits of the town for any
person to use a vehicle brake device which creates an excessive or unusual
noise such as is created by the use of the “Jacobs engine brake” commonly known
as the “jake brake.”
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) (Ord. 171, passed 6-26-2001) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 75.04 WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH, WEIGHT, LOAD.
   No person shall drive or convey through any street or bridge any vehicle the
width, height, length, weight or load of which exceeds the limits established
by the town, county or state as indicated by appropriate signs erected on the
street, road or bridge, unless a permit or approval has been granted therefor
by the state or the Town Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4) (Ord. 171, passed 6-26-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.05 WINDSHIELDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; WIPERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Windshields unobstructed. No person shall drive any motor vehicle with
any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
side wings or side or rear windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s
clear view of the street or highway or any intersecting street or highway.
   (B)   Windshield wipers. The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be
equipped with a device for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the
windshield. Such device shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated
by the driver of the vehicle. Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall
be maintained in good working order.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-5) (Ord. 171, passed 6-26-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.06 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES BY OFFICERS.
   Police officers shall be the authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon
the streets of the town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it
is properly equipped, or whether its equipment is in proper adjustment and
repair.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-6) (Ord. 171, passed 6-26-2001)
§ 75.07 VEHICLES REGISTRATION; DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall operate a vehicle of any kind upon
the street of the town without a state vehicle license tag as may be required
by law.
   (B)   Display of license. No person shall fail to display the state vehicle
license or tag as required by law or attached to any trailer hitch or other
device in a manner as to cover or partially cover the vehicle license.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7) (Ord. 171, passed 6-26-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.08 CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Vehicles injurious to streets. No vehicle or object which injures, or
is likely to injure, the surface of a street shall be driven or moved on any
street.
   (B)   Obstructive and dangerous vehicles; covering loads.
      (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed
or so loaded as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the town
and in accordance with the terms of such permit.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless such
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom, except
that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or
other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
      (3)   No person shall operate on any street any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders or other
loose materials susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason of wind shall have
such load covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the
load from the vehicle.
      (4)   This division (B) shall not apply to trucks loaded with livestock,
poultry or agricultural products only, except baled agricultural products;
however, any such trucks shall be so constructed or loaded as to prevent such
livestock or poultry from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES
      
92.   DILAPIDATED, NEGLECTED OR VACANT BUILDINGS
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   CEMETERY
      
97.   LIBRARY
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Certain public nuisances enumerated
   
90.03   Nuisance prohibited
   
90.04   Person responsible for continuing nuisance
   
90.05   Time does not legalize nuisance
   
90.06   Remedies against nuisances
   
90.07   Power to define and summarily abate nuisance
   
90.08   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
90.09   Health nuisances; abatement
   
90.10   Town actions not to jeopardize private action
   
90.11   Abatement by suit in district court
   
90.12   Procedure cumulative
   
90.13   Obstructing health or enforcement officer
   
90.14   Dumping or disposal of trash on property of another
   
90.15   Littering prohibited generally
   
90.16   Abandoned refrigerators
   
90.17   Open burning; permit
   
90.18   Toilet facilities required
Weeds and Trash
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Accumulation of trash or weeds
   
90.32   Duty of owner, occupant to maintain private property
   
90.33   Reports of accumulation
   
90.34   Cleaning and mowing; nuisance abatement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, or is any
thing or condition which either:
         (a)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
         (d)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use
of property.
      (2)   Provided, however, this definition shall not apply to preexisting
agricultural activities.
   PRIVATE NUISANCE. Every nuisance not included in the definition of PUBLIC
NUISANCE in this section.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A nuisance which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or three or
more properties under separate ownership in the vicinity of such nuisance,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 90.02 CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   Nuisances declared. In addition to other public nuisances declared by
other sections of this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be
public nuisances:
      (1)   The sale or offering for sale of unwholesome food or drink, or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      (2)   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the town, or the keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinances of the town;
      (3)   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects, or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      (4)   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punch boards or otherwise;
      (5)   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      (6)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      (7)   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      (8)   The continued making of loud or unusual noises, music or sounds, or
strong vibrations which annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities, or the keeping
of an animal which makes such noises;
      (9)   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially and unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      (10)   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinances;
      (11)   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow
to fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      (12)   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (13)   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin or disease germs, and the premises on which such exist;
      (14)   (a)   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public
health or safety because of damage, decay or other condition; or
         (b)   Every building or other structure that shall become unsafe and
dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall become hazardous from fire,
by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other cause, or shall be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the town or its inhabitants
from any cause.
      (15)   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (16)   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      (17)   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare;
      (18)   Permitting bagworms to be upon any trees or other plants within
the town;
      (19)   Permitting foul, noxious or offensive odors to escape from
premises, or unusual quantities of dust or other deleterious substances to
escape or emanate across the property line upon which the same originates;
      (20)   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the town, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation;
      (21)   The keeping, in violation of Chapter 93, of any dog kennels within
the town for the breeding and raising of dogs that shall become offensive or
annoying to the public by reason of the barking and noise made by the animals
therein contained;
      (22)   Any vault, cesspool or sink used to receive human excrement,
slops, garbage, refuse or other filthy substance;
      (23)   Any pond, slop, trash, refuse, cobs, manure, decayed or decaying
vegetable matter left, kept or maintained in such condition as to endanger the
public health;
      (24)   The keeping of any hog pen within the limits of the town in
violation of this code;
      (25)   Every privy or water closet which shall be in an overflowing,
leaking or filthy condition, or in a condition dangerous, injurious or annoying
to the comfort, health and welfare of any resident of the town;
      (26)   Any green or unsalted hide of any animal kept in any exposed or
open place within the limits of the town; and/or
      (27)   Any unclean, foul, leaking or broken or defective ditch, drain,
gutter, slop, garbage or manure barrel, box or other receptacle in the town.
   (B)   Enumeration cumulative. The enumeration in division (A) above of
certain public nuisances shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of
law or ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general
or more specific terms.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall create or maintain a nuisance within the town or permit a
nuisance to remain on premises under his or her control within the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTINUING NUISANCE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 90.05 TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE NUISANCE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 90.06 REMEDIES AGAINST NUISANCES.
   (A)   Public nuisances. The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      (1)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      (2)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      (3)   Civil action; or
      (4)   Abatement:
         (a)   By the person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
         (b)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
   (B)   Private nuisances. The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      (1)   Civil action; or
      (2)   Abatement:
         (a)   By the person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
         (b)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6)
§ 90.07 POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the town is empowered to determine what
is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for
the protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water
supply, outside of its corporate limits.
   (B)   Whenever it is practical to do so, the town has the power summarily to
abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner and an opportunity for him or
her to be heard, if this can be done.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 90.08 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Dangerous circumstances. Some nuisances are of such nature as to
constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of one or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized
that circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to require, the town or
other appropriate officer or agency of the town government to take immediate
and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances or to reduce or suspend the
danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   (B)   Submission of statement of nuisance. An officer of the town may submit
a statement as to the existence of a nuisance, as defined by the ordinances of
the town or law, and a request or recommendation that it be abated.
   (C)   Notice to abate; town abatement; costs. The town or its designee shall
determine if a nuisance exists as defined by the ordinances of the town or law.
If a nuisance does in fact exist, town personnel shall direct the owner or
other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance by certified mail, or by
publication if the owner cannot be so served or found, to abate the nuisance
within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the
person or persons or public adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized
by the consequent delay. If such peace, health, safety, morals or welfare would
be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, or if the persons responsible authorize the town to abate the nuisance,
the town shall direct the appropriate officer to abate the nuisance or have it
abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 O.S. § 16. The
town shall send a statement of the cost of such summary abatement to the owner
or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance, as may be just under
the circumstances, if their names and addresses are known. Until paid, such
cost shall constitute a debt to the town collectible as other debts may be
collected.
   (D)   Appeal; hearing. The determination of the existence of a nuisance and
order to abate it, as made by the town, may be appealed by the occupant or
owner or person causing the nuisance by filing a request for hearing in writing
with the town within the period of time specified in the notice for abatement
of the nuisance. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall cause the matter to be placed
on the agenda of the Town Board of Trustees for final determination with
appropriate notice of the hearing provided to the person requesting the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 90.09 HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Town authority; notice to abate.
      (1)   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the town shall
have the authority to order the owner or occupant of any private premises in
the town to remove from such premises, at his or her own expense, any source of
filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of insects or
rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any other
condition adversely affecting the public health, within 24 hours, or within
such other time as may be reasonable.
      (2)   Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the
owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the town or
by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual place of
abode of the owner, occupant or agent, if known and within the state.
      (3)   If the premises are unoccupied, and the residence of the owner,
occupant or agent is unknown or is outside the state, the order may be served
by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least one
issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town.
   (B)   Abatement by town; costs. If the order is not complied with, the town
may cause the order to be executed and complied with, and the cost thereof
shall be certified and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
charged to the owner or occupant, enforceable as a lien or any other method
allowed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9)
§ 90.10 TOWN ACTIONS NOT TO JEOPARDIZE PRIVATE ACTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to abridge the rights of
citizens of the town to bring and maintain actions in the proper courts for the
abatement of private nuisances or those specially injurious to them.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-10)
§ 90.11 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the
town may bring suit in the district court.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11)
§ 90.12 PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by other
provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other. The town
may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating any
particular nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-12)
§ 90.13 OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OR ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with any
health officer or other code enforcement officer charged with the enforcement
of the health or nuisance laws of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-13) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 DUMPING OR DISPOSAL OF TRASH ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   Property. It is unlawful to place, deposit or leave any trash, debris,
refuse or garbage on the property of another or on public property, including
any public street, easement, sidewalk or other public property, except where
such disposal is expressly allowed by law.
   (B)   Dumpster. It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, leave or
dispose of trash, garbage, refuse or debris in any dumpster or trash receptacle
that is located on the property of another without the express consent of the
person on whose property the dumpster or trash receptacle is located.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-14) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 LITTERING PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Trash, refuse, rubbish and all like material.
   (B)   No person shall throw, place, leave, drop, put or otherwise abandon
litter upon any public property, private property or roadway, except as
otherwise specifically permitted in this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-15) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to leave in a place accessible to children any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other container of any kind, of
a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more, which has an airtight door
with a lock or other fastening device which cannot be easily released for
opening from the inside of the icebox, refrigerator or container, without first
removing the door, lock or fastener.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-16) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 OPEN BURNING; PERMIT.
   It is unlawful to burn any fire outside of any enclosed building in the town
for the purpose of burning grass, trash, leaves, weeds, papers, refuse, garbage
or any other substance, except in an approved incinerator, or by obtaining a
permit and payment of such fee as set by the town, or by approval by the Fire
Department as may be allowed by the town fire code and any applicable state or
town regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
      SANITARY PIT PRIVY. A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as
to conform with the specifications approved by the State Health Department.
      SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   (B)   Sanitary facilities required; septic tanks.
      (1)   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans
reside, are employed or congregate within the town shall install, equip and
maintain adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement by
use of a sanitary water closet or a sanitary pit privy.
      (2)   The closets and toilets hereby required shall be of the sanitary
water closet type when located within 150 feet of a sanitary sewer and
accessible thereto and of the sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a
greater distance from a sanitary sewer) or the water closet type emptying into
a septic tank system or the pit privy type.
      (3)   A septic tank system or a pit privy may be used in such cases only
if it meets the standards of, and is approved by, the State Health Department.
   (C)   Disposal of human excrement. All human excrement disposed of within
the town shall be disposed of by depositing it in closets and privies of the
type provided for in this section. It is unlawful for any owner of property
within the town to permit the disposal of human excrement thereon in any other
manner, or for any person to dispose of human excrement within the town in any
other manner.
   (D)   Sanitary condition of privies. All privies shall be kept clean and
sanitary at all times, and the covers of the seats of privies shall be kept
closed at all times when the privies are not being used. No wash water, kitchen
slop or anything other than human excrement and toilet paper shall be emptied
into a privy. No excrement from any person suffering from typhoid fever,
dysentery or other serious bowel disease shall be deposited in any sanitary pit
privy or sanitary water closet until it is disinfected in such a manner as may
be prescribed by the health officer.
   (E)   Maintaining public nuisance.
      (1)   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner
different from that required by this section, and all privies and closets so
constructed, situated or maintained as to endanger the public health are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and may be dealt with and abated as such.
      (2)   Any person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense,
and each day upon which any such nuisance continues is a separate offense.
   (F)   Location near public sewer line; septic tank prohibited.
      (1)   No residence, business or commercial building, nor any other
premises in the town, if located within 300 feet of any public sewer lateral or
main shall be connected to or in any manner served by a septic tank.
      (2)   No such person shall allow the installation, maintenance, operation
or use of any septic tank in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-18) Penalty, see §
90.99
WEEDS AND TRASH
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The person so designated by the Town Board of
Trustees.
   CLEANING. The removal of trash from property.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste or matter of any kind or form which is uncared
for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEED.
      (1)   The term includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or
poison sumac and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption or grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a
hazard to traffic, or create a fire hazard to the property, or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of the weeds;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term does not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 90.31 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH OR WEEDS.
   (A)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or
parcel of land situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the
town to allow trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises.
It is the duty of such owner or occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or
weeds.
      (2)   No owner or occupant of land or lots shall:
         (a)   Knowingly permit the throwing or dumping upon his or her
premises of any refuse, rubbish or trash; or
         (b)   Permit such materials to remain on his or her premises for more
than ten days after being notified to remove them by the town or the County
Health Department, whether or not the owner or occupant knew of or permitted
such throwing or depositing.
   (B)   Abatement. In addition to a penalty for violation of this section or §
90.32, the town may abate as a public nuisance any condition prohibited herein
pursuant to this chapter, any other law or ordinance, all of which shall be
cumulative.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 DUTY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prohibited conditions. No person owning, leasing, occupying or having
charge of any private property or premises shall maintain or keep any refuse,
rubbish, trash or similar material except dirt thereon; nor shall such person
allow the accumulation of any such material; nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of other property in the neighborhood in which the premises are located.
   (B)   Order to abate; notice. No prosecution may be undertaken under this
section until such person shall have been given ten days’ notice by the town of
the condition and an order to fully abate the alleged deficiency.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 REPORTS OF ACCUMULATION.
   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation of trash
or the growth of grass and weeds, or both of these conditions, upon any
premises within the limits of the town shall report the condition to the
Administrative Officer if, as a result of the accumulation or growth, the
premises appear to be:
   (A)   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community;
   (B)   A hazard to traffic;
   (C)   A fire hazard to property; or
   (D)   Any two or more of these conditions.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4)
§ 90.34 CLEANING AND MOWING; NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   The Town Administrative Officer is authorized to cause property within the
town to be cleaned of trash and weeds, or grass to be cut or mowed, and the
nuisance to be abated in accordance with the following procedure:
   (A)   Authority to determine. The Town Administrative Officer or his or her
designee may determine whether the accumulation of trash, growth of weeds or
grass or other nuisances have caused the property to become detrimental to the
health, benefit or welfare of the public and the community or a hazard to
traffic, or create a fire hazard to the danger of the property.
   (B)   Notice to property owner. At least ten days’ notice shall be given to
the owner of the property by mail at the address shown by the current year’s
tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s office before the hearing provided for
herein or before action may be taken. The notice shall order the property owner
to clean the property of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the
property, as appropriate, and the notice shall state that unless the work is
performed within ten days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by
the town and a notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk against the
property for the costs due and owing the town.
   (C)   Receipt of mailing notice. At the time of mailing of notice to the
property owner, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. However, if the property owner cannot be located within
ten days from the date of mailing the same, notice may be given by posting a
copy of the notice on the property or by publication, as provided by 11 O.S. §
1-102(8), one time, not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action.
   (D)   Summary abatement.
      (1)   If the town anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in
accordance with the provisions as herein provided, the notice, whether by mail,
posting or publication, shall state:
         (a)   That any accumulations of trash or excessive weeds or grass
growth on the owner’s property occurring within six months after the removal of
trash or cutting or mowing of weeds or grass on the property pursuant to the
notice may be summarily abated by the town;
         (b)   That the costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the
owner; and
         (c)   That a lien may be imposed on the property to secure such
payment, all without further prior notice to the property owner. At the time of
each summary abatement, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the property
owner of the abatement and costs thereof. The notice shall state that the
property owner may request a hearing within ten days after the date of mailing
the notice. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such
abatement shall be determined and collected as provided in this section.
However, these summary abatement procedures shall not apply if the records of
the County Clerk show that the property was transferred after the notice was
given pursuant to this section.
      (2)   If a notice is given by the town to a property owner ordering the
property to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in
accordance with the procedures provided for in this section, any subsequent
accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the property
occurring within a six-month period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be
summarily abated without further prior notice to the property owner. At the
time of each such summary abatement, the town shall notify the property owner
of the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the
property owner may request a hearing within ten days after the date of mailing
the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in this section.
Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be
determined and collected as provided for in this section. This division (D)(2)
shall not apply if the records of the County Clerk show that the property was
transferred after notice was given pursuant to this section.
   (E)   Written consent of property owner. The owner of the property may give
his or her written consent to the town authorizing the removal of the trash or
the mowing of the weeds or grass. By giving his or her written consent, the
owner waives his or her right to a hearing by the town.
   (F)   Hearing; right to appeal. A hearing may be held by the Town
Administrative Officer to determine whether the accumulation of trash or the
growth of weeds or grass has caused the property to become detrimental to the
health, benefit or welfare of the public and the community, or a hazard to
traffic, or creates a fire hazard to the danger of property. The property owner
shall have a right of appeal to the Town Administrative Officer, except that if
the Town Administrative Officer conducts the initial hearing, then the right of
appeal is to the Town Board of Trustees. The appeal shall be taken by filing
written notice of appeal with the Town Administrative Officer within ten days
after the administrative order is rendered.
   (G)   Clearing or cleaning by town; right of entry.
      (1)   If the Town Administrative Officer finds the condition of the
property constitutes a detriment or hazard and that the property would be
benefited by the removal of such conditions, the Administrative Officer shall
direct the clearing or cleaning be done by one of the following methods:
         (a)   By the town, provided the actual cost of the labor, maintenance
and equipment required does not exceed $1,000; or
         (b)   On a private contract basis, in which case it shall be awarded
to the lowest and best bidder.
      (2)   The agents of the town are granted the right of entry on the
property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, cleaning and
performance of necessary duties as a governmental function of the town.
Immediately following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall file a notice of lien with the County Clerk describing the
property and the work performed by the town, and stating that the town claims a
lien on the property for the cleaning and mowing costs, and that such costs are
the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of filing
of the notice.
   (H)   Determination of costs. After the property has been cleaned, the
Administrative Officer shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning and any
other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith, including the cost
of the notice and mailing. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward by mail to
the property owner specified in this section a statement of the actual cost and
demanding payment.
   (I)   Failure to pay; lien against property. If payment is not made within
30 days from the date of the mailing of the statement, the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the County
Treasurer, and the same shall be levied on the property and collected by the
County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. The cost and the interest
thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the cost is
certified to the County Treasurer and shall continue until the cost shall be
fully paid.
   (J)   Collection of costs; civil remedy. At the time of collection, the
County Treasurer shall collect a fee of $5 for each parcel of property. The fee
shall be deposited to the credit of the General Fund of the county. If the
County Treasurer and the town agree that the County Treasurer is unable to
collect the assessment, the town may pursue a civil remedy for collection of
the amount owing and interest thereon by an action in person against the
property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the property.
A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not owned by the
surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created
pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, if any, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and
directing discharge of the lien.
   (K)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
property used for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day any person is in violation of any provision of this chapter,
and each day any such violation occurs or continues to exist shall be a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-19)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Short title
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Storing, parking prohibited; nuisance; exceptions
   
91.04   Notice to remove
   
91.05   Responsibility for removal
   
91.06   Notice procedure; contents
   
91.07   Hearing; request and procedure
   
91.08   Removal of vehicle from property
   
91.09   Disposition of vehicles
   
91.10   Public sale; notice
   
91.11   Redemption of impounded vehicles
   
91.12   Liability of owner or occupant
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Abandoned, Wrecked,
Dismantled or Inoperative Motor Vehicle Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any MOTOR VEHICLE, as defined in this section, which
does not have lawfully affixed thereto an unexpired license plate or plates,
and the condition of which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled,
inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground, including, but not limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf
carts, campers and trailers.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is privately owned
and which is not PUBLIC PROPERTY as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street or highway, which shall include the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of
vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned property or
facility.
   TOWN. The Town of Gage, Oklahoma.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 91.03 STORING, PARKING PROHIBITED; NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Time limit. No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking,
storing or leaving of any motor vehicle of any kind which is in an abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially dismantled
condition, whether attended or not, upon any public or private property within
the town for a period of time in excess of 72 hours.
   (B)   Nuisance declared. The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled,
inoperative, rusted, junked or partially dismantled vehicle, or parts thereof,
on private or public property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be
abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any vehicle enclosed
within a building on private property, to any vehicle held in connection with a
business enterprise, lawfully licensed by the town and properly operated in the
appropriate business zone, pursuant to the zoning laws of the town, or to any
motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or designed for
operation on drag strips or raceways, or any vehicle retained by the owner for
antique collection purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Whenever it comes to the attention of a municipal official upon a citizen’s
complaint that any nuisance as defined in §
91.03 exists in the town, a notice in writing shall be served upon the occupant
of the land where the nuisance exists, or in case there is no such occupant,
then upon the owner of the property or his or her agent, notifying them of the
existence of the nuisance and requesting its removal in the time specified in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 91.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   Owner responsibility. Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard,
the owner of the abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle and the
owner or occupant of the private property on which the same is located, either
or all of them, shall be responsible for its removal.
   (B)   Removal by town. In the event of removal and disposition by the town,
the owner or occupant of the private property where the same is located shall
be liable for the expenses incurred.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 91.06 NOTICE PROCEDURE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Procedure. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall give notice of removal to
the owner or occupant of the private property where it is located at least 30
days before the time of compliance. It shall constitute sufficient notice when
a copy of the same is posted in a conspicuous place upon the private property
on which the vehicle is located and duplicate copies are sent by registered
mail to the owner or occupant of the private property at his or her last known
address.
   (B)   Contents of notice. The notice shall contain the request for removal
within the time specified in this chapter, and the notice shall advise that
upon failure to comply with the notice to remove, the town or its designee
shall undertake such removal with the cost to be levied against the owner or
occupant of the property.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 91.07 HEARING; REQUEST AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Request for hearing. The persons to whom the notices are directed, or
their duly authorized agents, may file a written request for hearing before the
Board of Trustees or its designee within a 30-day period of compliance
prescribed in §
91.06(A) for the purpose of defending the charge by the town.
   (B)   Procedure for hearing. The hearing shall be held as soon as
practicable after the filing of the request, and the persons to whom the
notices are directed shall be advised of the time and place of said hearing at
least ten days in advance thereof. At any such hearing, the town and the
persons to whom the notices have been directed may introduce such witnesses and
evidence as either party deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 91.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE FROM PROPERTY.
   (A)   Removal by town. If the violation described in the notice has not been
remedied within the 30-day period of compliance, or in the event that a notice
requesting a hearing is timely filed, a hearing is had, and the existence of
the violation is affirmed by the Board of Trustees or its designee, the Chief
of Police or his or her designee shall have the right to take possession of the
junked motor vehicle and remove it from the premises. It shall be unlawful for
any person to interfere with, hinder or refuse to allow such person or persons
to enter upon private property for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Notify owner of removal. Within 48 hours of the removal of the
vehicle, the Chief of Police shall give notice to the registered owner of the
vehicle, if known, and also the owner or occupant of the private property from
which the vehicle was removed, that said vehicle has been impounded and stored
for violation of this chapter. The notice shall give the location of where the
vehicle is stored and the costs incurred by the town for removal.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-8) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES.
   Upon removing a vehicle under the provisions of §
91.08(A), the town, after ten days, shall cause such vehicle to be appraised.
If the vehicle is appraised at $75 or less, the Chief of Police shall execute
an affidavit so attesting and describing the vehicle, including the license
plates, if any, and stating the location and appraised value of the vehicle.
The Chief of Police, after complying with the above, may summarily dispose of
the vehicle and execute a certificate of sale. If the vehicle is appraised at
over $75, the Chief of Police shall give notice of public sale not less than 15
days before the proposed sale.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-9) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 91.10 PUBLIC SALE; NOTICE.
   (A)   Contents of public sale notice. The notice of sale shall state:
      (1)   The sale is of abandoned property in the possession of the town;
      (2)   A description of the vehicle, including make, model, license number
and any other information which will accurately identity the vehicle;
      (3)   The terms of the sale; and
      (4)   The date, time and place of sale.
   (B)   Public sale procedure. The vehicle shall be sold to the highest and
best bidder. At the time of payment of the purchase price, the Chief of Police
shall execute a certificate of sale in duplicate, the original of which to be
given to the purchaser, and a copy thereof to be filed with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. Should the sale for any reason be invalid, the town’s liability
shall be limited to the return of the purchase price.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-10) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 91.11 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   The owner of any vehicle seized after the provisions of this chapter have
taken effect may redeem such vehicle at any time after its removal, but prior
to the sale or destruction thereof, upon proof of ownership and payment to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer of such sum as he or she may determine and fix for the
actual and reasonable expense of removal, and any preliminary sale advertising
expenses, not to exceed $100, plus $75 per day for storage for each vehicle
redeemed.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-11) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 91.12 LIABILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property on which abandoned
vehicles have been removed by the town to pay the unrecovered expenses incurred
by the town in such removal, a lien shall be placed upon the property for the
amount of such expenses.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-12) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in §
10.99. Each act in violation of any of the provisions hereof shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-13) (Ord. 173, passed 8-25-2003)
CHAPTER 92: DILAPIDATED, NEGLECTED OR VACANT BUILDINGS
Section
Condemnation and Removal
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Report of dilapidated building
   
92.03   Condemnation and removal; notice, hearing and costs
   
92.04   Clearing premises from which buildings removed
Boarding and Securing
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Authority
   
92.17   Procedures; notice, hearing and costs
Neglected Vacant Buildings Registry and Maintenance
   
92.30   Findings and purpose
   
92.31   Definitions
   
92.32   Registration and plan
   
92.33   Registration fees
   
92.34   Insurance
   
92.35   Maintenance
   
92.36   Request for exemption
   
92.37   Inspections
   
92.38   Annual reports
 
   
92.99   Penalty
CONDEMNATION AND REMOVAL
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A structure which through neglect or injury lacks necessary repairs
or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent that the
structure is a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of the general public;
      (2)   A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of
necessary repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health,
safety and welfare of the general public;
      (3)   A structure which is determined by the Town Board of Trustees or
Town Administrative Officer to be an unsecured building, as defined in §
92.15, more than three times within any 12-month period;
      (4)   A structure which has been boarded and secured, as defined in this
chapter, for more than 18 consecutive months; or
      (5)   A structure declared by the Town Board to constitute a public
nuisance.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 4-4A-1)
§ 92.02 REPORT OF DILAPIDATED BUILDING.
   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers or receives a report of a
dilapidated building which has become detrimental to the health, benefit and
welfare of the public and the community, or creates a fire hazard to the danger
of property, shall report such conditions to the Town Administrative Officer.
(Prior Code, § 4-4A-2)
§ 92.03 CONDEMNATION AND REMOVAL; NOTICE, HEARING AND COSTS.
   The Town Administrative Officer may cause dilapidated buildings within the
town limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with the following
procedures:
   (A)   Notice to property owner. At least ten days’ notice that a building is
to be torn down or removed shall be given to the owner of the property before
the Town Administrative Officer holds a hearing. A copy of the notice shall be
posted on the property to be affected. In addition, a copy of the notice shall
be sent by mail to the property owner at the address shown by the current
year’s tax rolls in the office of the County Treasurer. Written notice shall
also be mailed to any mortgage holder as shown by the records in the office of
the County Clerk to the last known address of the mortgagee. At the time of
mailing of notice to any property owner or mortgage holder, the town shall
obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall
indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However,
if neither the property owner nor mortgage holder can be located, notice may be
given by posting a copy of the notice on the property, or by publication as
defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102. The notice may be published once not less than ten
days prior to any hearing or action by the town pursuant to the provisions of
this section.
   (B)   Hearing. A hearing shall be held by the Town Administrative Officer to
determine if the property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the
health, safety or welfare of the general public and the community, or if the
property creates a fire hazard which is dangerous to other property.
   (C)   Abatement by town; cost a lien against property. Pursuant to a finding
that the condition of the property constitutes a detriment or a hazard and that
the property would be benefited by the removal of such conditions, the Town
Administrative Officer may cause the dilapidated building to be torn down and
removed. The Administrative Officer shall fix reasonable dates for the
commencement and completion of the work. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
immediately file a notice of dilapidation and lien with the County Clerk
describing the property, the findings of the town at the hearing and stating
that the town claims a lien on the property for the destruction and removal
costs, and that such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date of filing of the notice. The agents of the town are
granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the necessary
duties as a governmental function of the town if the work is not performed by
the property owner within dates fixed by the Administrative Officer. Any action
to challenge the order of the Administrative Officer shall be filed within 30
business days from the date of the order.
   (D)   Determination of cost. The Town Administrative Officer shall determine
the actual cost of the dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and any
other expenses that may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and
removal of the buildings, including the cost of notice and mailing. The Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a statement of the actual cost attributable to
the dismantling and removal of the buildings and a demand for payment of such
costs, by mail to the property owner. In addition, a copy of the statement
shall be mailed to any mortgage holder at the address provided for in division
(A) above. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property
owner or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee. If the town dismantles or removes any dilapidated
buildings, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of
the labor, maintenance and equipment required for the dismantling and removal
of the dilapidated building; provided, that said cost does not exceed $1,000.
If dismantling and removal of the dilapidated buildings is done on a private
contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
   (E)   Payment of costs; lien; collection. When payment is made to the town
for costs incurred, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall file a release of lien, but
if payment attributable to the actual cost of the dismantling and removal of
the buildings is not made within six months from the date of the mailing of the
statement to the owner of such property, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward
a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer. Once
certified to the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to the County
Treasurer except as otherwise provided for in this section. The costs shall be
levied on the property and collected by the County Treasurer as are other taxes
authorized by law. Until finally paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall
be the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of the
notice of dilapidation and lien is filed with the County Clerk. In addition,
the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the
date the notice of the lien is filed with the County Clerk. The lien shall be
coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes, and all other taxes and special
assessments, and shall be prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property. The lien shall continue until the cost is fully paid. At
the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall collect a fee of $5 for each
parcel of property. The fee shall be deposited to the credit of the General
Fund of the county. If the County Treasurer and the town agree that the County
Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the town may pursue a civil
remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon including an
action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose
its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface
interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or
judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such
payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
   (F)   Right to appeal. The property owner shall have the right of appeal to
the Town Administrative Officer, or if the order is rendered by the
Administrative Officer, then the right to appeal is to the Town Board of
Trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten days after the administrative order is
rendered.
(Prior Code, § 4-4A-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-112
§ 92.04 CLEARING PREMISES FROM WHICH BUILDINGS REMOVED.
   In all cases in which a house or building has been removed before the
effective date hereof, or a house or building is torn down or demolished
pursuant to order of the town, the State Fire or Building Official, or as
provided in this subchapter, and in which: the premises have not been cleaned;
the premises are cleaned and all lumber, brick, concrete, cement, plaster,
nails, wire and other materials have not been removed; the materials have been
removed but the cellar space and excavations have not been filled; a cistern or
well has not been filled or safely and securely closed and all openings to
sanitary sewer have not been plugged to meet the requirements of the Town
Superintendent and securely closed; and the lot or lots have not been leveled
and left entirely free from trash or the same be not immediately done, then the
owner of the lot and the person, firm or corporation who tore down the house or
building shall immediately comply with the provisions of this subchapter by
having all of the requirements completed.
(Prior Code, § 4-4A-4)
BOARDING AND SECURING
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARDING AND SECURING or BOARDED AND SECURED. The closing, boarding or
locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the
structure.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY. A structure that, due to lack of necessary
repairs, is considered uninhabitable and is a hazard to the health, safety and
welfare of the general public.
   UNSECURED BUILDING. Any structure which is not occupied by a legal or
equitable owner thereof, or by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner, and into
which there are one or more unsecured openings such as broken windows, unlocked
windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes in the
roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar
hatchways, or other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an
unauthorized entry into the structure.
(Prior Code, § 4-4B-1)
§ 92.16 AUTHORITY.
   After a building has been declared dilapidated, as provided in §§
92.01 through
92.04, and before the commencement of the tearing and removal of a dilapidated
building, the Town Administrative Officer may authorize that such a building be
boarded and secured. However, if the dilapidated building is vacant and unfit
for human occupancy, the Administrative Officer may authorize the structure to
be demolished pursuant to §§
92.01 through
92.04.
(Prior Code, § 4-4B-2)
§ 92.17 PROCEDURES; NOTICE, HEARING AND COSTS.
   The Town Administrative Officer may cause an unsecured building to be
boarded and secured in accordance with the following procedures:
   (A)   Notice to property owner. Before the Town Administrative Officer
orders such action, at least ten days’ notice that such unsecured building is
to be boarded and secured shall be given by mail to any property owners and
mortgage holders as provided in §§
92.01 through
92.04. At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner or mortgage
holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service,
which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of
the mailee. A copy of the notice shall also be posted on the property to be
affected. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage holder can be
located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or
by publication as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102. Such notice shall be published
one time, not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action by the town
pursuant to the provisions of this section. If the Administrative Officer
anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the provisions
of division (I) below, the notice shall state: that any subsequent need for
boarding and securing the building within a six-month period after the initial
boarding and securing of the building pursuant to such notice may be summarily
boarded and secured by the Administrative Officer; that the costs of such
boarding and securing shall be assessed against the owner; and that a lien may
be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without further prior
notice to the property owner or mortgage holder.
   (B)   Written consent of property owner. The owner of the property may give
written consent to the town authorizing the boarding and securing of such
unsecured building and to the payment of any costs incurred thereby. By giving
written consent, the owner waives any right the owner has to a hearing by the
Town Administrative Officer.
   (C)   Hearing. If the property owner does not give written consent to such
actions, a hearing may be held by the Town Administrative Officer to determine
whether the boarding and securing of such unsecured building would promote and
benefit the public health, safety or welfare. Such hearing may be held in
conjunction with a hearing on the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds
or grass on the premises of such unsecured building held pursuant to the
provisions of §
90.34. In making such determination, the Administrative Officer shall apply the
following standard: the Administrative Officer may order the boarding and
securing of the unsecured building when the boarding and securing thereof would
make such building less available for transient occupation, decrease a fire
hazard created by such building, or decrease the hazard that such building
would constitute an attractive nuisance to children. Upon making the required
determination, the Administrative Officer may order the boarding and securing
of the unsecured building.
   (D)   Filing notice of lien with county. After the Town Administrative
Officer orders the boarding and securing of such unsecured building, the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately file a notice of unsecured building and lien
with the County Clerk describing the property, stating the findings of the town
at the hearing at which such building was determined to be unsecured, and
stating that the town claims a lien on the property for the costs of boarding
and securing such building, and that such costs are the personal obligation of
the property owner from and after the date of filing the notice.
   (E)   Right of entry. Pursuant to the order of the Town Administrative
Officer, the agents of the town are granted the right of entry on the property
for the performance of the boarding and securing of such building and for the
performance of all necessary duties as a governmental function of the town.
   (F)   Determination of cost; rendering statement. After an unsecured
building has been boarded and secured, the Town Administrative Officer shall
determine the actual costs of such actions and any other expenses that may be
necessary in conjunction therewith including the cost of the notice and
mailing. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a statement of the actual costs
attributable to the boarding and securing of the unsecured building and a
demand for payment of such costs, by mail to any property owners and mortgage
holders as provided in §
92.03. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner
or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. If the town boards and secures any unsecured building,
the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor,
materials and equipment required for the performance of such actions; provided,
that such cost does not exceed $1,000. If such actions are done on a private
contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
   (G)   Payment and collection of costs. When payment is made to the town for
costs incurred, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall file a release of lien, but if
payment attributable to the actual costs of the boarding and securing of the
unsecured building is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing of
the statement to the owner of such property, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
forward a certified statement of the amount of the costs to the County
Treasurer. Once certified to the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to
the County Treasurer, except as otherwise provided for in this section. At the
time of collection, the County Treasurer shall collect a fee of $5 for each
parcel of property, and such fee shall be deposited to the General Fund of the
county. The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the County
Treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. Until fully paid, the costs and
the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date the notice of unsecured building and lien is filed with
the County Clerk. In addition, the costs and the interest thereon shall be a
lien against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with
the County Clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes,
and all other taxes and special assessments, and shall be prior and superior to
all other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until
the costs and interest are fully paid. If the County Treasurer and the town
agree that the County Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the town
may pursue a civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest
thereon by an action in personam against the property owner and an action in
rem to foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed
from the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and
shall direct discharge of the lien.
   (H)   Right of appeal. The property owner or mortgage holder shall have a
right of appeal to the Town Administrative Officer, or if the order is rendered
by the Town Administrative Officer, then the right to appeal is to the Town
Board of Trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of
appeal with the Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten days after the administrative
order is rendered.
   (I)   Summary abatement. If the Town Administrative Officer causes a
structure within the town limits to be boarded and secured, any subsequent need
for boarding and securing within a six-month period constitutes a public
nuisance and may be summarily boarded and secured without further prior notice
to the property owner or mortgage holder. At the time of each such summary
boarding and securing, the town shall notify the property owner and mortgage
holder of the boarding and securing and the costs thereof. The notice shall
state that the property owner may request an appeal with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer within ten days after the mailing of the notice. The notice and
hearing shall be as provided for in division (A) above. Unless otherwise
determined at the hearing, the cost of such boarding and securing shall be
determined and collected as provided for in divisions (F) and (G) above.
   (J)   Authority to order boarding and securing. The Town Administrative
Officer may determine that a building is unsecured and order that such building
be boarded and secured in the manner provided for in this section even though
such building has not been declared, by the Town Administrative Officer, to be
dilapidated.
   (K)   Exception. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any
property zoned and used for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-4B-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-112.1
NEGLECTED VACANT BUILDINGS REGISTRY AND MAINTENANCE
§ 92.30 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Findings. It is the finding of the town that neglected vacant
buildings and residential structures are unsightly, unsafe and have a negative
effect on the community. If left unoccupied and unmonitored, these buildings
and residential structures will fall into a state of disrepair, become a haven
for criminal activity and create a blight on the area.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the health,
safety, morals and welfare of the citizens of the town by establishing a
program for identifying and registering neglected vacant buildings and
residential structures, to set forth the responsibilities of owners of such
properties and to speed the rehabilitation or demolition of neglected vacant
buildings and residential structures.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1) (Ord. 182, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 92.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. That the condition of a building, structure or any part thereof
is an imminent, immediate and substantial danger to the health or safety of
occupants, emergency responders and/or the general public. Such conditions
include, but are not limited to: fire hazards; falling or dilapidated
buildings, structures or any part thereof; loss of significant water, heat or
ventilation; or lack of sanitary conditions.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any duly authorized town employee, the Town Fire
Department’s office or the Town Police Department.
   NEGLECTED VACANT BUILDING/RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A building, regardless of the use, the square footage or the
presence of more than one living unit, a portion of a building or residential
structure, or a structure which is any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Unoccupied and unsecured;
         (b)   Unoccupied and secured by other than normal means;
         (c)   Unoccupied and an unsafe building or residential structure with
suspected code violations as determined by an enforcement officer; and/or
         (d)   Unoccupied and an enforcement officer has issued an order to
correct code violations.
      (2)   For the purpose of this definition, only the following properties
are exempt:
         (a)   All properties owned by the federal government or the state, and
all political subdivisions thereof; and
         (b)   All secondary residential structures, i.e., garage apartments
and the like located on or contiguous to property with an occupied principal
residence, as long as they do not violate this code, are secured and meet all
applicable code requirements, are exempt from both the $50 annual registration
fee and the $500 annual vacant buildings/structures fee.
   OWNER. The person, persons or entity shown to be the owner or owners of
record as listed by the current year’s tax rolls of the County Treasurer; those
identified as the owner or owners on a vacant buildings and residential
structures registration form; a mortgagee in possession, a mortgagor in
possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor, administrator, trustee or
lessee; or other person, firm or corporation in control of the premises. Any
such person or entity shall have joint and several obligations for compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   SECURED BY OTHER THAN NORMAL MEANS. The condition when a building or
residential structure is secured by means other than those used in the design
and approved plans for the building.
   UNOCCUPIED. The condition when a building or residential structure or a
portion thereof lacks the habitual presence of human beings who have a legal
right to be on the premises, including buildings or residential structures
ordered vacated by an enforcement officer. In determining whether a building or
residential structure is unoccupied, the enforcement officer may consider these
factors, among others:
         (1)   Whether lawful residential or business activity has ceased;
         (2)   The percentage of the overall square footage of the occupied to
unoccupied space or the overall number of occupied and unoccupied units and
their proximity to each other;
         (3)   The building or residential structure is substantially devoid of
contents or the fixtures or personal property located in the building or
residential structure are of a minimal value;
         (4)   The building or residential structure lacks utility services;
         (5)   The building or residential structure is the subject of a
foreclosure action;
         (6)   Duration of vacancy; and/or
         (7)   The presence or reoccurrence of code violations.
   UNSECURED. The condition when a building or residential structure, or
portion of a building or residential structure, is open to entry by
unauthorized persons without the use of tools or ladders.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) (Ord. 182, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 92.32 REGISTRATION AND PLAN.
   (A)   Registration required; identifying structures; notice.
      (1)   The owner of a neglected vacant building or residential structure
shall register with the town office no later than 30 days after any building or
residential structure becomes a neglected vacant building/residential
structure, as defined in §
92.31, or not later than 30 days after the date of mailing by an enforcement
officer of notice of the requirement to register.
      (2)   An enforcement officer may identify neglected vacant buildings or
residential structures through his or her routine inspection process as well as
through notification by residents, neighborhood associations, community groups
and others that a building or residential structure may be eligible for
inclusion on the registry.
      (3)   Notice may be sent by first class mail to the owner at the address
shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s office. At the
time of mailing of the notice to the owner, the town shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the addressee. Notice will be deemed
received by the owner or any other addressee, as the case may be, upon personal
delivery or three days after the date the notice is placed in United States
mail with proper postage. The town may also post notices on the subject
property. However, the town’s failure to post notices will not constitute a
defense to any enforcement proceeding or collection of fines.
   (B)   Failure of owner to register. If the owner fails to register the
subject property within 30 days following the date of mailing of the notice
required in division (A) above, the town may prepare and file in the office of
the County Clerk a notice describing the property, the reason it is deemed a
neglected vacant structure in accordance with this subchapter and placing the
owner and his or her successors on notice of the requirement to comply with
this subchapter.
   (C)   Information on registration. The registration shall be submitted on
forms provided by the Town Clerk-Treasurer and shall include the following
information:
      (1)   A description of the premises, i.e., square footage, number of
stories, age of the building and most recent use of the building or residential
structure;
      (2)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owner or owners.
If the owner is a corporation, limited liability company or partnership, the
address for each director, manager, member or partner, as the case may be. The
address must include a street address; post office box is not acceptable;
      (3)   The names and addresses of all known lienholders and all other
parties with an ownership interest in the building. Each address must include a
street address; a post office box is not acceptable.
      (4)   A name, address and telephone number of an authorized, responsible
natural person (not a corporation, partnership or limited liability company)
who is authorized to act for the owner and is a local resident who can be
reached at all times during business and nonbusiness hours in case of an
emergency. The address must include a street address; a post office box is not
acceptable;
      (5)   A neglected vacant building or residential structure plan as
described in division (D) below; and
      (6)   Insurance verifications per §
92.34.
   (D)   Plan required; proposals. The owner shall submit a neglected vacant
building/residential structure plan which must meet the approval of the town
office. The town office may consult with the Fire Department office, as the
case may be, to determine the appropriate plan. The plan, at a minimum, must
include one of the following proposals for the property:
      (1)   If the building or residential structure is to be demolished: a
demolition plan indicating the proposed time frame for demolition;
      (2)   If the building or residential structure is to remain unoccupied: a
plan for the securing of the building in accordance with standards approved by
the town code enforcement officer, along with the procedure that will be used
to maintain the property as code compliant, and a statement of the reason(s)
why the building or residential structure should be left unoccupied;
      (3)   If the building or residential structure is to be returned to
appropriate occupancy or use: rehabilitation plans for the building or
residential structure. The rehabilitation plans shall not exceed 365 days from
the date of submission and shall include progress benchmarks at least every
four months, unless the code enforcement officer/office grants an extension.
Any repairs, improvements or alterations to the property must comply with any
applicable zoning, housing, historic preservation and all applicable building
codes. The building must be secured in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter during the rehabilitation; or
      (4)   Should the owner elect the provisions of division (D)(2) above
(structure to remain unoccupied) or division (D)(3) above (structure to be
rehabilitated) then, in addition to the written plan, the owner must submit the
insurance as described in §
92.34 or deposit with the town, to be held in escrow, an amount of cash
sufficient to cover the costs of demolition of the subject structure in the
event the owner fails to perform as promised in the plan.
   (E)   Plan approval notice to county. If the plan is approved, a written
notice prepared by the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be recorded in the office of
the County Clerk containing information regarding the registration of the
subject property pursuant to this subchapter and the plan selected by the
owners.
   (F)   Compliance by owner. If the plan is approved, the owner shall comply
with all applicable laws and codes. The owner shall notify the code enforcement
officer/office of any changes in the plan at least 30 days prior to the change.
If the plan or timetable for the vacant building/residential structure is
revised in any way, the revisions must be in writing and must meet the approval
of the enforcement officer.
   (G)   Keeping building secure, grounds maintained. The owner and any
subsequent owner shall keep the building secured and safe and the building and
grounds properly maintained as provided hereafter.
   (H)   Noncompliance; town authority. Failure of the owner or any subsequent
owner to maintain the building or residential structure and premises as
required herein will be grounds for the town to do any or all of the following:
      (1)   Cause the building or residential structure to comply with this
subchapter and bill the costs of same to the owner as provided in §
92.35;
      (2)   Revoke the rehabilitation plans; and
      (3)   Subject the owner to fees and penalties as provided in this
subchapter.
   (I)   Notify town of transfer of ownership. The owner shall notify the Town
Clerk-Treasurer’s office of any transfer of ownership a minimum of 15 days
prior to the transfer. Before taking title, the new owner must agree in writing
to comply with the approved plan and timetable submitted by the previous owner
until any proposed changes are submitted in writing to and approved by the
enforcement officer/office.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3) (Ord. 182, passed 6-25-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.33 REGISTRATION FEES.
   (A)   Registration fee.
      (1)   The owner of a neglected vacant building or residential structure
shall pay a registration fee of $50 per year for each such structure he or she
owns.
      (2)   The $50 registration fee is due and payable upon registration no
later than 30 days after any building or structure becomes a neglected vacant
building/residential structure, as defined in §
92.31, or no later than 30 days after being notified by an enforcement officer
of the requirement to register.
   (B)   Annual fee. If the building or structure is to remain unoccupied
pursuant to §
92.32(D)(2), then the owner shall also pay an annual neglected vacant building
or residential structure fee of $500 for each such building or structure that
has received a notice of code violation within the previous 24 months until the
building is properly demolished or rehabilitated for lawful occupancy. The $500
annual neglected vacant building or residential structure fee is due and
payable together with the $50 registration fee, and on each anniversary
thereafter until the building or residential structure is demolished or
rehabilitated for lawful occupancy.
   (C)   Additional fee for failure to complete rehabilitation.
      (1)   If the building or structure is to be returned to a permitted use
pursuant to §
92.32(D)(3), the rehabilitation plan shall not exceed 365 days and shall
include progress benchmarks at least every four months, unless the enforcement
officer grants an extension. If the rehabilitation has not been completed in
accordance with the plan, then the owner shall pay an annual neglected vacant
building or residential structure fee of $500 until the building or residential
structure is properly demolished or rehabilitated for lawful occupancy.
      (2)   The $500 annual neglected vacant building or residential fee is
payable either on each anniversary of the payment of the $50 registration fee
in division (A) above, or no later than 15 days after being notified by an
enforcement officer that the owner has failed to meet a required benchmark,
whichever date is earlier, and on each anniversary thereafter until the
building or residential structure is demolished or rehabilitated for lawful
occupancy.
   (D)   Transfer of ownership.
      (1)   All required fees and other charges noted herein shall be paid by
the owner prior to any transfer of an ownership interest in any neglected
vacant building or residential structure.
      (2)   The owner shall give a purchaser written notice that the building
or residential structure in question is a neglected vacant building or
residential structure required to be registered under this section.
   (E)   Payment of fees; late fee.
      (1)   The neglected vacant building or residential structure registration
fees and annual vacant building or residential structure fees as set forth
herein are to be delivered, by mail or in person, to the Town Clerk-Treasurer
at P.O. Box 328, Gage, OK 73843.
      (2)   A late fee of 1.5% per month or any part thereof will be assessed
on any invoice which is unpaid after 30 days from the date of the demand for
payment of an invoice.
      (3)   A $35 processing fee will be charged for each check returned by the
bank due to insufficient funds or other reason.
      (4)   A replacement payment must be made in cash, money order or bank or
certified check and must include the $35 fee and any applicable late fees.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4) (Ord. 182, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 92.34 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Insurance required. As required in §
92.32(D)(4), the owner shall procure and keep in full force and effect at all
times during the registration term, commercial general liability insurance
coverage (including, but not limited to, premises/operations and personal
injury) or like coverage, protecting the town against any and all claims for
damages to persons or property as a result of, or arising out of, the
registrant’s operation, maintenance or use of the vacant building, with minimum
combined bodily injury (including death) and property damage limits of not less
than $300,000.
   (B)   Insurance policy requirements.
      (1)   The insurance policy must be written by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, acceptable to the town and issued in a
standard form approved by the State Department of Insurance.
      (2)   All provisions of the policy must be acceptable to the town and
must name the town and its officers and employees as additional insured and
provide for 30 days’ prior written notice to the town of cancellation, non-
renewal or material change to the insurance policy.
   (C)   Certificate of insurance. An owner shall provide to the town offices
an updated certificate of insurance for the neglected vacant building or
structure every six months that the building is required to be registered under
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-5) (Ord. 182, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 92.35 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Care of buildings and grounds.
      (1)   The owner of any neglected vacant building or residential structure
shall take such steps and perform such acts as may be required of him or her
from time to time to ensure that the building and its grounds remain safe and
secure and do not present a hazard to the adjoining property or the public.
      (2)   Owners shall be responsible for maintaining their buildings and
structures so that they comply with all applicable building codes and do not
deteriorate into nuisances as defined in Chapter 90.
   (B)   Maintenance of exterior. The owner shall protect and maintain the
exterior of the building or residential structure as follows.
      (1)   Exterior walls, including foundations, will be maintained so that
water does not penetrate into basements, cellars or other interior areas. All
exterior walls and foundations must be free of holes and crevices.
      (2)   Exterior doors, windows, skylights and similar openings will be
maintained weathertight.
      (3)   Exterior stairs, porches, entrance platforms, fire escapes and the
railings thereon shall be maintained in a safe and sound condition.
      (4)   Roofs shall be maintained in weathertight condition.
      (5)   Exterior surfaces shall be maintained in good condition. Surfaces
not inherently resistant to deterioration shall be treated with a protective
coating of paint or other suitable preservative.
      (6)   The coverings for windows and doors with glass may not consist of
any substance sprayed onto the glass doors or windows. All enclosures shall be
properly fitted and be of such material and surface that they are neither
unsightly, nor will materially detract from the general appearance of the
building or the neighborhood and, when possible, secured by normal means.
      (7)   The coverings for broken doors and cracked or broken windows may
consist of replacement glass, plexiglass, boards, plywood or similar materials
finished and maintained in compliance with applicable building codes. The
materials will be designed and of such color so as to blend in with the finish
of the building.
      (8)   The premises shall be kept free of insects and vermin and will be
treated if necessary.
      (9)   Any excavation, swimming pool or other attractive nuisance must be
filled in or properly closed in compliance with applicable building codes.
      (10)   All combustible items must be removed and swept clean from the
premises within the first 30 days of registration.
   (C)   Standards for commercial and retail buildings. In addition to the
standards prescribed in divisions (A) and (B) above, vacant commercial and
retail buildings shall comply with the following standards.
      (1)   The coverings for broken doors and cracked or broken windows may
consist of replacement glass, plexiglass, boards, plywood or similar materials
finished and maintained in compliance with applicable codes. The material shall
be designed and of such color so as to blend in with the finish of the
buildings.
      (2)   All exterior signs, awnings and lighting systems, if not removed,
shall be maintained in a non-deteriorated and safe condition.
   (D)   Maintain interior of buildings. The owner shall protect and maintain
the interior of the building as follows.
      (1)   Structural members will be maintained to resist and prevent
deterioration.
      (2)   Unheated attics, spaces below flat roofs and crawl spaces will be
ventilated to minimize deterioration.
      (3)   Ceilings, walls, floors and stairways will be maintained in a non-
deteriorated and safe condition.
   (E)   Maintenance of premises. The owner shall maintain the premises as
follows.
      (1)   The owner shall not permit garbage and refuse to accumulate.
      (2)   The owner shall maintain yards and vacant lots trimmed and mowed,
with the height of grass and weeds being no more than 12 inches, and clean and
free of physical hazards, and rodent harborage and infestation as required by
§§
90.30 through
90.34.
      (3)   Buildings and structures will be maintained free of insects, vermin
and rodent harborage and infestation.
      (4)   Refrigerators and similar equipment with locking mechanisms will
not be discarded, abandoned or stored at the premises.
      (5)   Junked motor vehicles, as defined in §
91.02, and other illegal equipment or materials will not be stored at the
premises.
      (6)   Chimneys, smokestacks, flues, gas vents, smoke pipes and connectors
will be maintained structurally safe and smoketight.
      (7)   If the building or residential structure is to be demolished or
remain vacant, then, within ten days of registering the building/residential
structure as a vacant building or residential structure, all fuel gas, water
and utilities must be disconnected at the mains and the water pipes drained. If
the building or residential structure is going to be rehabilitated, then the
building or residential structure must be heated to avoid freezing pipes; fuel
gas pipe systems must be maintained gastight, safe and in working condition,
and water pipes must be maintained to avoid leaks and/or breakage.
      (8)   Fuel tanks will be maintained so as not to be a hazard or will be
disconnected in a manner consistent with the International Fire Code.
      (9)   The domestic water supply system of the building will be connected
to an approved source, will not be subject to contamination and will not be
connected to unsafe water supplies, or the system will be disconnected at the
main and completely drained.
      (10)    Stormwater drainage systems will be maintained so as to function
properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects. Sewage systems
will be similarly maintained or will be sealed so as to prevent accumulation of
sewage gases in buildings.
      (11)   Electrical fixings, devices, wiring and systems will be maintained
in safe working condition in a manner which will avoid a potential source of
ignition or shock, or service will be discontinued.
      (12)   Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators will be maintained or taken
out of service in accordance with applicable provisions of the building code.
   (F)   Noncompliance by owner; town authority; assessment of costs.
      (1)   Whenever the owner of a neglected vacant building or residential
structure fails to comply with a notice from an enforcement officer to take
steps and perform acts as are required of him or her to ensure that a building
or residential structure and its adjoining yards remain safe and secure and do
not present a hazard to adjoining property, the town may, pursuant to an
emergency, enter into the building or residential structure and the property
and take steps and perform acts to render the building or residential structure
and its adjoining yards safe, secure and free from hazards to adjoining
property and the public.
      (2)   These acts will include, but not be limited to: removal of
dangerous conditions; properly replacing or boarding up windows and doors;
shutting off utilities; capping plumbing to prevent leakage of water or sewer
gas; or removing flammable or otherwise hazardous material or debris; and
mowing. A bill for the expenses incurred above will be presented to the owners
of the building or residential structure consistent with the provisions
outlined in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-6) (Ord. 182, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 92.36 REQUEST FOR EXEMPTION.
   A building which has suffered fire damage or damage caused by extreme
weather conditions will be exempt from the registration requirement for a
period of 90 days after the date of the fire or extreme weather event, if the
property owner submits a request for exemption in writing to the town office.
This request must include the following information supplied by the owner:
   (A)   A description of the premises;
   (B)   The reason for an exemption;
   (C)   The names and addresses of the owner or owners; a post office box is
not acceptable; and
   (D)   A statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the building in an
expedient manner, or the intent to demolish the building.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-7) (Ord. 182, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 92.37 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   By registering a neglected vacant building, an owner may consent to an
enforcement officer inspecting the premises for the purpose of enforcing and
assuring compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. Upon the request of
the enforcement officer, an owner may provide access to all interior portions
of a vacant building in order to permit a complete inspection.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein, however, will diminish the owner’s right to
insist upon the procurement of a search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction by the enforcement officer or his or her designee, in order to
enable such inspection, and the enforcement officer shall be required to obtain
a search warrant whenever an owner refuses to permit a warrantless inspection
of the premises after having been advised of his or her constitutional right to
refuse entry without a warrant being obtained. In the case of an emergency, as
defined herein, a warrantless entry/search is permitted.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-8) (Ord. 182, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 92.38 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   Once a year, the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall send to the Mayor
and the Board of Trustees a list of all registered neglected vacant buildings
and residential structures in the town, as well as a list of all previously
registered neglected vacant buildings and residential structures which are no
longer subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-9) (Ord. 182, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, including, but
not limited to, failure to register or providing false information to the
enforcement officer, shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Such person shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99; and each day will be construed as a separate offense.
      (2)   The term PERSON, as used in this division (A), shall include the
owner, occupant, mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents,
receiver, executor, administrator, trustee, lessee, agent or any other person,
firm or corporation directly or indirectly in control of the building or
residential structure or part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-10)
   (B)   Any person who shall tear down or begin the tearing down of any house
or building within the town limits without having first procured a permit
therefor shall be guilty of an offense against the town and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-4A-5)
   (D)   If the owner of a neglected vacant building or residential structure
fails to register and pay the fees in a timely manner, then the owner shall be
subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4)
(Ord. 182, passed 6-25-2012)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Dog and cat licenses required
   
93.03   Vaccination of dog and cats
   
93.04   Rabies and animal bites; procedure
   
93.05   Unlicensed kennels prohibited
   
93.06   Running at large; citing owner; confinement
   
93.07   Control and proper care of animals
   
93.08   Buildings for animals; location; livestock
   
93.09   Noisy animals; nuisance; vicious animal
   
93.10   Pasturing of animals
   
93.11   Dangerous animals; attacks prohibited
   
93.12   Cruelty to animals
   
93.13   Impoundment, disposition and adoption of animals
   
93.14   Investigations for violation of chapter
   
93.15   Records and reports
   
93.16   Zoning ordinance to prevail
   
93.17   Hearing and adjudication
   
93.18   Responsibility and liability of property owner
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, including, but not limited to, dog, cat, horse, mule,
donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, rabbit, turkey or other animal or fowl.
   AT LARGE.
      (1)   Not securely confined by a fence or other means on the premises
under the control of, or occupied by, the owner; or
      (2)   Not under the control of the owner or a competent person able to
safely and humanely restrain the animal with a substantial leash or chain not
more than four feet in length and of sufficient strength to control the actions
of the animal if off the premises of the owner.
   ATTACK. Violent or aggressive physical contact.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal, other than domestic dogs and cats, which in
the wild state is carnivorous or which because of its nature or physical makeup
is capable of inflicting serious physical harm or death to human beings,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Within the scientific order Carnivora, animals of the scientific
family:
         (a)   Canidae, such as wolves, coyotes and jackals;
         (b)   Felidae, including, but not limited to, the genetic lineages;
lynx, such as lynxes and bobcats; ocelot, such as ocelots and margays; panther,
such as lions, tigers, leopards and jaguars; puma, such as cougars (mountain
lions) and cheetahs;
         (c)   Hyaenidae, such as hyenas; and/or
         (d)   Ursidae, such as bears.
      (2)   Snakes, rear-fanged and constrictors, of the scientific family:
         (a)   Boidae, such as boa constrictors and anacondas;
         (b)   Elapidae, such as cobras and death adders;
         (c)   Pythonidae, such as pythons; and/or
         (d)   Viperidae, including both true vipers and pit vipers, such as
adders, asps, rattlesnakes, copperheads and cottonmouths.
   FOWL. Chickens, guineas, geese, ducks and pigeons.
   OWNER or KEEPER or HARBORER. Any person, group of persons or corporation
owning, keeping, maintaining or harboring, or having permanent or temporary
care or custody of an animal or animals or fowl or birds.
   POTENTIALLY VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that, when unprovoked:
      (1)   Acts as if it intends to bite a human, dog, cat, animal or
livestock, whether on public or private property;
      (2)   Chases or approaches a human upon a public way in a threatening
fashion as if to inflict injury or serious harm; and/or
      (3)   Demonstrates aggressive behavior, which requires a human to take
defensive or evasive action to avoid physical contact with the animal.
   PROVOKE or PROVOCATION. With respect to an attack by an animal, means that
the animal was hit, kicked or struck by a person with an object or part of a
person’s body, or that any part of the animal’s body is pulled, pinched or
squeezed by a person.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Physical harm involving a substantial risk
of death, partial or total permanent incapacity, permanent or temporary serious
disfigurement, or acute pain lasting long enough to result in substantial
suffering or causing any degree of prolonged or incurable pain.
   TOWN. Properties within the incorporated limits of the Town of Gage,
Oklahoma, including, but not limited to, other properties owned or controlled
by the town, such as the areas encompassing the Artesian Beach, the Municipal
Airport, the town’s public works wastewater lagoons and the town cemetery.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. With the exception of police dogs, means:
      (1)   An animal which, while unleashed and off the premises of its owner,
has attacked, menaced, chased, displayed threatening or aggressive behavior, or
otherwise threatened or endangered the safety of any domestic animal or person;
      (2)   An animal which, while unleashed and off the premises of its owner,
has bitten a human being or domestic animal without provocation;
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily, or in part, for the purpose
of fighting, or any animal trained for fighting; or
      (4)   An animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings or domestic animals.
   WITHOUT PROVOCATION. That an animal was not teased, tormented or abused, and
also where the animal was not protecting its owner or owner’s property from
criminal activity by a perpetrator of a crime.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1) (Ord. passed 2- -2011)
§ 93.02 DOG AND CAT LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   License required; conditions; fee. No person shall own, keep, harbor
or have custody of any dog or cat over six months of age without first
obtaining a license from the Town Clerk-Treasurer. This is done by providing
the Clerk-Treasurer with a description of the dog, including its name, breed
and sex, the owner’s or keeper’s name and address and paying the required fee.
Said license must be renewed on or before March 31 of each year thereafter.
   (B)   Fee set by Town Board. The license fee for animals shall be as set by
the town by motion or resolution and shall expire annually.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a dog or cat only
temporarily brought and kept within the town for a period less than 15 days;
nor to a dog brought within the town to participate in a dog show; nor to a
guide dog, signal dog or service dog that is actually being used by a blind,
physically handicapped, deaf or hard of hearing person to aid that person in
going from place to place.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 VACCINATION OF DOG AND CATS.
   (A)   Vaccination required; certificate.
      (1)   The owner or harborer of any dog or cat shall have it vaccinated
against rabies by a veterinarian or other authorized person before reaching six
months of age, and thereafter shall maintain a current vaccination schedule as
recommended by the manufacturer of the rabies vaccine.
      (2)   The person vaccinating the dog or puppy, or cat, shall furnish a
certificate of vaccination which shall be maintained by the owner or harborer
of the animal.
   (B)   Written proof necessary. Unless the owner of any dog or cat furnishes
written proof that the dog or cat has been vaccinated for rabies, by a licensed
person, in accordance with division (A) above, the owner shall be guilty of an
offense.
   (C)   Issuance of tag. When a veterinarian vaccinates a dog or cat against
rabies, he or she shall issue to the owner of such dog or cat a metal tag or
check evidencing such vaccination and the year of vaccination.
   (D)   Tag attached to animal. It shall be the duty of the owner of the dog
or cat to attach the tag issued to him or her, pursuant to division (C) above,
to the dog or cat, and it shall be unlawful for any person to remove such tag
without the owner’s consent.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-3) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 RABIES AND ANIMAL BITES; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Animal bites; rabies examination; quarantine.
      (1)   Every animal that bites or scratches a person shall be reported
within four hours to the animal control officer and shall thereupon be securely
quarantined at a veterinarian hospital for a period of ten days from the date
the person was bitten and shall not be released from such quarantine except by
permission of the animal control officer of the town and the veterinarian in
charge of the quarantined animal. Such quarantine may be at any veterinarian
hospital chosen by the owner. Failure of the owner or keeper to quarantine his
or her animal within the four-hour period herein will make him or her guilty of
an offense.
      (2)   The owner, upon demand by any town officer or animal control
officer, shall surrender any animal that has bitten or scratched a human, or
which is suspected as having been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine
testing or euthanasia, the expense for which shall be borne by the owner. The
animal may be reclaimed by the owner, if adjudged free of rabies.
   (B)   Rabies diagnoses; quarantine of town; time limit.
      (1)   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid,
or suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under
such observation, the animal control officer or veterinarian shall immediately
send the head of such animal to the State Health Department for pathological
examination and shall notify the proper public health officer of reports of
human contacts and diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
      (2)   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the
health or animal control officer of the town may recommend a town-wide
quarantine for a period of six months; and upon the invoking of such
quarantine, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the
streets during such period of quarantine. During such quarantine, no animal
shall be taken or shipped from the town without written permission of the
animal control officer of the town.
      (3)   During such period of rabies quarantine as herein designated, every
animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be treated for such
rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian, or held under six months’
quarantine by the owner in the same manner as other animals are quarantined.
      (4)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies
occurring during the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be
extended for an additional six months.
   (C)   Killing or removing rabid animal prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting or
scratching a human, except as herein provided, nor remove the animal from the
town limits without written permission from the health officer of the town, or
the animal control officer.
      (2)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall, upon
demand, be surrendered to the animal control officer.
      (3)   The animal control officer shall direct the disposition of any
animal found to be infected with rabies.
      (4)   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for
quarantine or destruction as required herein when demand is made therefor by an
employee empowered to enforce this chapter. Such refusal shall be deemed an
offense.
   (D)   Reports of bite cases.
      (1)   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other
practitioner to report to the animal control officer the names and addresses of
persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other
information as will be helpful in rabies control.
      (2)   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the
animal control officer his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or
her to be a rabid suspect.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-4) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 UNLICENSED KENNELS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      KENNEL. Any structure or premises on which three or more dogs over four
months of age are kept.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a dog
kennel within the town limits.
   (C)   Exception. This section shall not apply to a female dog with a litter
of puppies for a period of 60 days after the birth of such puppies.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-5) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 RUNNING AT LARGE; CITING OWNER; CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited.
      (1)   No owner shall permit any animal, including fowl, owned, harbored
or kept by him or her, to be at large within the town.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any animal to be at large within the town.
   (B)   Confinement required; means of confinement.
      (1)   Every person who owns, possesses or harbors any dog within the town
shall confine the dog to property owned or controlled by him or her.
      (2)   Confinement shall be accomplished by means of a substantial fence
or similar enclosure of sufficient strength and height to prevent the dog from
escaping therefrom, or from extending its head through the enclosure, or by
keeping the dog inside a house or other building.
   (C)   Tethering conditions and restrictions.
      (1)   Dogs not confined in enclosures may be confined by a tether. Such
tether shall consist of a metal chain or other material of sufficient strength
to prevent the dog from escaping the property.
      (2)   The tether shall be long enough to permit the dog to have
reasonable exercise but shall not allow the dog access to public property or
sidewalks or rights-of-way or to property owned by or leased by persons other
than the owner of the animal.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tether an animal at any time
in a manner that unreasonably limits the dog’s movements.
      (4)   The tether shall not use a collar that is pinch type, prong type or
choke type, or that is not properly fitted to the dog.
      (5)   The tether shall be a length shorter than either five times the
length of the dog, or ten feet in length.
      (6)   The tether shall not:
         (a)   Be in an unsafe condition;
         (b)   Cause injury to the dog; or
         (c)   Exceed one-twentieth of the dog’s body weight.
   (D)   Impoundment; citing owner. Any animal running at large in the town may
be taken up and impounded at the animal shelter. The animal control officer
may, at his or her discretion, cite the owner of such animal to appear in
Municipal Court to answer charges of violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-6) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 CONTROL AND PROPER CARE OF ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any owner or person to:
   (A)   Allow or fail to prevent any animal from running at large within the
town;
   (B)   Perform, do or carry out any inhumane treatment against any animal;
   (C)   Keep, possess, own, control, maintain, use or otherwise exercise
dominion over any animal or animals which by reason of noise, odor or sanitary
conditions become offensive to a reasonable and prudent person of ordinary
tastes and sensibilities, or which constitute or become a health hazard as
determined by the health officer or animal control officer; or
   (D)   Turn any animal at large or release an animal, which is restrained or
confined in an enclosure as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-7) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS; LOCATION; LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Appropriate shelters required; drainage.
      (1)   Natural or artificial shelters appropriate to the local climatic
conditions for the particular species of animal or fowl shall be provided for
all animals or fowl kept outdoors.
      (2)   A suitable method of drainage shall be provided to rapidly
eliminate excess water.
      (3)   (a)   A shelter for a dog or cat shall consist of a moistureproof
and windproof structure of suitable size to accommodate the animal and to allow
retention of body heat. It shall be made of durable material, with a solid
floor raised at least two inches from the ground.
         (b)   The opening shall face away from the prevailing winds or be
covered by a flexible windproof material or a self-closing swinging door. Every
building or place where any animal or fowl is kept shall be constructed of such
material and in such manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all
times.
   (B)   Location. No place where an animal is kept shall be kept closer than
40 feet to the premises of an apartment, hotel, restaurant, boarding house,
food store, building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or
dwelling other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon
which the animal is kept.
   (C)   Receptacles for manure.
      (1)   Every building where any animal is kept, if located within 200 feet
of any apartment, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, food store, building used
for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or any dwelling other than
that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which the animal is
kept, shall be provided with a watertight and flytight receptacle for manure of
such size to hold all accumulation of manure.
      (2)   The receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such
manner as to prevent it from becoming a nuisance and shall be kept covered at
all times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse.
      (3)   No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in
the receptacle.
   (D)   Inspection.
      (1)   The animal control officer or health officer shall inspect any
structure or place where an animal is kept, on his or her own initiative or
upon complaint.
      (2)   He or she may issue any such reasonable order as he or she may deem
necessary to the owner of such animal to cause the animal to be kept as
required in this chapter or in a manner so as to not constitute a nuisance.
      (3)   He or she may make a complaint before the Town Court against any
person for violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any such
reasonable order.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-8) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 NOISY ANIMALS; NUISANCE; VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   Noise disturbances.
      (1)   No person shall keep any animal which causes frequent or long
continued noise or otherwise so as to disturb the comfort or repose of any
person in the vicinity.
      (2)   Any violation of this section is declared to be a nuisance and as
such may be abated.
   (B)   Keeping nuisance or vicious animal. No person shall keep any animal
which is a nuisance or is vicious, as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   Disposition of nuisance or uncontrollable animals. If an animal is
found by the Municipal Court Judge, upon notice and hearing, to be
uncontrollable by its owner or harborer to the extent that such animal poses a
threat to the health, safety and welfare of the public, then such animal shall
be ordered removed from the town limits or destroyed, at the owner’s option,
within ten days of the order. Such a finding by the Municipal Court Judge shall
be based upon, but not limited to, evidence of three convictions, pleas of
guilty or nolo contendere (no contest) of violations of §§
93.06 or
93.11(B) and this section against or by the current owners or harborers within
a 12-month period concerning the same animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-9) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 PASTURING OF ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to pasture any animal on public property or
private property without the consent of the person owning or controlling the
property.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-10) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 DANGEROUS ANIMALS; ATTACKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Keeping dangerous animal. No person shall own, keep or harbor any
dangerous animal in the town.
   (B)   Attacks prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner or
possessor to permit such animal to attack or bite any person or animal upon the
premises of the person, owner or possessor. It shall be an affirmative defense
to this division (B) when such premises are previously posted at each entrance
to the same with prominent and conspicuous signs warning all persons, in
lettering not less than two inches in height, of such animal. It is also an
affirmative defense to this division (B) that the use of such animal to attack
or bite any person was necessary to prevent or apprehend a person engaged in
committing an act of violence or other crime. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner or possessor to permit such animal to attack or bite any person
not upon the premises of such person, owner or possessor. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer who uses or employs
an animal while engaged in law enforcement activities, nor to any owner,
possessor or keeper whose animal attacks or bites a person engaged in
physically attacking or striking said owner, possessor or keeper.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-11) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty. It is unlawful for any person, willfully and maliciously, to
pour on, or apply to, any animal any drug or other thing that would inflict
pain on the animal; or to knowingly treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane
manner; or to knowingly neglect an animal belonging to him or her or in his or
her custody.
   (B)   Poisoning animals. It is unlawful for a person to willfully poison any
dog or other animal except a noxious, non-domesticated animal, or to knowingly
expose poison so that an animal could take it.
   (C)   Encouraging animals to fight. It is unlawful for any person to
instigate or encourage a fight between animals or to encourage one animal to
attack, pursue or annoy another animal except a noxious, non-domesticated
animal, or to keep a house, pit or other place used for fights between animals.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-12) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13 IMPOUNDMENT, DISPOSITION AND ADOPTION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Impoundment; disposition; fees.
      (1)   Animal shelter or pound. The town may operate on its own, or
contract with an outside agency to serve as the town’s animal shelter or pound,
to provide for the impoundment of animals and implementation of rabies
procedures pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Impoundment. Any animal found running at large shall be picked up
and immediately impounded in the animal shelter and there confined in a humane
manner.
      (3)   Fees.
         (a)   The fees for impounding and maintaining an animal, which shall
be paid upon redemption, shall be as follows.
            1.   For any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow or similar large
animal, the impound fee is $50 and the daily maintenance is $25.
            2.   For any dog, cat, hog, sheep, goat or other animal of similar
size, the impound fee is $25 and the daily maintenance is $5.
         (b)   In computing the fee, a fraction of a day during which an animal
has been fed shall be deemed a full day.
   (B)   Breaking pound or interfering with officers.
      (1)   If any person breaks open, or in any manner directly or indirectly
aids in, or counsels or advises the breaking open of any town pound or contract
pound, or hinders, delays or obstructs any person duly authorized in taking up
or taking to the town pound any animal liable to be impounded, he or she shall
be guilty of an offense.
      (2)   No person shall interfere with, or hinder, or molest any agent of
the town in the performance of any duty of such agent, or seek to release any
animal in the custody of the town or its agents, except as provided by law.
   (C)   Redemption, adoption of animal. An owner of an impounded animal or his
or her agent may redeem the animal prior to its sale or destruction as provided
for herein by paying the required fees against the animal and meeting any other
requirements which may be prescribed in this chapter. If the owner or his or
her agent has not redeemed the animal within the first three days after the
impoundment of the animal, the animal may be otherwise disposed of as provided
for herein. A person desiring to adopt an animal from impoundment shall pay an
adoption fee, costs of any necessary vaccinations, any additional fees as set
by the shelter as provided in this section and shall sign an agreement with the
town ensuring that the dog or cat will be spayed or neutered.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-13) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14 INVESTIGATIONS FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and
to enforce its provisions, the animal control or health officers are empowered
to call upon the residents of any premises upon which a dog or cat or small
animal is kept or harbored, and to demand the exhibition by the owner of such
dog or cat or small animal.
   (B)   The animal control or health officer, in the manner authorized by law,
may enter the premises where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or
inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal, and to take possession of
such animal when, in his or her opinion, it requires humane treatment. The
officer may demand, at the front door of any residence, exhibition by the owner
of current animal licenses at any time.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-14) (Ord. passed 2- -2011)
§ 93.15 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Records. The animal control officer shall keep or cause to be kept:
      (1)   An accurate and detailed record of the licensing, impounding and
disposition of all animals coming into his or her custody; and
      (2)   An accurate and detailed record of all bite cases reported to the
town, with a complete report of the investigation of each case, with at least
the same information as required in division (B) below.
   (B)   Fierce or dangerous dog report; required information. Upon receiving a
report concerning a fierce or dangerous dog, the animal control officer or
police shall obtain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of complainant;
      (2)   Date, time and location of incident;
      (3)   A specification of the facts and circumstances of the incident;
      (4)   A description of the dog;
      (5)   A statement or report describing how the dog either bit the
complainant or acted in a vicious manner; and
      (6)   Other aggravating facts or circumstances, if any, relating to the
incident.
   (C)   Investigation following report.
      (1)   After a statement or report has been obtained, the dog situation
shall be investigated by the animal control officer. Upon a showing of probable
cause, a complaint may be filed in Municipal Court and, if necessary, the dog
impounded as a public nuisance.
      (2)   If impoundment of said dog could not be made with safety to the
animal control officer, or other persons, the dog may be destroyed without
prior notice to the owner or harborer.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-15) (Ord. passed 2- -2011)
§ 93.16 ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL.
   In case of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
zoning ordinance, the zoning ordinance shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-16)
§ 93.17 HEARING AND ADJUDICATION.
   (A)   Hearing to determine vicious animal. The Municipal Judge, in addition
to any hearings that may be required on criminal charges, shall hold a hearing
within ten days of the date of impoundment to determine if the animal is
vicious as defined by this chapter. Said hearing may be held in conjunction
with any criminal proceedings if so ordered by the Judge, but in no event shall
this delay the hearing on determination of viciousness.
   (B)   Authority of judge; possible determinations. The Municipal Judge shall
be empowered to make one of the following determinations as a result of said
hearing:
      (1)   That the animal is in fact not vicious, in which event the town
shall cause it to be surrendered to the owner of the animal, upon payment by
the owner of the expenses outlined in §
93.13;
      (2)   That the animal is in fact vicious and should be destroyed;
      (3)   That the animal is “potentially vicious” but that for good cause
shown, the animal should not be destroyed, in which event the Judge shall order
that the owner be allowed to maintain the potentially vicious animal within the
corporate limits of the town under the following conditions:
         (a)   Payment of fees. Payment of all fees required by §
93.13.
         (b)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit an animal covered by
this section to go outside its kennel or pen unless such animal is securely
leashed with a leash no longer than four feet in length. No person shall permit
said animal to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its
kennel or pen unless a physically capable person is in physical control of the
leash. Such animal may not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees,
posts, buildings and the like. In addition, all animals on a leash outside the
animal’s kennel must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such
animal from biting persons or other animals.
         (c)   Confinement.
            1.   Requirement: all animals covered by this section shall be
securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel,
except when leashed or muzzled as provided in division (B)(3)(b) above. Such
pen, kennel or structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached to
the sides. All structures used to confine said animals must be locked with a
key or combination lock when such animals are within the structure. Such
structure must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen,
or the sides of the pen must be imbedded in the ground no less than two feet.
All structures erected to house said animals must comply with all zoning and
building regulations of the town. All such structures must be adequately
lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
            2.   Indoors: no animal covered by this section may be kept on a
porch, patio or in a part of the house or structure that would allow the animal
to exit such building on its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be
kept in a house or structure when the windows are open or when screen windows
or screen doors are the only obstacles preventing the animal from exiting the
structure.
         (d)   Signs. All owners, keepers or harborers of animals covered by
this section within the town shall display in a prominent place on their
premises a sign easily readable by the public using the words, “Beware Of
Potentially Vicious Animal.” In addition, a similar sign is required to be
posted on the kennel or pen of such animal.
         (e)   Insurance. All owners, keepers or harborers of potentially
vicious animals must, within 30 days of notification, provide to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer proof of public liability insurance in a single incident amount
of $100,000 for bodily injury to or death of any person or persons or for
damage to property owned by any person which may result from the ownership,
keeping or maintenance of such animal. Such insurance policy shall provide that
no cancellation of the policy will be made unless ten days’ written notice is
first given to the town by the owner, keeper or harborers.
         (f)   Right to appeal. Any owner whose animal is adjudged to be
vicious at the hearing, and sentence imposed by the Municipal Judge pursuant to
this section, upon written demand, may appeal the Judge’s decision within ten
days to the district court of the county where a trial in the district court
shall be accorded them de novo (an entirely new trial). All such appeals shall
comply with the procedures of the Town Municipal Court.
         (g)   Identification photographs. All owners, keepers or harborers of
potentially vicious animals must, within 30 days of notification, provide to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer two color photographs of the potentially vicious
animal clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal. Said
photographs shall be no smaller than three inches by five inches in size.
         (h)   Electronic identification tag. All owners, keepers or harborers
of potentially vicious animals must, within 30 days of notification, have an
electronic identification chip installed on the animal. The chip shall be
installed by a veterinarian licensed in the state and shall be readable with
the use of an industry standard universal reader.
         (i)   Reporting requirements. All owners, keepers or harborers of
potentially vicious animals must, within 30 days of the incident, report the
following information in writing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer as required
hereinafter:
            1.   The removal from the town or death of a potentially vicious
animal;
            2.   The birth of offspring of a potentially vicious animal; and
            3.   The new address of a potentially vicious animal should the
animal be moved to a different location within the town.
         (j)   Sale or transfer of ownership. No person shall sell, barter or
in any other way dispose of a potentially vicious animal within the town to any
person within the town unless the recipient personally resides permanently in
the same household and on the same premises as the owner of such animal;
provided, that the registered owner of a potentially vicious animal may sell or
otherwise dispose of a potentially vicious animal or the offspring of such
animal to persons who do not reside within the town.
         (k)   Breeding of potentially vicious animals. It shall be unlawful to
breed any potentially vicious animal within the town.
         (l)   Animals born of registered dogs. All offspring born of
potentially vicious animals registered within the town must be removed from the
town within six weeks of the birth of such animal.
         (m)   Sterilization. All owners, keepers or harborers of potentially
vicious animals must, within 30 days of notification, have the potentially
vicious animal sterilized. Sterilization shall be performed by a veterinarian
licensed in the state.
         (n)   Annual registration; fee.
            1.   All potentially vicious animals shall be registered by the
owner with the Town Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days of notification by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer that the animal has been declared potentially vicious. A
potentially vicious animal shall not be registered by the Town Clerk-Treasurer
if the requirements of this chapter are not complied with at the time of
application.
            2.   The annual registration fee shall initially be established at
$100. Said registration fee shall thereafter be established by resolution of
the Town Board.
         (o)   Failure to comply.
            1.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a
potentially vicious animal in the town to fail to comply with the requirements
and conditions set forth in this chapter.
            2.   Any potentially vicious animal found to be the subject of a
violation of this chapter shall be subject to immediate seizure and
impoundment.
            3.   All expenses associated with the impounding, including
shelter, food, handling and veterinary care, shall be borne by the owner of
such animal during the period of impoundment.
            4.   Failure to comply with all the requirements and conditions set
forth in this chapter within 15 days of impoundment will result in the
destruction of this animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-17) (Ord. passed 2- -2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   Insurance. A landowner or property owner that leases, rents or
otherwise allows an owner of a potentially vicious animal to keep or harbor
said animal on the landowner’s premises must, within 30 days of notification,
provide proof to the Town Clerk-Treasurer of public liability insurance in a
single incident amount of $100,000 for bodily injury or death of any person or
persons or for damage to property owned by any person which may result from the
ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal. Such insurance policy shall
provide that no cancellation of the policy will be made unless ten days’
written notice is first given to the town.
   (B)   Sightproof fencing.
      (1)   A landowner or property owner that leases, rents or otherwise
allows an owner of a potentially vicious animal to keep or harbor said animal
on the landowner’s or property owner’s premises shall, within 30 days of
notification, enclose the yard where a potentially vicious animal is kept with
a six-foot high, sightproof fence. Said fence shall be maintained in a strong
and sturdy condition at all times so that said potentially vicious animal
cannot escape from the property. Said fence shall be maintained free of holes
and shall not contain any gap between the fence and ground large enough for a
human being or other animal to go through. Said fence shall also be maintained
to prevent another animal from entering the property where the potentially
vicious animal is kept.
      (2)   Electric fences, if installed, shall be in accordance with
applicable building and safety codes. Electric fences shall not be installed on
top of the fence or be installed in such a way as to be likely to shock humans
on the opposite side of the fence.
   (C)   Compliance. A landowner or property owner that leases, rents or
otherwise allows an owner of a potentially vicious animal to keep or harbor
said animal on the landowner’s or property owner’s premises shall be
responsible for ensuring that the lessee, renter or occupier of said property
complies with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-18) (Ord. passed 2- -2011)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from continuing such
violations.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-19) (Ord. passed 2- -2011)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Financing of housing
   
94.06   Brokerage services
   
94.07   Exemption
   
94.08   Administration
   
94.09   Education and conciliation
   
94.10   Complaint procedure
   
94.11   Investigation; subpoenas; giving of evidence
   
94.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
94.13   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
94.14   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-1)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04 through
94.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-2)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
94.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   Dwellings. All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below.
   (B)   Exemptions. Nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that:
         (a)   Such private individual owner does not own more than three such
single-family houses at any one time;
         (b)   In the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the
exemption granted by this division (B)(1)(b) shall apply only with respect to
one such sale within any 24-month period;
         (c)   Such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any
express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three such single-family
houses at any one time;
         (d)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is sold or
rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesman, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such
facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman or
person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   Business of selling or renting dwellings. For the purposes of division
(B) above, a person shall be deemed to be in the business of selling or renting
dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence in providing
sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; and/or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-3)
§ 94.04 SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03, and except as exempted by §§
94.03(B) and
94.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, disability or familial status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, gender, color, religion,
national original, age, disability or familial status;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, gender, color, religion or national origin, age, disability or familial
status, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, gender, color, religion or
national origin, age, disability or familial status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available; or
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, gender, color or
religion, or national origin, age, disability or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-4) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or their
financial assistance, because of the race, gender, color, religion, national
origin, age, disability or familial status of such person or of any person
associated with him or her in connection with such loan or other financial
assistance for the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance, or of
the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given; provided, that nothing contained in this
section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
94.03(B).
(Prior Code, § 5-7-5) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or
her in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, disability or
familial status.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-6) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a dwelling which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, gender, color, national origin, age,
disability or familial status. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a
private club not in fact open to the public which, as an incident to its
primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-7)
§ 94.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the chief executive officer of the town.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees shall serve as the Fair Housing Board for
the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-8)
§ 94.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the chief executive officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the
housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the
provisions of this chapter, and his or her suggested means of implementing it,
and shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary
compliance and of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-9)
§ 94.10 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Filing of complaint; investigation; resolution.
      (1)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by
a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the chief executive officer.
      (2)   Complaints shall be in writing and shall contain such information
and be in such form as the chief executive officer requires.
      (3)   Upon receipt of such a complaint, the chief executive officer shall
furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons who allegedly committed or
are about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice.
      (4)   Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or within 30 days after
the expiration of any period of reference under division (C) below, the chief
executive officer shall investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to
the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve it.
      (5)   If the chief executive officer decides to resolve the complaint, he
or she shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory
housing practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation and
persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may
be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this
chapter without the written consent of the persons concerned.
   (B)   Time limit; responses.
      (1)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred.
      (2)   Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which
the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based.
      (3)   Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended at any time.
      (4)   A respondent may file an answer to the complaint against him or her
and with the leave of the chief executive officer, which shall be granted
whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his or her answer
at any time.
      (5)   Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   Failure to obtain voluntary compliance. If, within 30 days after a
complaint is filed with the chief executive officer, the chief executive
officer has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the
person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a complaint with the
Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The chief
executive officer will assist in this filing.
   (D)   Civil action.
      (1)   If the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint to enforce the rights granted or protected by
this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
      (2)   If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has
occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from
engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   (E)   Burden of proof. In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section,
the burden of proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Trial. Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial,
the chief executive officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-10)
§ 94.11 INVESTIGATION; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Investigation; access to records.
      (1)   In conducting an investigation, the chief executive officer shall
have access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents,
individuals and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine,
record and copy such materials and take and record the testimony or statements
of such persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the
investigation; provided, however, that the chief executive officer first
complies with the provisions of the fourth amendment relating to unreasonable
searches and seizures.
      (2)   The chief executive officer may issue subpoenas to compel his or
her access to or the production of such materials, or the appearance of such
persons, and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and
subject to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or
interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in the United
States District Court for the district in which the investigation is taking
place.
      (3)   The chief executive officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   Respondent; subpoenas. Upon written application to the chief executive
officer, a respondent shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number
of subpoenas by and in the name of the chief executive officer to the same
extent and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas issued by the chief
executive officer himself or herself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a
respondent shall show on their face the name and address of such respondent and
shall state that they were issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses; fees. Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the chief executive
officer shall be entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses
in proceedings in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness
summoned by a subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by
him or her.
   (D)   Petition to revoke or modify subpoena. Within five days after service
of a subpoena upon any person, such person may petition the chief executive
officer to revoke or modify the subpoena. The chief executive officer shall
grant the petition if he or she finds that the subpoena requires appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that
compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   Refusal to obey subpoena. In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a
subpoena, the chief executive officer or other person at whose request it was
issued may petition for its enforcement in the Municipal or State Court for the
district in which the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was
served or transacts business.
   (F)   Town Attorney; litigation. The Town Attorney shall conduct all
litigation in which the chief executive officer participates as a party or as
amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-11) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   Civil action. The rights granted by §§
94.03 through
94.06 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however, that the
court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
94.10(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the chief executive officer are likely to
result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice
complained of in the complaint made to the chief executive officer and which
practice forms the basis for the action in court; and provided, however, that
any sale, encumbrance or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court
order issued under the authority of this chapter, and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant, without actual notice of the existence of
the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of this chapter
shall not be affected.
   (B)   Temporary injunction, restraining order; award damages. The court may
grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent or temporary
injunction, temporary restraining order or other order, and may award to the
plaintiff actual damages and punitive damages as provided by law, together with
court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees in the case of a prevailing
plaintiff. Provided, that the plaintiff, in the opinion of the court, is not
financially able to assume the attorneys’ fees.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-12)
§ 94.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
94.03 through
94.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-13) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate or interfere with the following shall be punished as
provided in §
94.99:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, disability or familial status and because he or she is or
has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from participating,
without discrimination on account of race, gender, color, religion, national
origin, age, disability or familial status, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in division (A) above, or affording
another person or class of persons opportunity or protection so to participate;
or
   (C)   Any citizen, because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from, lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, disability or familial
status, in any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities
described in §
94.14(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to so participate.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-14) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any employee of the chief executive officer who shall make public any
information in violation of the provisions in §
94.10 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-10)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify
or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other
evidence, if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or
lawful order of the chief executive officer shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
      (2)   Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the chief executive
officer, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in
any report, account, record or other document submitted to the chief executive
officer pursuant to his or her subpoena or other order, or shall willfully
neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true and correct entries in
such reports, accounts, records or other documents, or shall willfully
mutilate, alter or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall
be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-11)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Rules and regulations
   
95.02   Artesian Beach and Lake regulations
   
95.03   Fees determined
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce
such rules, regulations and other requirements as it deems necessary or
expedient in connection with the use of all recreational and park facilities
owned or operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 95.02 ARTESIAN BEACH AND LAKE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Town authority. The Board of Trustees may adopt from time to time
regulations applicable on the town’s Artesian Beach Lake and the adjacent park
areas, a copy of which is available from the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   Fishing and other recreational uses.
         (a)   Except as modified herein, all state fishing regulations shall
remain in full force and effect, including, but not limited to, license and
permit requirements.
         (b)   The following shall be the regulations for the Artesian Beach
Lake.
            1.   The use of flotation devices is limited to float tubes,
canoes, rowboats and other flotation devices powered by internal combustion
engine, electric motor, oars, paddles or other human powered items. Flotation
devices that cause a wake or exceed a speed limit of five mph are strictly
prohibited.
            2.   All other State Department of Wildlife Conservation rules and
regulations shall remain in full force and effect.
            3.   All words, phrases and sentences herein shall be given their
ordinary use and meaning and be as defined in statutes of the state.
      (2)   Prohibited activities and articles.
         (a)   Spear fishing, open containers of intoxicating beverages or low-
point beer and glass containers are prohibited at Artesian Beach.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to swim in, run in, walk in,
loiter in, stand in or motor upon the body of water known as the Artesian
Beach.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) (Ord. 168-A, passed 4-24-2000; Ord. 169, passed 8-28-
2000) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 FEES DETERMINED.
   The town shall provide by rules, from time to time, by motion or resolution,
the fees charged for any such park or recreational privileges on any property
or facility for recreational purposes owned or operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to use any of the park or recreational
facilities without having complied with the rules and regulations promulgated
by the Board of Trustees in connection therewith.
   (B)   Anyone violating any of the rules and regulations, or failing to
comply with such, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4)
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
95.02(B)(2) is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from continuing such
violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2)
(Ord. 168-A, passed 4-24-2000; Ord. 169, passed 8-28-2000)
CHAPTER 96: CEMETERY
Section
   
96.01   Cemetery land description
   
96.02   Governance
   
96.03   Rules and regulations
   
96.04   Reports
   
96.05   Cemetery Sexton-Superintendent
   
96.06   Conditions of lot purchases
   
96.07   Sale of lots
   
96.08   Interments and disinterments
   
96.09   Property damage; financial responsibility
   
96.10   Traffic regulations
   
96.11   Lot plantings and improvements
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 CEMETERY LAND DESCRIPTION.
   The following tracts of real property previously owned by the Memorial
Cemetery Association and conveyed to the town, a municipal corporation, by
quitclaim deed dated April 24, 2001, and the corrective quitclaim deed dated
April 30, 2001, shall be known as the municipal cemetery:
   (A)   A part of the Southeast Quarter of Section Nine, Township 21 North,
Range 24, W.I.M., Ellis County, State of Oklahoma, being described as the
Northeast eight acres of the Section Nine, Township 21 North, Range 24, W.I.M.,
Ellis County, Oklahoma.
   (B)   A part of the Southeast Quarter of Section Nine, Township 21 North,
Range 24, W.I.M., Ellis County, State of Oklahoma, being more particularly
described as follows: commencing at a point 33 feet west of the Northeast
corner of the Southeast Quarter of Section Nine, Township 21 North, Range 24,
W.I.M., thence running south on a line parallel to the east line of said
Southeast Quarter, a distance of 418 feet; thence running west on a line
parallel with the north line of said Southeast Quarter a distance of 833.68
feet; thence south on a line parallel to the east on a line of said Southeast
Quarter, a distance of 209 feet; thence east on a line parallel to the north
line of said Southeast Quarter, a distance of 833.68 feet; thence north on a
line parallel to the east line of said southeast quarter, a distance of 209
feet, to the point of beginning.
   (C)   A parcel of land located in the Southeast Quarter of Section Nine,
Township 21 North, Range 24, W.I.M., Ellis County, State of Oklahoma, being
more particularly described as follows: commencing at point known as the
southwest corner of the existing cemetery fence, thence south a distance of 200
feet, thence east a distance of 832 feet, thence north a distance of 200 feet,
thence west a distance of 832 feet, to the point of beginning, containing
166,400 square feet more or less, less and except all oil, gas, minerals and
minerals rights in and under and that may be produced from the above described
real property.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001)
§ 96.02 GOVERNANCE.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall serve as the governing body of the town
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001; Ord. 195, passed 2-10-2022)
§ 96.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall have charge of and control of the municipal
cemetery and shall be authorized to develop rules and regulations to govern the
management, improvement and establishment of the cemetery, fix the price for
which lots shall be sold or for which an interment shall be made and appoint
all officers necessary for the control and management of cemeteries, including
a Cemetery Sexton-Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001; Ord. 195, passed 2-10-2022)
§ 96.04 REPORTS.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall, at the regular Board meeting of the Town
Board of Trustees in January and July of each year, cause to be presented for
approval a report of all lots sold, interments made and all monies received and
expended by the Board in and about the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001; Ord. 195, passed 2-10-2022)
§ 96.05 CEMETERY SEXTON-SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Cemetery Sexton-Superintendent shall keep the town cemeteries in a good
state of repair, and shall keep the weeds mowed in the cemeteries. He or she
shall cause all graves to be dug and fill them at the time of burials, and
shall perform other duties as set forth by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001; Ord. 195, passed 2-10-2022)
§ 96.06 CONDITIONS OF LOT PURCHASES.
   (A)   Sales subject to rules and regulations. All lots shall be sold subject
to the rules and regulations of this chapter or those adopted by the Town Board
of Trustees. The deed of title for cemetery lots shall state that the sales are
subject to these conditions.
   (B)   Restrictions on use of lot. No lot shall be used for any purpose other
than the burial of human remains and the placing of appropriate monuments and
memorials.
   (C)   Interment permit; charges. When interment is to be made, a permit must
be obtained from the Cemetery Sexton-Superintendent and signed by one of the
heirs. The town may impose specific charges against the lots. No mortgage or
other encumbrance shall be given on any lot.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001; Ord. 195, passed 2-10-2022)
§ 96.07 SALE OF LOTS.
   All lots sold in the town cemetery shall be sold, subject to the following
provisions:
   (A)   Payment in full required.
      (1)   Persons desiring to acquire lots in cemeteries or to have
interments made upon lots already owned shall obtain from the Cemetery Sexton-
Superintendent the correct description and cost of such lot or grave, and shall
pay the entire amount of the cost of such lot or grave to the town. It shall be
the duty of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or the Sexton-Superintendent to issue a
receipt in triplicate for such payment. The original receipt shall be delivered
to the purchaser of the lot, the duplicate of the receipt shall be given to the
Sexton-Superintendent, and the triplicate of the receipt shall be retained by
or delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer for the town.
      (2)   No lot or parcel of lot or any interest therein shall be sold to
any person other than the town until the provisions of this section shall have
been complied with, and no interment shall be made by any person until the lot
wherein the interment is to be made shall have been paid for in full, in cash.
      (3)   The price of lots shall be prescribed by ordinance.
   (B)   Execution of deed.
      (1)   Any person holding a receipt for the payment of any lot in a town
cemetery shall be entitled to a deed for the lot, and it shall be the duty of
the Mayor to execute the deed and have it attested by the Town Clerk-Treasurer;
provided, that all deeds, when executed, shall be construed as granting the
right only to use the lot or lots for burial purposes for the interment of the
grantee, or his or her relatives, descendants and such other persons as may be
permitted by the grantee.
      (2)   Such burial right shall not be transferable by either voluntary or
involuntary conveyance without the express consent of the Town Board of
Trustees.
   (C)   Repurchase of lots by town.
      (1)   No owner of any lot or parcel of lot shall sell the whole or any
part thereof, except that the town may repurchase the lot or parcel of lot
wherever the Mayor shall, after investigation of a particular case, agree to
repurchase a lot formerly sold.
      (2)   No money, except $1, shall be repaid to the original purchaser
until the lot has been resold by the town, and the original purchaser shall
receive, upon reconveyance by him or her of the lot or lots, only the amount of
money which shall be received from such resale, less $1.
      (3)   No interment shall be allowed until full payment for the lot or
lots or any part thereof has been made.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001; Ord. 195, passed 2-10-2022)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 INTERMENTS AND DISINTERMENTS.
   (A)   Permit and payment required; compliance with rules and regulations.
      (1)   No interment shall take place without a burial permit, nor until
compliance with all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations relative to
burials.
      (2)   No grave shall be opened unless the grave space has been paid for,
with the exception of indigent cases, or when the funeral director assumes
responsibility for payment for such a grave space or spaces.
      (3)   Funeral directors making arrangements for burials shall be
responsible for all interment charges if not paid by the owner or agent.
      (4)   If the deceased to be interred is not a member of the immediate
family of the lot owner, permission in writing from such owner must be filed
with the town. This permission must be filed before the interment is made.
   (B)   Rates.
      (1)   The rate charged for interment and disinterment in the cemetery
shall be set by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution per grave.
      (2)   All interments and disinterments done in the cemetery shall be
performed pursuant to all applicable rules of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001; Ord. 195, passed 2-10-2022)
§ 96.09 PROPERTY DAMAGE; FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The town shall not be responsible for any damage to lots, structures or
objects thereon, or for flowers or articles removed from any lot or grave.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001)
§ 96.10 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Town laws applicable. All traffic laws of the town that are applicable
to the operation of vehicles shall also apply in the cemetery.
   (B)   Driver responsibility. Persons driving in the cemetery shall be
responsible for any damage done by their vehicle or animal, or both, in the
driver’s charge. In addition, no person shall:
      (1)   Drive a vehicle in excess of 15 mph on any cemetery road;
      (2)   Drive off the established roads unless permission is given in
writing by the Sexton-Superintendent of the cemetery; or
      (3)   Use a cemetery road as a public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001)
§ 96.11 LOT PLANTINGS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   All plantings and other improvements to lots shall be done with the approval
of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-11) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001; Ord. 195, passed 2-10-2022)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 for violation of such rules and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-12) (Ord. 170, passed 4-30-2001)
CHAPTER 97: LIBRARY
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Library established
   
97.03   Board of Directors
   
97.04   Librarian and assistants; budget
   
97.05   Library Fund
   
97.06   Reports
   
97.07   Appropriations
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the desire and intent of the Town Board of Trustees to provide free
public library service to the residents of the town, for the benefit of the
town, the state and the nation.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 97.02 LIBRARY ESTABLISHED.
   The public library is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 97.03 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   Board established; members; compensation. The public library shall be
governed by a Board of Directors consisting of five members selected from the
residents of the town with reference to their fitness for such office by the
Town Board of Trustees. Library Board directors shall serve thereon without
compensation.
   (B)   Term; vacancies.
      (1)   Library Board members shall hold office for a term of three years
from May 1 following their appointment. At the first regular meeting of the
Library Board, the directors shall cast lots for respective terms of one year,
two years and three years.
      (2)   Vacancies in the Library Board of Directors shall be filled in the
same manner as original appointments.
   (C)   Removal. Any member of the Library Board of Directors may be removed
by the appointing authority for misconduct or neglect of duty.
   (D)   Officers; rules.
      (1)   Immediately after the initial appointment, the Library Board of
Directors shall meet and organize by electing one director as president, one
director as secretary and by electing such other officers as the Board may deem
necessary.
      (2)   They shall adopt such rules and regulations for their own guidance
and for the governance and operation of the library as may be expedient and not
inconsistent with the laws of the state, subject to approval of the Town Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 97.04 LIBRARIAN AND ASSISTANTS; BUDGET.
   (A)   Appointment; compensation. The Library Board may, with the approval of
the Town Board of Trustees, appoint a suitable librarian and assistants and set
their compensation. The librarian shall be the administrative officer of the
library.
   (B)   Annual budget; general duties. The Library Board shall recommend an
annual budget to the governing body of the town. The Library Board shall set
the policy of the library; control the expenditure of all monies collected and
placed to the credit of the library; supervise and care for the grounds, rooms
or buildings constructed, leased or set aside for the library.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) (Ord. 193, passed 2-23-2021)
§ 97.05 LIBRARY FUND.
   All monies received by the Library Board on account of the operation of the
library shall be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, who shall deposit the same
in the Municipal Treasury in a special and separate account designated the
Library Fund. Such monies shall be paid out only upon warrants authorized by
the Library Board of Directors and approved by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 97.06 REPORTS.
   (A)   Town Board. The Library Board of Directors shall make reports
quarterly, and on or before July 31 in each year, an annual report to the Town
Board of Trustees. Such report shall include the condition of its trust on June
30, including the following:
      (1)   The various sums of money and property received by the library and
how such monies have been expended;
      (2)   The budget for the library for the next fiscal year;
      (3)   Statistics on the general character and number of books and
periodicals which are on hand, are lost, have been added, have been loaned out;
and
      (4)   The number of persons making use of the library during the year.
   (B)   State Department of Libraries. A similar report shall be filed at that
time with the State Department of Libraries on forms supplied by that
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 97.07 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Town Board of Trustees may annually appropriate available funds to the
Library Board of Directors as the Board of Trustees deems necessary to
facilitate the operation and maintenance of the public library for the
education and cultural enrichment of the citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7) (Ord. 193, passed 2-23-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
      
111.   ITINERANT VENDORS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Issuance; application
   
110.03   License period
   
110.04   Payment of fees; proration
   
110.05   License nontransferable
   
110.06   License display
   
110.07   Exemptions
   
110.08   License fee schedule
   
110.09   Revocation or suspension of license; appeal
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, either as principal,
officer, agent, servant or employee, to engage in any calling, trade,
profession or occupation for which a license is required, without first paying
to the town the fee or tax required and procuring from the town a license.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 ISSUANCE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Issuance. All licenses shall be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer. No
license shall be issued until all conditions prescribed by the ordinances have
been complied with and a certificate of examination or inspection filed with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer, in those cases where examination or inspection is
required by ordinance.
   (B)   Application. Any applicant for a license shall make application upon
such forms as may be prescribed by ordinance or may be prescribed by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 110.03 LICENSE PERIOD.
   (A)   All licenses shall be issued for the current fiscal year and shall
expire on June 30 of the year for which issued, unless a different date of
expiration is provided by the ordinance providing for the particular license.
   (B)   Taxes are due annually on July 1.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 110.04 PAYMENT OF FEES; PRORATION.
   All license fees shall be paid in advance for the license period for which
issued. The license fee may be prorated for a new business in proportion to the
amount of the year remaining during which time it will operate. However, at the
direction of the Town Board, the Town Clerk-Treasurer may issue licenses to
licensees, sending them statements for fees due, and if the same is not paid
within 60 days from the due date, the license shall thereupon become null and
void.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 110.05 LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license shall be sold or otherwise transferred.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 110.06 LICENSE DISPLAY.
   It is the duty of any person, having obtained a license for any authorized
purpose, to have the same placed or posted in a secure manner in some public
place on the premises occupied and used for such business and where the license
may be readily seen at any time by any person entering the place of business.
Any licensee who does not occupy any certain premises for the conduct of such
licensed business shall carry his or her license on his or her person and shall
display the same whenever requested.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)
§ 110.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   A farmer selling in town produce actually produced by him or her in
this county;
   (B)   All scientific or literary entertainers or lecturers;
   (C)   All concerts, musicals or other entertainment given exclusively by the
citizens of the town; and
   (D)   All entertainments, the proceeds from which are to be devoted to
charity or to public uses or improvements.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)
§ 110.08 LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Fee imposed; payment.
      (1)   There is hereby assessed and levied a tax or license fee, which fee
shall be set by the Town Board by motion or resolution, upon each of the
persons engaging in any of the occupations, trades or businesses, licensed or
taxed by the town, for which such person shall first procure a license
therefor.
      (2)   Any person who shall engage in more than one business, trade or
occupation on which any license fee is required by the town ordinances, as long
as such businesses are operated under one roof and one ownership, shall pay
only one license fee.
   (B)   Licensing. All businesses and occupations in the town are subject to
license herein. Fees for each license shall be as set by the Town Board by
motion or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)
§ 110.09 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   (A)   Revocation or suspension; notice. All licenses issued by the town
shall be subject to revocation by the duly authorized officer of the town upon
any breach of any condition prescribed by ordinance for the regulation of such
licensed occupation, or in the event such licensee operates such licensed
occupation or business in violation of the laws of the town or the state, or in
violation of any law or regulation of the United States government. For the
purpose of this section, DULY AUTHORIZED OFFICER means the Town Clerk-Treasurer
in all instances except when some other person or board is given the authority
by ordinance to revoke or suspend the particular license. The duly authorized
officer shall either give written notice by personal service or by mail, to the
licensee, of the revocation of his or her license or the suspension of the
same; which notice, if mailed, shall be mailed to the address given on the
application or license. The license shall stand revoked or suspended from the
time of the giving of such notice.
   (B)   Appeal; hearing. Any licensee, however, may appeal to the Town Board
from such decision within ten days after the aforesaid notice by filing a
written request with the Town Clerk-Treasurer for a hearing. The hearing shall
be held by the Town Board at the next regular meeting following the filing of
the appeal, but may be continued from day to day. The appealing licensee may be
represented by counsel. The hearing shall be conducted in an informal manner,
but no license shall be revoked or suspended except upon a preponderance of the
evidence. The Board may affirm, modify or vacate the order of revocation or
suspension, and its decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9)
CHAPTER 111: ITINERANT VENDORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Individual or blanket license
   
111.03   License fees
   
111.04   Application for license
   
111.05   Investigation; approval or disapproval
   
111.06   Bond required
   
111.07   Service of process
   
111.08   Sale of food
   
111.09   Identification tag or badge; display
   
111.10   Consent or invitation required
   
111.11   Exceptions
   
111.12   Provisions cumulative; conflicts
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL. Soliciting for a business purpose which is intended to be for
profit and is not intended to be charitable, religious, not for profit or
political.
   ITINERANT. Having no regular place of doing business or soliciting in the
town and includes, but is not limited to, making regular delivery or providing
goods over an established route through the town.
   PEDDLER. A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which
are to be provided from stocks or goods carried with the peddler or which are
services provided by the peddler at the time the order is made.
   SOLICITING. All activities of peddlers, solicitors and vendors attempting to
obtain business. Such activities may include, but are not limited to,
distribution of handbills or leaflets to the public directly or by placing them
in a mailbox, on a doorknob or otherwise on any property; coming personally
onto any property for the purposes defined herein; calling the occupants of any
property by telephone for the purposes herein defined; or calling or inviting
any prospective customers to purchase or obtain merchandise, product or
service.
   SOLICITOR. A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which
are to be provided or shipped to the consumer at a later date.
   VENDOR. Any person engaged in a business or occupation selling or offering
to sell any merchandise, product or service, and includes, but is not limited
to, peddlers and solicitors.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 111.02 INDIVIDUAL OR BLANKET LICENSE.
   (A)   Individual license. Any itinerant vendor, solicitor or peddler shall
obtain a license from the town prior to any soliciting in the town, unless
exempted herein, to cover each person who will be soliciting and each location
or separate place of business.
   (B)   Blanket license or letter of agreement.
      (1)   Owners or lessees of buildings in which itinerant vendors operate
or locate must obtain a blanket license covering all itinerant vendors who will
be established in the building controlled by the owner or lessee.
      (2)   Governmental agencies owning public buildings may arrange a letter
of agreement with the town in lieu of a license if licensing is contrary to the
regulations governing the governmental agency. In such a case, the letter of
agreement will provide for the same requirements as are shown in this chapter
and will provide that the town receive one-half the rental fee paid by the
itinerant vendor until the town’s receipts equal the amount required for a
blanket license fee.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2)
§ 111.03 LICENSE FEES.
   The fee for licenses herein required shall be as set by the Town Board of
Trustees by motion or resolution. The fees may be waived for educational,
charitable or religious groups qualifying as 501(c)(3) organizations who make
house to house solicitations.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3)
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Individual, partnership or corporation. Applicants for licenses shall
file, during regular business hours, a written application signed by the
applicant, if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by a
qualified corporate officer, if a corporation, with the licensing officer,
showing:
      (1)   Name and address of the person having the management or supervision
of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to be carried
on in the town; the location or address of such person when engaged in such
business; the permanent address of such person; the capacity in which such
person will act; the name and address of the person, firm or corporation for
whose account the business will be carried on, if any, and if a corporation,
under the laws of what state the same is incorporated;
      (2)   The place in the town, within the proper zoning classification,
where it is proposed to carry on the applicant’s business and the length of
time during which it is proposed that the business be conducted;
      (3)   Place or places, other than permanent place of business of the
applicant, within the six months next preceding the date of the application,
where the applicant has conducted a transient business;
      (4)   The nature of the goods or products being sold, that is, whether
they are “seconds,” rejects or first line quality, and whether any warranty
applies to the items being sold; if a warranty applies, the period of the
warranty and the name and address of the warrantor and the procedures for
filing for the adjustment of refund shall be specified;
      (5)   A statement that the applicant agrees to the requirement to pay all
state and town sales taxes due on all items which are subject to sales taxes
and recognizes that a copy of all applications will be provided to the local
office of the State Tax Commission;
      (6)   Current state sales tax permit number;
      (7)   Current license or permit, if any, which may be required by state
law or ordinances of the town for the particular activity or business;
      (8)   If a motor vehicle is to be used in the business, a description of
the vehicle, together with motor vehicle registration number and the license
number for the vehicle, and proof of liability insurance required by state law,
and proof or verification from the insurance carrier that the Town Clerk-
Treasurer will be provided at least ten days’ notice of any cancellation; and
      (9)   Proof of 501(c)(3) tax status if claiming exemption from the
license fees.
   (B)   Blanket license application. Applicants for a blanket itinerant vendor
license shall file, during regular business hours, a written application signed
by the applicant, if an individual, by all partners, if a partnership, and by a
corporation officer, if a corporation, with the Clerk-Treasurer, showing:
      (1)   Name and address of the person having the management or supervision
of the building in which the itinerant vendor shall conduct business;
      (2)   Name and address of the person having the management or supervision
of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to be carried
on in the town; the location or address of such person when engaged in such
business; the permanent address of such person; the capacity in which such
person will act; the name and address of the person, firm or corporation for
whose account the business will be carried on, if any, and if a corporation,
under the laws of what state the same is incorporated and licensed to operate
in the state;
      (3)   A general description of the products or services that will be sold
by the itinerant vendor; and
      (4)   A statement that the applicant shall establish the following
controls over itinerant vendors and shall maintain records concerning each
itinerant vendor for one year after the engagement dates involving the
itinerant vendors.
         (a)   The applicant shall determine the name and address of each
salesperson involved locally for an itinerant vendor and determine the name and
permanent address of the parent company, if any, controlling the itinerant
vendor.
         (b)   The applicant shall determine the nature of the merchandise or
product to be sold, determine whether it is a reject line or seconds, determine
whether there are warranties of the product, and how any complaint is to be
filed for warranty adjustment. The applicant shall require that the vendor
display a sign prominent enough to disclose to all potential customers that the
product consists of seconds, rejects or irregulars if such is the case.
         (c)   The applicant shall inform each vendor of the requirement to pay
state and town sales taxes and shall forward the name, product involved and
dates of the vendor’s engagement to the local office of the State Tax
Commission. Further, the applicant will furnish the vendor with one copy of the
state sales tax report form and require him or her to certify that he or she
will submit a sales tax report at the conclusion of his or her engagement in
the town.
         (d)   The applicant shall post proof of liability insurance policy in
effect in the amount of $25,000.
         (e)   The applicant shall provide copies of all ordinances,
regulations, tax forms and the like, to the itinerant vendor and provide the
town with a statement signed by the vendor agreeing to comply with same.
         (f)   The applicant shall post a notice with the town 30 days in
advance, listing each itinerant vendor establishing a business.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4)
§ 111.05 INVESTIGATION; APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   Investigation. All applications for licensing or registration shall be
immediately referred for investigation as to the truth thereof, which
investigation shall be conducted within ten business days after the application
and fee are deposited with the town.
   (B)   Approval. If the town finds no past history of the applicant
indicating violations of this code and that the application is properly made
and truthful, a license shall be issued to the approved applicant upon payment
of the fee therefor and the filing of the required bond.
   (C)   Denial; appeal. In all matters of denial of the license or
registration, the applicant shall be forthwith advised thereof. The applicant
shall be advised that an appeal of a denied license may be submitted to the
Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5)
§ 111.06 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Filing of bond. Before any license as provided by this chapter shall
be issued, such applicant shall file a bond running to the town. A person
engaging in business as an itinerant vendor shall file a bond in the sum set
forth in the bond schedule, secured by the applicant as principal and two
sureties upon whom service of process may be made in the state.
   (B)   Conditions of bond. All such bonds shall be approved by the Town
Attorney and conditioned that:
      (1)   Applicant shall comply with all of the provisions of the ordinances
of the town and the statutes of the state regulating and concerning the sale of
goods or wares and merchandise; and
      (2)   Will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any
violation of the ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against him or her by any person for
damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deceptive practice by any person
transacting such business with such applicant, whether such misrepresentation
or deception was made or practiced by the owner or by his, her or their
service, agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through
any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with
reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Any
action on the bond may be brought in the name of the town to the use of the
aggrieved person.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6)
§ 111.07 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   (A)   Before any license for an itinerant vendor, as herein provided, shall
be issued, such applicant shall file with the town an instrument nominating and
appointing the Town Clerk-Treasurer his or her true and lawful agent, with full
power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on
behalf of the applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out
of the business transaction under the license and the bond given as required by
this chapter, or for the performance of the conditions of the bond or for any
breach thereof.
   (B)   The instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that the
applicant for the license consents and agrees that service of any notice or
process may be made upon the agent, and when so made, shall be taken and held
to be as valid as if personally served on the person applying for the license
under this chapter, according to the laws of the state, or any other state, and
waiving all claims or right of error by reason of such acknowledgment of
service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, as herein provided, the Clerk-Treasurer shall send to the
licensee at his or her last known address, by certified mail, a copy of the
notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7)
§ 111.08 SALE OF FOOD.
   (A)   Compliance with state requirements. All applicants for license to sell
food and merchandise for human or animal consumption shall have their
application for license approved in accordance with the applicable state food
establishment requirements before the licenses are issued.
   (B)   Individual license. The sale of food requires an individual license
not covered by blanket licenses.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-8)
§ 111.09 IDENTIFICATION TAG OR BADGE; DISPLAY.
   (A)   At all times there shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon each:
licensee if an individual; vehicle or booth used by a licensee; or building or
premises as appropriate for blanket licenses, a badge, tag or card issued by
the town as proof of issuance of a license. The card, tag or badge shall state
the name of the licensee and the date of expiration of the license.
   (B)   Blanket licenses shall be displayed and readily available for
inspection by the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-9)
§ 111.10 CONSENT OR INVITATION REQUIRED.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the town by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant vendors and transient vendors of
merchandise and service, not having been requested or invited to do so by the
owner or occupant of the private residence, for the purpose of soliciting
orders for merchandise or services, or for the purpose of selling, disposing or
providing the same, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and punishable as
provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-10) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions enumerated. The following are exempt from the license
requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Farmers and truck gardeners from lands owned, cultivated or
controlled by them, who offer for sale or sell, or who solicit and sell from
house to house, vegetables, butter, eggs and farm products produced and raised
by the farmers and truck gardeners from such land or produced thereon; and
      (2)   Needy ex-servicepersons holding a certificate duly issued by a
district judge having jurisdiction as provided by law.
   (B)   Interstate commerce. Any person who desires to be exempt from the
license fees levied under this chapter due to engaging in interstate commerce
shall provide sufficient data on transactions and proof to the town to
establish the interstate commerce nature of his or her business and
transactions. If the town refuses to issue an interstate commerce exemption for
the license fees to a commercial business activity, then the applicant is
entitled to a hearing before the Town Judge.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-11)
§ 111.12 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE; CONFLICTS.
   The requirements of this chapter are cumulative to any provisions of state
law or town ordinances regulating or governing any of the activities licensed
herein. In the case of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
those of any other town ordinance or state law, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-12)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-13)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Levy and payment of occupation tax
   
112.03   Application for license; conditions
   
112.04   Application for certificate of zoning and code compliance
   
112.05   Compliance with state
   
112.06   General prohibitions
   
112.07   Restrictions concerning underage persons
   
112.08   Transportation in vehicles; exceptions
   
112.09   Consumption in public places
   
112.10   Location of retail package stores, mixed beverage establishments
   
112.11   Package store premises separate from other business premises
   
112.12   Hours of operation
   
112.13   Sale or delivery prohibited on certain days
Low-Point Beer
   
112.25   Definitions
   
112.26   State licenses
   
112.27   Retail dealer’s license required; fees
   
112.28   Application for license
   
112.29   Location of retail dealers
   
112.30   Restrictions concerning underage persons
   
112.31   Sales prohibited during certain hours; exception
   
112.32   Transportation in vehicles; exception
   
112.33   Inspection by town officers
   
112.34   Obscenity; state regulations applicable
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions of terms used in this chapter shall be in conformity with
those provided in 37A O.S. § 1-103.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABLE COMMISSION. The Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement Commission of
the state.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those terms are
defined in statute, and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as a
beverage by human beings, but does not include low-point beer as that term is
defined in §
112.25.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-1)
§ 112.02 LEVY AND PAYMENT OF OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax levied. There is hereby levied and assessed an annual occupation
tax on every business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages as
specifically enumerated herein and pursuant to the provisions of 37A O.S. § 4-
104, in the amount as set by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or
resolution.
   (B)   Brewer and class B wholesaler. The occupation tax for a brewer and a
class B wholesaler shall be reduced by 75% if the brewer or class B wholesaler
is also the holder of a license from the state to manufacture or wholesale any
low-point beer.
   (C)   Payment in advance; license term; proration. The occupation tax levied
herein shall be paid in advance annually, on or before April 1, to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, who shall issue a receipt therefor. The tax shall be prorated
on a monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins operations.
   (D)   Issuance of receipt; record of licensees. Upon payment of the
occupation tax, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a receipt, signed by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer, to the state licensee paying such occupation tax. The
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall also record the name of the licensee and the address
where the licensee engages in his or her occupation. Such record shall be duly
filed and kept in the permanent files of the town for at least five years.
Thereafter, upon resolution by the Board of Trustees, it may be destroyed.
   (E)   Posting of receipt on premises. Any state licensee shall post his or
her tax receipt in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein he or she
carries on his or her occupation.
   (F)   Limitation of coverage; tax nonrefundable. The occupation tax shall
cover only the person paying the tax and no other, or a successor thereof, and
shall not be refundable.
   (G)   Annual report to state. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall make and
transmit to the ABLE Commission an annual report showing the number and class
of licenses subject to the tax and the amount of money received therefrom.
   (H)   Failure to pay tax; suit for recovery.
      (1)   All sums due from any person by reason of occupation taxes imposed
by this chapter and all penalties accruing from such person by reason of
failure to pay such tax shall be recoverable at the suit of the town, brought
against such person in any court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   In any suit, in addition to the tax and penalties, the plaintiff
shall recover interest, at the rate of 10% per annum, upon all sums due by way
of tax and penalty from the date of accrual thereof, and all costs of
collection, judicial or otherwise, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, all to
be determined by the court.
      (3)   Prosecution for an offense against the town arising out of the
failure to pay a tax levied by this chapter, regardless of the outcome thereof
or its continued pendency, shall not constitute a defense or bar in any manner
to the collection of the tax and penalties, if any are due, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-2) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Contents of application. Every person desiring to obtain a license as
provided for herein shall make application to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, on
forms to be provided, setting forth the location of the business, the names of
all persons interested in the business, together with their addresses; if a
corporation, the application shall include the names of the president and
managing officer.
   (B)   Requirements for issuance of license. No licensee shall be issued a
license without satisfactory showing that the applicant has:
      (1)   Satisfied the conditions of this chapter;
      (2)   Obtained all applicable state and county permits or licenses; and
      (3)   Paid the tax as required herein.
   (C)   Compliance with zoning regulations. No license shall be issued or
valid unless the licensee meets the requirements of the town zoning ordinances
and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-3)
§ 112.04 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF ZONING AND CODE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Conditions of application. Every applicant for a certificate of
compliance with the zoning, fire, health and safety codes of the town required
by 37A O.S. shall apply at the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer by:
      (1)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
      (2)   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount as set by
the Board of Trustees at the time of filing.
   (B)   Investigation of premises. Upon receipt of an application for a
certificate of compliance, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall cause an
investigation to be made to determine whether the premises proposed for
licensed operations comply with the provisions of the zoning ordinance and any
health, fire, building or other safety codes applicable to it.
   (C)   Issuance of certificates.
      (1)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning
shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
      (2)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable fire, safety and health codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
   (D)   Time limit for action; signature of Mayor. The Town Board shall act on
such applications within 20 days of receipt thereof. The certificates of
compliance shall be signed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-4)
§ 112.05 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE.
   No person shall own, operate or maintain a retail package store or mixed
beverage establishment, or produce, manufacture, distribute, rectify, bottle or
sell any beer, spirits, wine or other alcoholic beverage, without first
complying with state law and obtaining valid licenses issued by the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-5) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Sale, possession and consumption. No person shall:
      (1)   Purchase any alcoholic beverage at retail or wholesale from any
person other than a dealer licensed by the ABLE Commission;
      (2)   Except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, drink any alcoholic
beverage in public except on the premises of a licensee who is authorized to
sell or serve alcoholic beverages by the individual drink, or be intoxicated in
a public place;
      (3)   Open a container of intoxicating beverages or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a retail package store; or
      (4)   Possess more than one quart of any alcoholic beverage unless the
state tax has been paid thereon, except as may be otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   Giving as prize; happy hours. No licensee shall:
      (1)   Give any alcoholic beverage as a prize, premium or consideration
for any lottery, game of chance or skill or any type of competition; or
      (2)   Advertise or offer “happy hours” or any other means or inducements
to stimulate the consumption of alcoholic beverages, including:
         (a)   Deliver more than two drinks to one person at one time;
         (b)   Sell or offer to sell to any person or group of persons any
drinks at a price less than the price regularly charged for such drinks during
the same calendar week, except at private functions not open to the public;
         (c)   Sell or offer to sell to any person an unlimited number of
drinks during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private
functions not open to the public;
         (d)   Sell or offer to sell drinks to any person or group of persons
on any one day at prices less than those charged the general public on that
day, except at private functions not open to the public;
         (e)   Increase the volume of alcoholic beverages contained in a drink
without increasing proportionately the price regularly charged for such drink
during the same calendar week; or
         (f)   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or
contest which involves drinking or the awarding of drinks as prizes.
   (C)   Lewdness or obscenity. No licensee shall:
      (1)   Allow any person on the premises where low-point beer or alcoholic
beverages are sold or dispensed for consumption on the premises of the licensee
where such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to
expose to view any portion of the breast below the top of the areola or any
portion of the pubic area, buttocks or genitalia;
      (2)   Permit any person to perform acts of, or acts which simulate,
sexual acts;
      (3)   Permit any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
depict any lewd activities; or
      (4)   Permit the showing of films, still pictures, electronic
reproduction or other visual reproduction depicting any of the prohibited acts
in this section.
   (D)   Drink solicitation. No licensee shall permit any drink solicitation,
or request from a patron to purchase any low-point beer or intoxicating
alcoholic beverage for consumption on the premises of the licensee, as that
term is defined in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-6) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   (A)   Selling or furnishing to prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall sell, deliver, furnish or give any alcoholic
beverage to any person under the age of 21 years, except that this division (A)
(1) shall not apply to a parent or guardian as regards his or her child or
children.
      (2)   No licensee shall permit any person under 21 years of age to enter,
remain within or be about the premises of a retail package store or mixed
beverage establishment.
      (3)   No person under 21 years of age shall enter, remain within or be
about the premises of a retail package store or mixed beverage establishment.
   (B)   Misrepresentation of age. No person shall misrepresent his or her age,
either orally or in writing or by presenting false or altered documentation of
age, for the purpose of inducing any person to sell him or her alcoholic
beverages.
   (C)   Employment of underage persons. No licensee shall employ, assist or
aid in causing the employment of any person under the age of 21 years in the
selling, manufacture, distribution or other handling of alcoholic beverages.
However, a mixed beverage, caterer or special event licensee may employ servers
who are 18 years of age or older, except in designated bar or lounge areas.
   (D)   Possession. No person under the age of 21 years shall be in possession
of any alcoholic beverage while such person is upon any public street, road,
highway or in any public place.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-7) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 TRANSPORTATION IN VEHICLES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Restriction. No person shall knowingly transport alcoholic beverages
in any vehicle upon any public highway, street or alley unless in the original
container which is unopened, the seal unbroken and the original cap in place.
   (B)   Exception. Division (A) above shall not apply if the opened container
is in the rear trunk or compartment, or the spare tire compartment in a vehicle
commonly known as a station wagon or panel truck, or in any outside compartment
which is inaccessible to the driver or any passenger while the vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-8) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person within the town shall drink intoxicating liquor in any public
place, unless authorized by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being 37A O.S.
§§ 1-101 et seq., nor shall any person be intoxicated in a public place within
the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-9) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 LOCATION OF RETAIL PACKAGE STORES, MIXED BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall own, operate, maintain or have any interest in any
retail package store which is located at a place in the town which is forbidden
as a location for such store by state laws or town ordinances.
   (B)   The location of a retail package store or mixed beverage establishment
is specifically prohibited within 300 feet from any church property primarily
and regularly used for worship services and religious activities, or a public
school. If any such church or school shall be established within 300 feet of
any licensed premises after such premises had been licensed, this shall not be
a bar to renewal of such license by the ABLE Commission as long as it has been
in continuous force and effect. The distance shall be measured from the nearest
property line of such church or school to the nearest public entrance door of
the premises of such package store or mixed beverage establishment along the
street right-of-way line providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by
pedestrians between such points. A retail package store or mixed beverage
establishment shall not be located on any town block where a church or school
is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-10) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 PACKAGE STORE PREMISES SEPARATE FROM OTHER BUSINESS PREMISES.
   No person shall maintain, operate or assist in any manner in the maintenance
or operation of a package store upon premises which are not separated from
adjoining premises, on which any other goods, wares or merchandise are sold or
services are rendered, by nontransparent walls, broken only, if at all, by a
passage to which the public is not admitted. No person shall take any alcoholic
beverage through such passageway for the purpose of selling or reselling such
beverage, or for the purpose of delivery thereof in connection with a sale of
such beverage.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-11) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Package store premises. No package store licensee shall sell or keep a
package store premises open for the purpose of selling any alcoholic beverages
at any hour other than between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., Monday
through Saturday.
   (B)   Beverages sold on premises.
      (1)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold, dispensed, served or consumed
on the premises of a bottle club between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.
No licensee shall permit any person, who has in his or her possession an open
container having as its contents an intoxicating alcoholic beverage, to remain
in a bottle club between the hours of 2:15 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.
      (2)   No person, having in his or her possession an open container,
having as its contents an intoxicating alcoholic beverage, shall remain in a
mixed beverage establishment between the hours of 2:15 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, an OPEN CONTAINER shall mean any
receptacle containing low-point beer or intoxicating alcoholic beverage, to
include the original container of the beverage where the original seal has been
broken or opened.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-12) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 SALE OR DELIVERY PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN DAYS.
   (A)   Compliance with state law. No licensee shall engage in retail sale of
alcoholic beverages on such days and times as prohibited by the state law.
   (B)   Days enumerated. No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages shall sell
or deliver to any package store, and no package store shall sell any amount of
spirits or wines, on Saturday or Sunday of any week or on New Year’s Day,
Memorial Day, the Fourth Of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-13) Penalty, see §
112.99
LOW-POINT BEER
§ 112.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOW-POINT BEER. All beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume
and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer
or cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion
of barley or other grain, malt or similar products.
   MINOR. A person who, in accordance with state law, has not yet attained the
age at which the consumption of low-point beer is permitted.
   RETAIL DEALER. Includes any and all persons who sell, distribute or dispense
any low-point beer at retail to the public for consumption or use, whether
consumed on the premises or not.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-1)
§ 112.26 STATE LICENSES.
   No person shall engage in the business of selling, offering for sale or
distributing any low-point beer, at retail, for consumption or use, without
first having obtained a state license to do so, and in cases where such
beverages are consumed on the premises, a license as provided by the statutes
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-2) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.27 RETAIL DEALER’S LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   License required, payment of fee. No person shall sell, distribute or
dispense any low-point beer at retail to the public without first having
obtained a license to do so from the town and making payment in advance to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer in the amount as provided herein.
   (B)   Fee set by Town Board; term of license.
      (1)   The annual fee shall be set by the Town Board by motion or
resolution for a license under this subchapter for retail dealers selling low-
point beer for consumption on or off the premises, and retail dealers selling
low-point beer in original packages and not for consumption on the premises.
      (2)   The license shall expire annually on June 30.
   (C)   License nontransferable. No license issued hereunder is transferable.
   (D)   Conditions for issuance. Licenses required by this subchapter shall be
issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer upon payment of the required fee and
compliance by the applicant with all applicable ordinances of the town, and
upon a satisfactory showing that the applicant has obtained such state and
county permits as are required by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-3) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.28 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An applicant for a retail dealer’s license or renewal of such license shall
deposit the required fee with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and submit an
application on the form provided containing the information required by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-4)
§ 112.29 LOCATION OF RETAIL DEALERS.
   No person shall own, operate, maintain or have any interest in any retail
dealer which is located at a place in the town which is forbidden as a location
for such store by state laws or town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-5) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.30 RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   (A)   Prohibited on premises; exceptions.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person who holds a license to sell and
dispense low-point beer for consumption on the premises, or any agent, servant
or employee of the license holder, to permit any minor to be admitted to or
remain in a separate or enclosed bar area of the licensed premises which has as
its main purpose the selling or serving of low-point beer for consumption on
the premises, unless the minor’s parent or legal guardian is present. The
provisions of this division (A)(1) shall not prohibit minors from being
admitted to an area which has as its main purpose some objective other than the
sale or serving of low-point beer, in which sales or serving of the beverages
are incidental to the main purpose, as long as minors are not sold or served
the beverages; however, the incidental service of food in the bar area shall
not except a licensee, agent, servant or employee from the provisions of this
division (A)(1).
      (2)   If the premises of a holder of a license to sell low-point beer
contains a separate or enclosed bar area which has as its main purpose the sale
or serving of low-point beer for consumption on the premises, no minor shall
enter, attempt to enter or remain in the area. The provisions of this division
(A)(2) shall not prohibit minors from entering or remaining in an area which
has as its main purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of low-
point beer, in which sales or serving of the beverages are incidental to the
main purpose, if the minors are not sold or served or do not consume low-point
beer anywhere on the premises; provided, however, that the incidental service
of food in the bar area shall not exempt minors from the provisions of this
division (A)(2).
      (3)   A showing by competent testimony that a minor was found upon
premises of a retail dealer shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
division (A)(2) above.
   (B)   Sales to. It is unlawful for any person who holds a license to sell
and dispense low-point beer, or any agent, servant or employee of the license
holder, to sell, barter or give to any minor any low-point beer. This division
(B) shall not apply to a parent as regards his or her own child or children.
   (C)   Employment of underage persons.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to be employed
or permitted to work, in any capacity whatsoever, in a place where low-point
beer is sold or dispensed for consumption on the premises.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any minor to be employed or permitted to work,
in any capacity whatsoever, in the separate or enclosed bar area of a place
where the main purpose of the area is the sale or consumption of low-point
beer. The provisions of this division (C)(2) shall not apply to any area which
has as its main purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of low-
point beer, in which sales or serving of the beverages are incidental to the
main purpose; however, the incidental service of food in the bar area shall not
exempt a holder of a license to sell low-point beer for consumption on the
premises from the provisions of this division (C)(2).
      (3)   A parent, as regards the employment of his or her own child or
children, is excepted from the provisions of this division (C); provided, that
such employment shall in no capacity whatsoever be related to the selling or
dispensing of such beverages.
      (4)   The provisions of division (C)(1) above shall not apply to any
business or establishment where sales of the beverages do not exceed 25% of the
gross sales of the business or establishment.
   (D)   Possession while in public. No minor shall be in possession of any
low-point beer or beer while such person is upon any public street, building or
place.
   (E)   Consumption in public place.
      (1)   No minor shall consume or possess with intent to consume low-point
beer in any public place.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply when such
persons are under the direct supervision of their parent or guardian, but in no
instance shall this exception be interpreted to allow such persons to consume
such beverages in any place licensed to dispense beer as provided for in 37A
O.S. § 2-109.
   (F)   Misrepresentation of age. No person shall represent his or her age
either orally or in writing or by presenting false or altered documentation of
age for the purpose of inducing any person to sell him or her low-point beer.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-6) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.31 SALES PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No retail dealer licensed to sell low-point beer shall sell such
beverages for consumption on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:
00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   No retail dealer of any business selling low-point beer, as that term
is defined in §
112.25, for consumption on the premises, nor any operator, agent or employee of
the retail dealer, shall permit any person, who has in his or her possession an
open container having as its contents a low-point beer, to remain in the
premises between the hours of 2:15 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day. No person,
having in his or her possession an open container having as its contents a low-
point beer, shall remain in the premises between the hours of 2:15 a.m. and 7:
00 a.m. on any day. For the purpose of this section, an OPEN CONTAINER means
any receptacle containing low-point beer or intoxicating alcoholic beverage, to
include the original container of the beverage where the original seal has been
broken or opened.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-7) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32 TRANSPORTATION IN VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall knowingly transport in any moving vehicle upon a public
highway, street or alley within the town any low-point beer except in the
original container, which shall have not been opened, and from which the
original cap or seal shall have not been removed, unless the opened container
be in the rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire
compartment in a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which
is not accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is
in motion.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-8) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33 INSPECTION BY TOWN OFFICERS.
   Town officers may make inspections of all places of business where low-point
beer is sold, distributed or dispensed at retail, for the purpose of enforcing
the laws and for ascertaining whether the operators thereof are complying with
the requirements of the law relating to the handling of low-point beer.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-9)
§ 112.34 OBSCENITY; STATE REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of state law, 37A O.S. § 3-102, are hereby incorporated
herein by reference and enforceable fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-10)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
112.30(E) shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-6)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE; MORALS
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Attempts to commit an offense
   
130.03   Aiding in an offense
   
130.04   Capacity to commit offense
   
130.05   Intoxication; no defense
   
130.06   Witness; self-incrimination
   
130.07   Nuisances
   
130.08   Conspiracy
   
130.09   Limitations of actions
   
130.10   Lawful use of force
   
130.11   Penalty not to excuse offense
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFFENSE. Whenever used in this code or in any title, chapter, section or
ordinance of the town, means the unlawful act of doing, or failing to do, some
particular act or thing construed therein to be detrimental to the general
welfare, morals, peace, health or safety of the inhabitants of the town.
   VIOLATION. The doing of any acts or things prohibited, or failing to do any
of the acts or things commanded to be done, as more fully specified and set
forth by any provision of this code or any title, chapter or section hereof, or
future ordinances of the town, is hereby declared to be an offense against the
good order, public peace, morals, health, proper government and welfare of the
town and unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
§ 130.02 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense or
misdemeanor, punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 CAPACITY TO COMMIT OFFENSE.
   All persons are capable of committing an offense as herein provided, except
those belonging to the classes following:
   (A)   Children under the age of seven years;
   (B)   Children over the age of seven years, but under the age of 14 years,
in the absence of proof that at the time of committing the act or neglect
charged against them they knew its wrongfulness;
   (C)   Persons who are impaired by reason of mental retardation, mentally ill
persons and all persons of unsound mind, including persons temporarily or
partially deprived of reason, upon proof that at the time of committing the act
charged against them they were involuntarily incapable of knowing its
wrongfulness;
   (D)   Persons who committed the act, or made the omission charged, under an
ignorance or mistake of fact which disproves any criminal intent. But ignorance
of the law does not excuse from punishment for its violation;
   (E)   Persons who committed the act charged without being conscious thereof;
and
   (F)   Persons who committed the act, or made the omission charged, while
under involuntary subjection to the power of superiors.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4)
§ 130.05 INTOXICATION; NO DEFENSE.
   No act committed by any person while in a state of intoxication, whether
from liquor or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by reason of his or her
being in such condition.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5)
§ 130.06 WITNESS; SELF-INCRIMINATION.
   No person, otherwise competent as a witness, shall be incapacitated, excused
or disqualified from testifying concerning the offense mentioned in any
section, chapter or title of this code, or any ordinances hereafter enacted on
the grounds that his or her testimony might incriminate him or her, but the
testimony which may be given by such witness shall in no case be used against
him or her.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6)
§ 130.07 NUISANCES.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to permit, maintain, aid, abet
or sanction a nuisance on or about any premises owned by him or her or under
his or her control at any place within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 CONSPIRACY.
   Any two or more persons assembled or who shall assemble with the intent to
mutually agree to do any unlawful act with force or violence and shall make any
movement therefor against the property of the town or the person or property of
another person shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09 LIMITATIONS OF ACTIONS.
   The time within which a charge may be filed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be one year from the date of the commission or omission or, in
cases involving fraud, deception or deceit, one year from the discovery of the
fraud, deception or deceit unless otherwise provided by the statutes of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-9)
§ 130.10 LAWFUL USE OF FORCE.
   (A)   Cases where force allowed. To use or to attempt to offer to use force
upon or toward the person of another is not unlawful in the town in the
following cases:
      (1)   When necessarily committed by a public officer in the performance
of any legal duty, or by any other person assisting him or her or acting by his
or her direction;
      (2)   When necessarily committed by any person in arresting one who has
committed any felony, and delivering him or her to a public officer competent
to receive him or her in custody;
      (3)   When committed either by the party about to be injured, or by any
other person in his or her aid or defense, in preventing or attempting to
prevent an offense against his or her person, or any trespass or other unlawful
interference with real or personal property in his or her lawful possession;
provided, that the force used is not more than sufficient to prevent such
offense, and that the same shall be necessary for the self-defense of his or
her person or property;
      (4)   When committed by a parent or authorized agent of any parent, or by
any guardian, master or teacher, in the exercise of a lawful authority to
restrain or correct his or her child, ward, apprentice or scholar; provided,
that restraint or correction has been rendered necessary by the misconduct of
such child, ward, apprentice or scholar, or by his or her refusal to obey the
lawful command of such parent or authorized agent or guardian, master or
teacher, and the force used is reasonable in manner and moderate in degree;
      (5)   When committed by a carrier of passengers, or the authorized agents
or servants of such carrier, or by any person assisting them at their request,
in expelling from any carriage, inter- urban car, vessel or other vehicle, any
passenger who refuses to obey a lawful and reasonable regulation prescribed for
the conduct of passengers, if such vehicle has first been stopped and the force
used is not more than is sufficient to expel the offending passenger, with a
reasonable regard to his or her personal safety;
      (6)   When committed by any person in preventing a person who is impaired
by reason of mental retardation or developmental disability, a mentally ill
person, insane person or other person of unsound mind, including persons
temporarily or partially deprived of reason, from committing an act dangerous
to himself or herself or to another, or enforcing such restraint as is
necessary for the protection of his or her person, or for his or her
restoration to health, during such period only as shall be necessary to obtain
legal authority for the restraint or custody of such person;
      (7)   In preventing or interrupting an intrusion upon the lawful
possession of property; and
      (8)   To preserve the peace or prevent the commission of an offense.
   (B)   Limitation of force. Where force is permitted to effect a lawful
purpose, only that degree of force necessary to effect such purpose shall be
used.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.11 PENALTY NOT TO EXCUSE OFFENSE.
   The imposition of one penalty for an offense shall not excuse it or permit
it to continue, nor prevent the imposition of further penalties, should the
offenses be continued or permitted to continue.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-11)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
131.01   Assault and battery
   
131.02   Reckless conduct with weapons or firearms
§ 131.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence
to do corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another.
   (B)   Prohibited act. No person shall commit an assault or battery, or both,
upon the person of another.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 RECKLESS CONDUCT WITH WEAPONS OR FIREARMS.
   (A)   Term defined. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      RECKLESS CONDUCT. An act which creates a situation of unreasonable risk
and probability of death or great bodily harm to another and which demonstrates
a conscious disregard for the safety of another.
   (B)   Prohibited act. It is unlawful for any person to endanger another’s
safety by reckless conduct in the operation or handling of any weapon or
instrument, including a pistol, revolver or other firearm.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE; MORALS
Section
Offenses Against Public Peace
   
132.01   Disturbing the peace
   
132.02   Disturbing funerals
   
132.03   Disorderly conduct
   
132.04   Unnecessary noise
   
132.05   Parades, public assemblies
   
132.06   Curfew for minors
Offenses Against Public Morals
   
132.20   Public intoxication
   
132.21   Marijuana prohibited
   
132.22   Drug paraphernalia
   
132.23   Sniffing glue, paint and other substances
   
132.24   False representation
   
132.25   Prowling on premises
   
132.26   Obscene, threatening or harassing telecommunication calls
   
132.27   Disorderly house
   
132.28   Nudity, indecent exposure
   
132.29   Gambling and gambling devices
   
132.30   Prostitution
   
132.31   Offenses near school
   
132.32   Sleeping in public places or on private property
   
132.33   Contributing to delinquency of a minor
   
132.34   Tobacco to minors prohibited
   
132.35   Providing alcohol to minors
 
   
132.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
§ 132.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   Prohibition generally. It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of
another or others by doing any of the acts set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   Prohibited acts enumerated. Disturbing the peace is the doing of any
of the following in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the
peace of another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or
not, at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Holding an unlawful assembly of three or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (7)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise; by
rude, indecent or improper behavior; by profane, improper or loud language; or
in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (8)   Obstructing the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles on a
street, right-of-way or sidewalk, or other public place;
      (9)   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully in a
public place;
      (10)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (11)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship: by making noise; by rude, indecent or improper behavior; by
profane, improper or loud language; or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; and/or
      (12)   Committing any other act in such a manner calculated as to
unreasonably disturb, interfere with or alarm the public or the comfort and
repose of any person.
   (C)   Police authority to disperse. Whenever any police officer shall, in
the exercise of reasonable judgment, decide that the presence of any person in
any public place is causing any of the conditions enumerated in division (B)
above, he or she may, if he or she deems it necessary for the preservation of
the public peace and safety, order that person to leave that place, and anyone
who shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by a police officer
shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
   (D)   Exception. This section shall not apply to peaceful picketing, public
speaking or other lawful expressions of opinion not in contravention of other
laws.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-3) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 DISTURBING FUNERALS.
   No person shall willfully disturb, interrupt or disquiet any assemblage of
people who have met for the purpose of any funeral, or obstruct or detain any
person engaged in accompanying any funeral to a place of burial.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-4) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the intent to cause
public inconvenience, annoyance, alarm or recklessly creating the risk thereof,
he or she:
   (A)   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any
person is placed in fear of safety for his or her life, limb or health;
   (B)   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the
property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
   (C)   Endangers the lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry
threats and abusive conduct;
   (D)   Jostles or crowds or pushes any person in any public place;
   (E)   Uses “fighting words” directed toward any person and thus creates a
turmoil;
   (F)   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so
as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another; or
   (G)   By acts of violence, interferes with another’s pursuit of a lawful
occupation.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-5) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which
either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others within the limits of the town.
   (B)   Permit for certain activities. Permits may be granted by the town for
certain activities and events which are exempt from the provisions of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-6) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 PARADES, PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Parade defined. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, demonstration, exhibition,
pageant or procession of any kind, or any similar display, in or upon any
street, park or other public place in the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
   (B)   Permit required; exception.
      (1)   Permit required.
         (a)   No person shall use any street, alley, public way, park or other
property owned or controlled by the town, except those places specifically
designed and intended for such use, for the purpose of holding, conducting,
causing or participating in any parade, street fair, street dance, carnival,
assemblage or activity of any nature which may cause the disturbance or
interference of the normal and ordinary use of the property by other persons,
without first having obtained a permit for such purpose.
         (b)   Such permit may be granted by the Town Clerk-Treasurer under
such conditions as deemed appropriate.
      (2)   Exception. Permits shall not be required under this chapter in the
case of construction or repairs to or within any such street or property;
provided, that there is compliance with all other requirements of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2)
   (C)   Application for permit.
      (1)   Not less than two weeks prior to the closing or use of a street or
property for a parade, an application shall be submitted by the party to the
town. The time requirements may be waived by the Town Clerk-Treasurer at his or
her discretion if sufficient time exists for the proper review of the
application as herein provided.
      (2)   The application shall be submitted upon a form prescribed by the
town and shall provide such other information as requested.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3)
   (D)   Conditions for issuance of permit. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue a permit as provided for hereunder when, from a consideration of the
application and from such other information as may otherwise be obtained, he or
she finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      (2)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of police officers of the town to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the town;
      (3)   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions
of the town other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and
areas contiguous thereto;
      (4)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas;
      (5)   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
      (6)   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;
and
      (7)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4)
   (E)   Denial of permit; alternate permit.
      (1)   Permit denial. Without regard to the provision of this code, the
Town Clerk-Treasurer, from his or her consideration of available, appropriate
and necessary information, shall deny the application for a permit provided for
by this chapter when, from this information, he or she has reason to believe
that any contemplated advocacy at the proposed event will be directed to
inciting or producing imminent lawless action and will likely incite or produce
such action.
      (2)   Alternate permit. The Town Clerk-Treasurer, in denying an
application for a parade permit, may authorize the conduct of the parade on a
date, at a time or over a route different from that named by the applicant. An
applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall so indicate within five
days after notice of the action of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. An alternate
parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect
of, a parade permit under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5)
   (F)   Insurance or bond. The Town Clerk-Treasurer, in such cases as shall be
determined in his or her discretion, may require as a condition to the issuance
of a permit herein such insurance or bond holding the town harmless from any
and all liability for injury or damage of any kind whatsoever occurring during
such activity covered by the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 21 years who is in loco parentis to
a minor.
      GUARDIAN. Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18; and, where year of age continues
from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but not including the day of)
the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it clear that 17 or less
years of age is herein treated as equivalent to the phrase “under 18 years of
age.”
      PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
café, theater, drugstore, pool room, shopping center and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also
include the front or immediate area of the places listed herein.
   (B)   Hours of restriction; exceptions. It is unlawful for any minor to
remain, wander, stroll or play in any public place on foot or to cruise about
without a set destination in any vehicle in, about or upon any public place in
the town between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (C)   Allowing minors on premises after curfew. It is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation operating or having charge of any public place to
knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors between the hours of curfew
designated in division (B) above.
   (D)   Parental responsibility; exceptions. It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian, custodian or other adult person having custody or control of any
minor to suffer or permit or by inefficient control to allow such person to be
on any public place within the town between the hours of curfew designated in
division (B) above. The provisions of this section do not apply if:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor;
      (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed by his or her parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
having the care and custody of the minor; or
      (3)   The parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made a
missing person notification to the Town Police Department.
   (E)   Special events or functions. The Board of Trustees may permit by
resolution or motion procedures for advance notice or registration with the
town of special events or functions sponsored by churches, schools, clubs or
other organizations which require minors to be out at a later time. The Board
of Trustees may also prescribe the procedures for taking into custody minors
found in violation of this section.
   (F)   Application for exemption.
      (1)   A parent, guardian or custodian of such minor may file a written
application directed to the Chief of Police of the town who may grant a special
exemption of enforcement of the curfew provided by this section being required
as to such minor, which exemption shall not exceed five consecutive days, or in
the alternative, two days of any week for a period not to exceed 30 days. All
requests shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to grant or reject any
request for an exemption to enforcement of the curfew provided by this section
or may reduce the time limit of such exemption. However, any applicant for such
exemption, feeling aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police, may file a
request for hearing before the Judge of the Municipal Court of the town, who
shall summarily hear same, and his or her judgment shall be final.
   (G)   Authority of law enforcement officer. Any law enforcement officer who
shall witness a violation of this section may take such offender into his or
her custody to be prosecuted for such violation, require the posting of a
sufficient bond for such minor’s appearance in court, or may place the minor in
the custody of his or her parents or some responsible person.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1) (Ord. 168, passed 8-7-2000; Ord. 177, passed 6-30-2008)
Penalty, see §
132.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
§ 132.20 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   No person shall be in any public place in a state of intoxication.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a STATE OF INTOXICATION means the
condition in which a person is under the influence of drugs, intoxicating
liquors or low-point beer to such an extent as to deprive the person of his or
her full mental or physical power or be unable to exercise care for his or her
own safety or the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-7) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.21 MARIJUANA PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin, but shall not include the mature stalks of such
plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such
plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of
germination.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana;
      (2)   To use, have or possess marijuana upon or in any street, alley,
place of business or other public place within the town;
      (3)   To use marijuana in any place within the town except as legally
prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the state; or
      (4)   To be about a place where marijuana is sold or furnished illegally.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-8) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.22 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
         (a)   All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are
used, intended for use, or fashioned specifically for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body, a controlled dangerous substance in
violation of the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act (the “Act”),
including, but not limited to:
            1.   Kits used, intended for use or fashioned specifically for use
in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled dangerous substance or from which a controlled
dangerous substance can be derived;
            2.   Kits used, intended for use or fashioned specifically for use
in manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled dangerous substances;
            3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or fashioned
specifically for use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is
a controlled dangerous substance;
            4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use or fashioned
specifically for use in identifying, or in analyzing the strength,
effectiveness or purity of controlled dangerous substances;
            5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use or fashioned
specifically for use in weighing or measuring controlled dangerous substances;
            6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use or fashioned
specifically for use in cutting controlled dangerous substances;
            7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or
fashioned specifically for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in
otherwise cleaning or refining, marijuana;
            8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or fashioned specifically for use in compounding controlled
dangerous substances;
            9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use or fashioned specifically for use in packaging small
quantities of controlled dangerous substances;
            10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or
fashioned specifically for use in parenterally injecting controlled dangerous
substances into the human body;
            11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended
for use or fashioned specifically for use in parenterally injecting controlled
dangerous substances into the human body;
            12.   Objects used, intended for use or fashioned specifically for
use in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish
or hashish oil into the human body, such as:
               a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured
metal bowls;
               b.   Water pipes;
               c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
               d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
               e.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
               f.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
               g.   Chamber pipes;
               h.   Carburetor pipes;
               i.   Electric pipes;
               j.   Air driven pipes;
               k.   Chillums;
               l.   Bongs; or
               m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
            13.   All hidden or novelty pipes; or
            14.   Any pipe that has a tobacco bowl or chamber of less than one-
half inch in diameter in which there is any detectable residue of any
controlled dangerous substance or any other substances not legal for possession
or use.
         (b)   The term DRUG PARAPHERNALIA shall not include separation gins
intended for use in preparing tea or spice, clamps used for constructing
electrical equipment, water pipes designed for ornamentation in which no
detectable amount of an illegal substance is found or pipes designed and used
solely for smoking tobacco, traditional pipes of an American Indian tribal
religious ceremony or antique pipes that are 30 years of age or older.
   (B)   Factors for consideration. In determining whether an object is drug
paraphernalia, a court or other authority should consider, in addition to all
other logically relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      (2)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
      (3)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the Act;
      (4)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      (5)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
      (6)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows,
or should reasonably know, intended to use the object to facilitate a violation
of the Act; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object,
as to a direct violation of the Act shall not prevent a finding that the object
is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      (7)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      (8)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      (9)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      (10)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      (11)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      (12)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (13)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      (14)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   (C)   Use or possession. It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess
with intent to use, drug paraphernalia; to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
the Act.
   (D)   Delivery. It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with
intent to deliver or manufacture with intent to deliver drug paraphernalia,
knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will
be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound,
convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store,
contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human
body a controlled substance in violation of the Act.
   (E)   Advertising. It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper,
magazine, handbill or other publication any advertisement, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed
or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-9) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.23 SNIFFING GLUE, PAINT AND OTHER SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall sniff or inhale paint, glue, gasoline or other volatile
substances for purposes of intoxication.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-10) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.24 FALSE REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   False representation to obtain money or aid. No person shall falsely
represent himself or herself as blind, deaf, crippled or physically defective
for the purpose of obtaining money or other things of value, or to secure aid
or assistance on account of such false representation.
   (B)   Misrepresenting age by false documents. No person shall, for the
purpose of violating any statutes of the state or any ordinances of the town,
willfully and knowingly misrepresent his or her age by presenting a false
document purporting to state his or her true age or by presenting a document
not his or her own.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-11) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.25 PROWLING ON PREMISES.
   No person shall be upon the property or premises of another with the intent
to peer or peep into the window or door of the dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-12) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.26 OBSCENE, THREATENING OR HARASSING TELECOMMUNICATION CALLS.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for a person who, by means of a
telecommunication or other electronic communication device, willfully:
      (1)   Makes any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is
obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent;
      (2)   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication with
intent to terrify, intimidate or harass, or threaten to inflict injury or
physical harm to any person or property of that person;
      (3)   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication,
whether or not conversation ensues, with intent to put the party called in fear
of physical harm or death;
      (4)   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication,
whether or not conversation ensues, without disclosing the identity of the
person making the call or communication and with intent to annoy, abuse,
threaten or harass any person at the called number;
      (5)   Knowingly permits any telecommunication or other electronic
communication under the control of the person to be used for any purpose
prohibited by this section; and/or
      (6)   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, makes
repeated calls or electronic communications or simultaneous calls or electronic
communications solely to harass any person at the called number(s).
   (B)   Telecommunication and electronic communication described. For the
purpose of this section, TELECOMMUNICATION and ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION mean
any type of telephonic, electronic or radio communications, or transmission of
signs, signals, data, writings, images and sounds, or intelligence of any
nature by telephone, including cellular telephones, wire, cable, radio,
electromagnetic, photoelectronic or photo-optical system, or the creation,
display, management, storage, processing, transmission or distribution of
images, text, voice, video or data by wire, cable or wireless means, including
the internet. The term includes:
      (1)   A communication initiated by electronic mail, instant message,
network call or facsimile machine; and
      (2)   A communication made to a pager.
   (C)   Use of telephone, other electronic communication facility described.
Use of a telephone or other electronic communications facility under this
section shall include all use made of such a facility between the points of
origin and reception. Any offense under this section is a continuing offense
and shall be deemed to have been committed at either the place of origin or the
place of reception.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-13) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.27 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   Definition; prohibited acts. For the purpose of this section, a
DISORDERLY HOUSE means any structure or vehicle by which the peace, comfort,
health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the people
therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
      (1)   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      (2)   The violation of any of the ordinances of the town or statutes of
this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages and low-point beer as defined by law;
      (3)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state
statute or town ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for
purposes of prostitution; and/or
      (4)   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
   (B)   Maintaining or leasing.
      (1)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining, a disorderly house.
      (2)   No owner, lessee, lessor or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle is so occupied as
a disorderly house, no person, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
   (C)   Residents and visitors.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into or remain in a
disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the town
shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not
by circumstantial evidence.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to physicians or officers in the
discharge of their professional or official duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-14) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.28 NUDITY, INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of state law,
21 O.S. § 1021 regulating nudity, indecent exposure or lewdness. The provisions
of state law are adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-15) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.29 GAMBLING AND GAMBLING DEVICES.
   (A)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   Any person who plays or carries on, or opens or causes to be
opened, or who conducts, either as owner or employee, roulette, craps or any
banking or percentage game, played with dice, cards or any other device, for
money, checks, credit or any representative of value, or any other gambling
game, is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   Any person who bets on or plays at any of the prohibited games
mentioned in division (A)(1) above, or otherwise gambles, is guilty of an
offense.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to exhibit or expose to view in any
building, or in any part of, or room in, any building, any table, cards, dice,
roulette wheel or other article or apparatus designed for or used for gambling
purposes.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to keep, own, operate, use, conduct
or cause to be kept, operated, used or conducted, either as owner, manager,
dealer, clerk or employee, and whether for hire or not, any punch board,
machine, cards, game, parlay card or any other device or paraphernalia, wherein
or whereby any money or property or any representative of either, or other
valuable thing, may be played, bet, staked, wagered or hazarded, won, lost or
obtained upon any chance, combination of numbers, emblems or any uncertain or
contingent event or condition, or football or baseball contest.
      (5)   It is unlawful for any person to play any prohibited game described
in this section.
      (6)   It is unlawful for any person to bar or barricade any building, or
any part of or room in any building, in order to render the same difficult of
access or ingress to the police officers of the town, in which building, or any
part of or room in any such building, any table, cards, dice, roulette wheel or
other article or apparatus designed for or being used for gambling purposes are
exhibited or exposed to view.
      (7)   It is unlawful for any person to be about in the immediate vicinity
where a person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a
slot machine or other device or otherwise.
   (B)   Seizure of apparatus and paraphernalia. The apparatus and
paraphernalia used in the conduct of any of the gambling games prohibited by
this section are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and subject to
seizure and suppression by any officer, and shall be abated, forfeited and
destroyed upon the order and decree of any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Exception, bingo. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
prevent the sponsoring and operation of bingo games by nonprofit religious,
fraternal, charitable or educational organizations; provided, that the
organizations are properly licensed and operated in accordance with law.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-16) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.30 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      KNOWN PROSTITUTE OR PROCURER. A person who, within one year prior to the
date of the suspected violation of this section, has, within the knowledge of
the arresting officer, been convicted of a violation of this section or has
been convicted of violating any statute or ordinance of any jurisdiction which
makes prostitution or soliciting for the purpose of prostitution unlawful.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving or receiving of the body for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any thing of value; or
the making of any appointment or engagement for sexual intercourse, fellatio,
cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any person not his
or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing of value.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful:
      (1)   To engage in prostitution, lewdness or assignation;
      (2)   To solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit an act of
lewdness, assignation or prostitution; or
      (3)   To aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts herein
prohibited.
   (C)   Keeping or housing prostitute. No person shall in any way or manner
whatever, keep, harbor or house any prostitute.
   (D)   Enticing person into house of prostitution. No person shall entice or
attempt to entice any person into a house of prostitution, or have illicit
sexual intercourse with any person under 18 years of age.
   (E)   Maintaining or leasing house of prostitution.
      (1)   No person shall keep or maintain a house of prostitution or house
of assignation.
      (2)   No person shall lease, let or furnish any building, room, tent or
structure of any kind, or any conveyance used or to be used as a place of
prostitution or assignation within the town, or knowingly permit the same to be
so used.
   (F)   Accepting money from prostitute. No person shall knowingly accept,
receive, levy or appropriate any money or other thing of value without
consideration from a prostitute or from the proceeds of any persons engaged in
prostitution.
   (G)   Securing or transferring another for prostitution.
      (1)   No person shall offer, or offer to secure, another for the purpose
of prostitution, or for any other lewd or indecent act.
      (2)   No person shall direct, take or transport, or offer or agree to
take or transport, or aid or assist in transporting, any person to any house,
place, building or other structure, vehicle, trailer or other conveyance, or to
any other person with knowledge or having reasonable cause to believe that the
purpose of such directing, taking or transporting is prostitution, lewdness or
assignation.
   (H)   Soliciting in public; arrest.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to be present in a public place in a
manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution.
      (2)   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether such a purpose is manifested are: that such person is a known
prostitute or procurer; that such person repeatedly beckons to, stops or
attempts to stop or engage passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or
attempts to stop motor vehicle operators by hailing, waving of arms or any
other bodily gesture.
      (3)   No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (H) unless
the arresting officer first affords such person an opportunity to explain such
conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division (H) if it
appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-17) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.31 OFFENSES NEAR SCHOOL.
   No person shall engage in any of the conduct or acts hereinafter set forth
around, in or near any school or school grounds or streets and alleys adjacent
to any school:
   (A)   Any conduct that would disturb the orderly conduct of the school;
   (B)   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   (C)   Lewd or wanton conduct in, near or around any of the schools or school
grounds or streets and alleys adjacent to the schools;
   (D)   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school for the
purpose of annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school; or
   (E)   Any other act or conduct calculated to or likely to annoy or molest
any student or employee of such school.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-18) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.32 SLEEPING IN PUBLIC PLACES OR ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person, without lawful reason, between the hours of
12:00 a.m. and sunrise, to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or
on any property of another without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner
or person in charge of such place.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-19) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.33 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANY PERSON. Any human being, without regard to the legal or natural
relationship to a minor, as well as legal or corporate entities.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   Committing offense. Any person who shall knowingly or willfully cause,
aid, abet or encourage a minor to be, to remain or to become a delinquent
child, as defined by state law, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.34 TOBACCO TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust
or association, however formed.
      PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license for identification only, or
other generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual
as 18 years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
      SAMPLE. A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost
for the purpose of promoting the product.
      SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a
public place.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption.
   (B)   Unlawful to sell or furnish.
      (1)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to sell or furnish in
any manner any tobacco product to another person who is under 18 years of age,
or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product on behalf of any such person.
However, it shall not be unlawful for an employee under 18 years of age to
handle such products when required in the performance of the employee’s duties.
      (2)   Demand proof of age. A person engaged in the sale or distribution
of tobacco products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under 18 years of age.
   (C)   Unlawful to purchase, accept or possess. It is unlawful for a person
who is under 18 years of age to purchase, accept receipt of, or have in their
possession a tobacco product, or to present or offer to any person any
purported proof of age which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her
own, for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product. It shall
not be unlawful for such a person to handle such tobacco product when required
in the performance of such person’s duties.
   (D)   Distribution of tobacco samples.
      (1)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute
tobacco product samples to any person under 18 years of age.
      (2)   Distributing near school or playground. Notwithstanding division
(D)(1) above, no person shall distribute tobacco product samples in or on any
public street, sidewalk or park that is within 300 feet of any playground,
school or other facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons
under 18 years of age.
   (E)   Sale of cigarettes in original package. It is unlawful for any person
to sell cigarettes except in the original, sealed package in which they were
placed by the manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.35 PROVIDING ALCOHOL TO MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOL. Includes any type of substance classified under state law as
containing alcohol or low-point beer.
      GATHERING. A party, gathering or event where a group of three or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
the court.
      MINOR. Any person less than 21 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent
or stepparent of another person.
      PREMISES. Any residence or other private property, place or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
      RESPONSE COSTS. The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement, fire
or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding
to, remaining at or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the administrative
costs attributed to such response(s);
         (b)   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at or leaving the scene of a gathering;
         (c)   The cost of repairing any town equipment or property damaged,
and the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at
or leaving the scene of a gathering; and
         (d)   Any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this
section.
   (B)   Consumption of alcohol by minor in public place, place open to public
or place not open to public. Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful
for any minor to:
      (1)   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public
alcoholic beverages; or
      (2)   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   (C)   Hosting, permitting or allowing party, gathering or event where minors
consuming alcoholic beverages prohibited.
      (1)   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises, to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting drivers’ licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in division (C)(1) above.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use of
alcohol to immediate family members within supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public, then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as a non-family gathering.
      (5)   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public,
then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
non-religious gathering.
   (D)   Reservation of legal options. Violations of this section may be
prosecuted by the town, criminally, civilly or through both processes. The town
may seek administrative fees and response costs associated with enforcement of
this section through all remedies or procedures provided by statute, ordinance
or law. This section shall not limit the authority of peace officers or private
citizens to make arrests for any criminal offense arising out of conduct
regulated by this section, nor shall they limit the town’s ability to initiate
and prosecute any criminal offense arising out of the same circumstances
necessitating the application of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, any person who is
convicted of violating the provisions §
132.26(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a second offense under §
132.26 shall be guilty of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-13)
   (C)   Any person violating §
132.34(C) shall be subject to penalty as set out in 10A O.S. § 2-8-224.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
132.35 shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99, plus all court costs and statutory penalties.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
133.01   Larceny
   
133.02   Altering keys
   
133.03   Possession of stolen property
   
133.04   Defrauding public accommodations
   
133.05   Concealing unpurchased merchandise
   
133.06   Failure to pay fare for public conveyance
   
133.07   False or bogus checks
   
133.08   Harmful deception
   
133.09   Property destruction or removal
   
133.10   Motor vehicle; damaging
   
133.11   Utilities, tampering with or damaging
   
133.12   Trees and shrubbery; destruction
   
133.13   Trespassing; notice; soliciting
   
133.14   Congregating, parking on premises after hours
   
133.15   Unlawful intrusion on land
   
133.16   Throwing or shooting objects at persons or property
   
133.17   Littering
   
133.18   Posting advertising matter
   
133.19   Interference with radio, television or telephone reception
   
133.20   False weights
   
133.21   Electric fences
   
133.22   Garbage container of another; unlawful use
   
133.23   Fireworks prohibited; exception
   
133.24   Entering upon certain posted property
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 LARCENY.
   (A)   Petit larceny; embezzlement. No person shall steal, take or carry away
by fraud or stealth, with intent to deprive another thereof, any personal
property under the value of $50, or embezzle any money, personal property or
effects of another under the value of $50. This division (A) does not apply to
taking property from the person of another.
   (B)   Larceny by false pretense. No person shall induce, or attempt to
induce, any person to give up or pay over any money or other thing of value
which money or value does not exceed $50, by any false representation or
pretense, or in exchange for any false or bogus coin or check, draft or other
false evidence of value, or in consideration of refraining from a lawful or
unlawful arrest, or in consideration of refraining from reporting any unlawful
act to any public official.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 ALTERING KEYS.
   No person shall make or alter, or attempt to make or alter, any key or other
instrument that will open the lock of a building unless requested to do so by
some person having the right and authority to make such request.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-2) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 POSSESSION OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   No person shall keep in his or her possession, or dispose of, or conceal any
stolen property, or fail promptly to inform some proper official of the
possession thereof, under circumstances indicating that such property had been
stolen or the possession thereof obtained unlawfully.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-3) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 DEFRAUDING PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (A)   Taking with intent to defraud. No person shall obtain food, lodging or
other accommodation in any hotel, motel, inn, boarding, eating or rooming house
or place, or any other lodging place, with the intent to defraud the owner or
keeper.
   (B)   Proof of attempt to defraud. Proof that lodging, food and other
accommodations were obtained by false pretense or fictitious show of any
package or other property or that the person gave a check or negotiable paper
on which payment was refused or that the person left the hotel, motel, inn,
boarding, eating or rooming house or place, or other lodging place, without
paying or offering to pay for the food, lodging or other accommodation, or that
the person surreptitiously removed or attempted to remove the package or
property, or that the person registered under a fictitious name shall be prima
facie proof of attempt to defraud.
   (C)   Refusal to pay legal fare of vehicle. No person shall refuse to pay
the legal fare of any of the vehicles mentioned in §
133.06 after having hired the same, and no person shall hire any vehicle with
intent to defraud the person from whom it is hired of the value of such
service.
   (D)   Exception. This section shall not apply where there has been an
agreement in writing for delay in payment.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-4) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 CONCEALING UNPURCHASED MERCHANDISE.
   Any person concealing unpurchased merchandise of any establishment, either
on the premises or outside the premises of the establishment, shall be presumed
to have so concealed the merchandise with the intention of committing a
wrongful taking of such merchandise. Such concealment or the finding of such
unpurchased merchandise concealed upon the person or among the belongings of
such person shall be conclusive evidence of reasonable grounds and probable
cause for the detention in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of
time of such person by a merchant, his or her agent or employee; any such
reasonable detention shall not be deemed to be unlawful nor render any such
merchant, his or her agent or employee, criminally or civilly liable.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-5) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 FAILURE TO PAY FARE FOR PUBLIC CONVEYANCE.
   No person shall use or accept the use and services of any streetcar,
taxicab, omnibus, automobile or any other means of public conveyance of
passengers, operating under the code, ordinance, franchise, permit or license
of the town or state, and refuse or fail to pay to the operator of the
conveyance the usual, customary, regulation or legal charge, or price as fare
immediately upon the performance of the service.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-6) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK(S)
shall include checks or orders, including those converted to electronic fund
transfer, which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker
to pay same or because the check or order was drawn on a closed account or on a
nonexistent account when such checks or orders are given:
      (1)   In exchange for money or property;
      (2)   In exchange for any benefit or thing of value;
      (3)   As a down payment for the purchase of any item of which the
purchaser is taking immediate possession, as against the maker or drawer
thereof; or
      (4)   As payment made to a landlord under a lease or rental agreement.
   (B)   The making, drawing, uttering or delivering of a check, draft or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit
with, such bank or other depository; provided, that such maker or drawer shall
not have paid the drawee thereof the amount due thereon, together with the
protest fees, within five days from the date the same is presented for payment;
and provided, further, that the check or order is presented for payment within
30 days after same is delivered and accepted.
   (C)   A check offered for the purchase of goods or livestock that is refused
by a drawee shall not be considered to be an extension of credit by the seller
of goods or livestock to the maker or drawer of the check.
   (D)   A check or order offered to a merchant in payment on an open account
of the maker with the merchant shall mean “a check or order given in exchange
for a benefit or thing of value,” notwithstanding that the merchant may debit
the account of the maker or impose other charges pursuant to applicable law in
the event the check or order is not honored.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-7)
§ 133.08 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-8) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 PROPERTY DESTRUCTION OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   Defacing building, damaging property.
      (1)   No person shall purposely deface or damage any public or private
building or appurtenances thereof, or any fence, street, bridge, sidewalk,
driveway, street or public work.
      (2)   No person shall:
         (a)   Destroy, injure, deface, damage or molest any structure,
building, work or other property, real or personal, belonging to another;
         (b)   Use such property wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or
other person entitled to its use; or
         (c)   Interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its
owner or any other person entitled to its use.
   (B)   Removing or breaking private property. No person shall willfully,
unlawfully or maliciously take and carry or cause to be taken and carried away
any part of a house, barn, fence, gate or other structure, or maliciously
break, tear down or destroy any part of a house, barn or other structure not
his or her own.
   (C)   Damaging private property. No person shall willfully and wantonly
damage or destroy the personal property of another.
   (D)   Public works under construction.
      (1)   Any person who removes, destroys, disturbs or in any manner injures
any grade stake, stone or other mark or monument set by or under authority of
the town to designate or mark grades, lines, corners or bench marks on any
public work in the town prior to the completion and acceptance of the contract
for which such stakes or monuments are set, without lawful authority, is guilty
of an offense.
      (2)   Any contractor or other person constructing any public work in the
town shall protect such work by barriers or obstructions. It is unlawful for
any person to cross the barriers or to remove them until the work has been
completed and opened by authority of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-9) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.10 MOTOR VEHICLE; DAMAGING.
   (A)   Damage. No person, other than a peace officer in the performance of
his or her official duties, shall, with intent and without right to do so,
injure or tamper with any vehicle or in any other manner damage any part or
portion of the vehicle or any accessories, appurtenances or attachments
thereto.
   (B)   Climbing into or upon vehicle. No person, other than a peace officer
in the performance of his or her official duties, shall, without right to do so
and with intent to commit a crime, climb into or upon a vehicle, whether it is
in motion or at rest, attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes or other mechanism or device of the vehicle while the vehicle
is at rest and unattended, or set in motion any vehicle while the vehicle is at
rest and unattended.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-10) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.11 UTILITIES, TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING.
   (A)   Damaging or tampering with wires, pipes. No person shall alter,
remove, tamper with, molest, damage or injure any wires, cable, appurtenance,
structure, pipes or equipment of any utility of the town, or any public
utility, or connect or tamper with the wires, cables or pipes of any electric,
water, sewer, cable television or gas utility or of the town without consent of
the utility or town having been first obtained.
   (B)   Opening manhole or sewer. It is unlawful to open up any manhole or
opening to a sewer unless authorized by the town, or to leave a manhole or
other opening so opened without replacing the fixture or appliances thereto in
their proper place and position.
   (C)   Use or blocking of fire hydrants. No person except a member of the
Fire Department or a person acting on lawful order or permit issued by the town
shall open or use water from any fire hydrant, or take off the caps or damage
the same. No person may block the approach or access to a fire hydrant or
attach, fasten, stand or brace anything against or on the hydrant.
   (D)   Additional prohibited acts. No person shall in any manner whatsoever:
      (1)   Cut into, attach to or intercept the wires, cables or pipes of any
electric, water, cable television or gas utility or of the town for the purpose
of fraudulently taking therefrom electric current, water, transmissions or gas;
      (2)   Cut into, attach to or intercept the wires, cables or pipes for the
purpose of conducting around any meter electric current, water or gas in order
to prevent the current, water or gas from being measured by the meter, or in
such other manner so as to consume or use the utility or cable service so as to
evade payment therefor, with the unlawful intent to defraud the company or town
out of the value of the service; or
      (3)   By any device or manipulation whatsoever to cause current,
transmissions, water or gas used upon any premises to be fraudulently conveyed
upon any premises for the purposes of use thereof, and with the intent to
defraud and cheat the utility or town from payment thereof.
   (E)   Each day a separate offense. Each day that any person maintains any
such fraudulent connection with any wires, cables or pipes, or fraudulently
takes from any such wires, cables or pipes either electric current,
transmissions, water or gas shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-11) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.12 TREES AND SHRUBBERY; DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   Destruction on property of another. No person shall willfully,
maliciously and without lawful authority cut down, root up, sever, injure or
destroy any fruit tree, shade or ornamental tree, cultivated root or plant,
grape or strawberry vine, shrub or plant whatever standing on or attached to
the land of another, or pick, destroy, carry away therefrom or in any way
interfere therewith, any of the fruit thereof.
   (B)   Destruction on public ground. No person shall willfully or without
lawful authority cut down, destroy, root up or in any manner injure any fruit,
shade or ornamental tree, shrub or vine planted or growing on any street, land,
avenue, alley or other public ground of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-12) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.13 TRESPASSING; NOTICE; SOLICITING.
   (A)   Trespass prohibited. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
commit a trespass within the town upon either public or private property.
   (B)   Trespass defined. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      TRESPASS. Includes each and every actual entry upon the premises of an
owner or other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express
consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. TRESPASS shall also
mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in lawful
possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or the
agent or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of the
premises. TRESPASS shall also mean the act of entering upon or remaining on
private property when such is plainly forbidden by signs, markings or
otherwise, by verbal command of the owner, his or her agent or employee, or
after having been directed to do so by a police officer, although this
definition shall not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence upon
the premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of
such premises. TRESPASS shall also include the act of returning to private
property after having been directed to vacate the premises by the owner, his or
her agent, employee or police officer under the terms of this section.
   (C)   Additional prohibited acts. Any of the following acts by any person
shall be deemed a violation of this section:
      (1)   The doing of an injury or misfeasance to the person of another;
      (2)   The doing of any injury or misfeasance to the property of another
when done with force and violence, either actual or implied;
      (3)   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of another owner or
person in possession of real property, whether the property is public or
private, without the owner’s or occupant’s consent, express or implied;
      (4)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another in
violation of a notice exhibited thereon prohibiting entry at specified times;
      (5)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or other lawful occupant thereof;
      (6)   An entry upon any public property, including parks or parking
areas, in violation of a notice exhibited there prohibiting entry at specified
times;
      (7)   An entry upon any public property in violation of any notice,
warning or protest given orally or in writing by a town official;
      (8)   If on the property of another, or upon public property lawfully, a
failure or refusal to depart in case of being requested to so depart orally or
written, by any owner, lawful occupant or by a town official;
      (9)   An entry upon any portion of a public park, where the entry
involves the use of any vehicle, equipment or device where such use is
specifically prohibited;
      (10)   An entry of any public building, except for the purpose of
dispatching business with the public corporation or consent, is obtained from
the Town Board of Trustees or other public official which is lawfully
authorized to give consent; or
      (11)   Remaining on public or private property at any time other than
during posted hours of business operation after having been directed to vacate
such premises by a police officer. The provisions of this division (C)(11)
shall not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence upon such
premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of such
premises; nor shall the provisions of this division (C)(11) apply unless hours
of business operation are posted upon such premises. Trespass also includes the
act of returning to private property before the posted time of opening for
business operation on the next business day after having been directed to
vacate such premises under the terms of this division (C)(11).
   (D)   Notice criteria. For purposes of constituting a violation of this
section, the exhibited notice required under divisions (C)(4), (C)(5), (C)(6),
(C)(7) and (C)(9) above shall meet the following criteria:
      (1)   The notice shall be plainly posted in a place or places conspicuous
to those who would enter the property;
      (2)   The notice shall be legible so as to afford reasonable warning
prior to the commission of a trespass; and
      (3)   If upon property to which the public is invited at least some part
of the day, the notice shall clearly specify the days and times of day entry is
prohibited and further specify that entry at such times constitutes a
punishable offense under the town code.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-13) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.14 CONGREGATING, PARKING ON PREMISES AFTER HOURS.
   (A)   Congregating prohibited. No person shall stand, walk, sit, lie,
congregate or otherwise occupy or remain upon the premises of any place or
business within the town after business hours without consent of the lawful
owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof.
   (B)   Parking prohibited. No person shall stop, stand, park, leave or place
any motor vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon any public or private property
without the consent of the owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof, except
where such property is provided for public parking and the use for such parking
is not restricted by proper notice. In addition to fine or other punishment for
a violation of this division (B), the vehicle so parked, left or placed shall
be subject to impoundment upon complaint of the property owner or lawful
occupant; the person violating this division (B) shall be wholly responsible
for payment of towage and storage charges.
   (C)   Posting of premises required. No person may be charged under this
section unless the premises in question is posted with a conspicuous sign which
states, substantially, that the premises are posted, and that any person
congregating, occupying or remaining upon the premises or parking or leaving a
motor vehicle thereon, is subject to prosecution pursuant to the town code.
   (D)   After business hours described. For the purpose of this section, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      AFTER BUSINESS HOURS. The doors of the business which are open to the
public during business hours are closed and locked and that the business is no
longer admitting customers. The term applies to places of business which are
vacant or permanently or temporarily closed, or otherwise unoccupied.
      PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any private property upon which a building, house or
other structure is used for commercial or public purposes, e.g., without
limitation: restaurants; gas stations; shopping malls or centers; theaters;
convenience stores; grocery stores; drugstores or pharmacies; recreational
facilities; wholesale or retail sales activities; offices; banks or other
financial institutions; manufacturing; or professional services (medical,
legal, accounting, insurance or consulting).
   (E)   Rebuttable presumption.
      (1)   There is a rebuttable presumption that any person or motor vehicle
upon the premises of a place of business that is properly posted pursuant to
this section after such time as the front door or other such door that admits
members of the public is closed and locked is on the premises of such business
unlawfully under this section; however, this presumption shall not be applied
within 30 minutes of any opening or closing times posted by such place of
business. This presumption may only be rebutted by proof beyond a reasonable
doubt that any person held by the Municipal Judge to be subject to this
rebuttable presumption was on the premises in question with permission of the
lawful owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof.
      (2)   If a motor vehicle is alleged to be unlawfully parked or left under
this section, it shall be rebuttably presumed that the person in whose name the
motor vehicle was last registered was the person who parked or left the motor
vehicle.
   (F)   Provisions cumulative. The provisions of this section are cumulative
of other applicable offenses enacted in this code or state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-14) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.15 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION ON LAND.
   (A)   No person shall intrude or remain upon any lot or piece of land, or in
any building within the town without license or authority from the owner
thereof, or erect or occupy thereon any structure whatever without such license
or authority.
   (B)   No person shall place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the town any structure whatever unless such person
is granted a license by the town to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-15) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.16 THROWING OR SHOOTING OBJECTS AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   Throwing or shooting at persons or property. No person shall throw or
shoot any object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he
or she is likely to hit another person wrongfully, or injure property, or throw
any object at any person, vehicle, structure or property of another, whether
public or private, except where such is done in defense of oneself or another
person or property.
   (B)   Throwing lighted substances or debris. No person shall throw, drop,
deposit or otherwise place in, upon or within the limits of any street, avenue,
public ground, public waterway or town-owned property or waterway any lighted
cigarette, cigar or other flaming or glowing substances, or any substance or
thing which may cause a fire.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-16) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.17 LITTERING.
   It is unlawful to throw, deposit or discharge any item or waste material,
liquid or solid, on any street or public place in the town or upon the property
of another without express authority to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-17) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.18 POSTING ADVERTISING MATTER.
   (A)   Buildings of another.
      (1)   No person shall place upon any building any advertising matter of
any kind, nor print or exhibit printing on a building or any part thereof, in
words, signs or characters, except with the express consent of the owner,
lessee or authorized agent of the owner of the building.
      (2)   No person shall place, post, paint, mark, write, print or put any
sign, poster, picture, announcement, writing, device, advertisement or other
marking upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge, post,
automobile or vehicle or property of another without the consent of the owner
or person in charge thereof.
   (B)   Utility poles; streets and sidewalks.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to place any advertising matter of
any kind on any utility pole, or to place any advertising on the streets or
sidewalks of the town or to place any advertising on any signs or banners
stretched over the streets or sidewalks of the town.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any permanently
located commercial or business establishment in the town from erecting and
maintaining business or commercial signs in accordance with the ordinances of
the town, nor to prohibit the granting of permission by the town to religious,
charitable, patriotic or civic bodies to use banners across the streets of the
town in such places as may be designated by the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the
observance of holidays, charitable drives and the commemoration and celebration
of other public or civic occasions.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-18) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.19 INTERFERENCE WITH RADIO, TELEVISION OR TELEPHONE RECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person, or any officer or employee of any person, to
operate or use any citizen band radio, ham radio or other electrical apparatus
or machine which materially and unduly interferes with radio, television or
telephone reception of others.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-19) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.20 FALSE WEIGHTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell any commodity or article of
merchandise and in the sale thereof knowingly make or give a false or short
weight therefor or for any person owning or keeping or having charge of any
scale used in weighing any animal, commodity or article to knowingly and
willfully report any false or untrue weight whereby another person shall be
defrauded or damaged.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-20) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.21 ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect, install or maintain any electrically
charged fence within the town, except that the Building Official may issue a
permit for an electrically charged fence to retain animals upon proof that the
fence will not be hazardous to life and upon proof that the electric charge is
regulated by a controlling device.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-21) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.22 GARBAGE CONTAINER OF ANOTHER; UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   Unlawful use of container of another. It is unlawful and an offense
for any person to dispose of garbage, refuse, rubbish or waste into any refuse
container, dumpster or other receptacle for the deposit of same belonging to or
leased by another, whether by rental agreement, lease or agreement with the
town or a public or private trash, garbage or refuse hauling service, without
the permission of the owner, lessee or other person entitled to the possession
or use thereof.
   (B)   Use of town dumpsters; permit. It is unlawful and an offense to use
the town dumpsters for dumping without an issued permit therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-22) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.23 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, FIREWORKS shall have the
same meaning as in state law, 68 O.S. §§ 1621 et seq.
   (B)   Sale, possession or discharge. It is unlawful for any person to
manufacture, display, sell, possess or expose for sale, possess, use or
discharge fireworks within the town except as provided in this section.
   (C)   Displays. Pyrotechnic or fireworks displays may be authorized in
accordance with the town fire code when under proper control and the time,
place and manner of the display is permitted by the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-23) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.24 ENTERING UPON CERTAIN POSTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person in possession of any weapon, other than persons
exempt in division (B) below, shall enter or remain on any public property on
which signs have been posted prohibiting the possession of any weapons on the
public property.
   (B)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
commissioned peace officers or duly CLEET licensed armed security personnel who
are under contract with the posting entity which owns, controls, leases or
operates the posted premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-24) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The parking or leaving of a motor vehicle as set forth in §
133.17 shall constitute the offense of unlawful parking or leaving a motor
vehicle after business hours, punishable as provided in §
10.99.
      (2)   If a person violates §
133.17(A), it shall constitute the offense of unlawful presence on property
after business hours or congregating after business hours and is punishable as
provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-14)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
133.28 shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-24)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
134.01   Escaping or assisting in escape
   
134.02   Delivery of articles to person in confinement
   
134.03   Assaulting town officer
   
134.04   Resisting police officer
   
134.05   Citizen duty to assist
   
134.06   Obedience to orders of police and firefighters
   
134.07   Eluding police officer by motor vehicle
   
134.08   Use of siren or whistle
   
134.09   Impersonating police officer or town officer
   
134.10   False statements, reports or complaints
   
134.11   False alarms
   
134.12   Removal of barricades
   
134.13   Resisting public officials
   
134.14   Public conduct at fires and emergencies
   
134.15   Tampering with signs, equipment
§ 134.01 ESCAPING OR ASSISTING IN ESCAPE.
   (A)   Escaping custody. No person lawfully in custody or confined in a jail,
before or after conviction for any violation of the ordinances of the town, or
held in custody going to jail, or working upon the streets or other public
grounds of the town, or in custody of any officer of the town, shall break or
attempt to break such town jail or custody and escape or attempt to escape
therefrom.
   (B)   Conveying instruments to assist escape. No person shall convey into
any jail any disguised instrument or anything proper or useful to facilitate
the escape of any prisoner lawfully committed to or detained in the town jail
for any violation of the town ordinances, for any criminal offense, or lawfully
detained or imprisoned therein, whether such escape is effected or attempted or
not.
   (C)   Assisting prisoner to escape. No person shall in any way aid, remove
or assist any person to resist or escape from custody of any police officer or
from any lawful confinement in the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 DELIVERY OF ARTICLES TO PERSON IN CONFINEMENT.
   No person shall deliver any article or thing to any person under arrest
without the consent of the officer having charge and custody of the prisoner.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 ASSAULTING TOWN OFFICER.
   No person shall knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault and battery
upon any town official or police officer or firefighter while in the
performance of his, her or their duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.04 RESISTING POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   Resisting officer. It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault,
prevent, fail to cooperate with or in any way interfere with a police officer
or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the officer or person is
discharging or attempting to discharge his or her official duties within the
limits of the town.
   (B)   Assisting to escape or evade. It is unlawful for any person to warn or
signal another so as to assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an
officer seeking to make an arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or
barrier in the face of or in front of an approaching officer.
   (C)   Resisting described. Resisting an officer is the intentional
opposition or resistance to, or obstruction of, an individual acting in his or
her official capacity and authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure
of property, or to serve any lawful process or court order, when the offender
knows or has reason to know that the person arresting, seizing property or
serving process is acting in his or her official capacity.
   (D)   Obstruction described. The words OBSTRUCTION OF shall, in addition to
their common meaning, include:
      (1)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him or her and after notice is given that he or she is under
arrest;
      (2)   Any violence toward, or any resistance or opposition to, the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he or she is under arrest; or
      (3)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his or her name and make his
or her identity known to the arresting officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.05 CITIZEN DUTY TO ASSIST.
   It is the duty of all persons in the town, when called upon by any police
officer, to promptly aid and assist him or her in the execution of his or her
duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-5)
§ 134.06 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS OF POLICE AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   No person shall fail to heed a reasonable order of a police officer or
firefighter while such officer is in the discharge of an official duty in
maintaining the public safety or welfare.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.07 ELUDING POLICE OFFICER BY MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible signal,
a red light or a siren from a police officer driving a motor vehicle, showing
the same to be an official police, sheriff or highway patrol car directing the
operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, shall willfully increase his or
her speed or extinguish his or her lights to elude or attempt to elude such
police officer, or attempt in any other manner to elude the police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.08 USE OF SIREN OR WHISTLE.
   (A)   Police whistle. No person shall use any police whistle or any other
instrument used by a police officer to give signals to each other, or imitate
any signal given by one police officer to another or any special signal used by
police officers, for the purpose of improperly or causelessly attracting the
attention of the police.
   (B)   Siren. No person, except members of the Police Department, Fire
Department or ambulance services, shall ring, use or otherwise sound any gong,
siren, whistle or any other device for making similar noise.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.09 IMPERSONATING POLICE OFFICER OR TOWN OFFICER.
   (A)   Police officers.
      (1)   No person, other than police officers of the town, shall wear or
carry the uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or any other insignia of
office like or similar to, or a colorable imitation of, that adopted and worn
or carried by the police officers of the town.
      (2)   No person shall do or attempt any act to impersonate a police
officer.
   (B)   Town officer or employee. It is unlawful to falsely impersonate any
officer or employee of the town, or falsely represent himself or herself to be
an officer or employee of the town, by any kind of representation, pretense,
insignia, sound, clothing or conduct, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of
the duties, functions or powers of an officer or employee of the town without
being authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.10 FALSE STATEMENTS, REPORTS OR COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or file, or cause to be made or filed,
a false or misleading report or misrepresentation, allegation or complaint with
the Police Department or any officer or employee of the town, or on any
official application, or commit perjury before any tribunal of the town.
   (B)   No person shall willfully and without probable cause make a false
report to any person of any crime, violation of the town’s ordinances, or
circumstances indicating the possibility of a crime or violation having been
committed, including, but not limited to, the unlawful taking of personal
property, which report causes or encourages the exercise of police or other
official action or investigation.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.11 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department, Police
Department or any other emergency personnel, or summon any officer or employee
thereof with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, accident or other
emergency, or knowingly to cause the Fire Department or Police Department or
its officers or employees to make a useless or unnecessary run to any part of
the town or outside the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.12 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.13 RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police
officer, the Municipal Judge, or any other officer or employee of the town in
the discharge of his or her official duties;
   (B)   Obstruct, threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate
any officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
   (C)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or
indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.14 PUBLIC CONDUCT AT FIRES AND EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   All persons at fires or other emergencies or accidents shall conduct
themselves in an orderly and lawful manner and shall assist in maintaining law
and order.
   (B)   No person at or near any fire or emergency shall conduct himself or
herself in a disorderly manner or neglect or refuse to promptly obey any order
of the Fire Chief or his or her assistants relative to such fire, and no person
shall resist, obstruct, hinder or abuse any officer of the Fire Department or
any firefighter in the proper discharge of his or her duty.
   (C)   Every police officer present at a fire shall keep back all persons who
are in the way or impeding the work of the Fire Department, and so far as
possible, protect all property from loss or injury, and cooperate with and
assist the Fire Department in every way possible while at the fire. The Fire
Chief or an assistant Fire Chief or any police officer shall have the power to
designate persons to guard any goods.
   (D)   No person shall follow or block the way of any emergency vehicle
engaged in an emergency run or knowingly interfere with officers at the
location of any fire or emergency.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.15 TAMPERING WITH SIGNS, EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to tamper with any sign, signal equipment or
other device placed, operated and maintained by the town in connection with the
administration of its code provisions, ordinances, regulations, services,
functions or performance of duties thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Swimming pools
   
150.002   Moving buildings
Building Code Regulations
   
150.015   Building code adopted
   
150.016   Amendments to adopted codes
   
150.017   Fire limits defined
Plumbing Code Regulations
   
150.030   Plumbing code adopted
   
150.031   Amendments to adopted code
   
150.032   Plumber’s license; bond and insurance
Electric Code Regulations
   
150.045   Electric code adopted
   
150.046   Electricians’ license; bond and insurance
Mechanical Code, Fuel Gas Code and Regulations
   
150.060   Mechanical code and fuel gas code adopted
   
150.061   Amendments to adopted codes
   
150.062   Mechanical license; bond and insurance
Fire Code, Life Safety Code and Regulations
   
150.075   Fire code and life safety code adopted
   
150.076   Modifications
   
150.077   New materials, processes or occupancies; permits
   
150.078   Appeals
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Permit required; fee. No person shall erect, construct or install a
swimming pool within the town limits, whether on public or private property,
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Town Clerk-Treasurer,
accompanied by a permit fee as established by the Town Board by motion or
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-1)
   (B)   Protective barriers required.
      (1)   Plans and specifications for barrier. An applicant for a swimming
pool permit shall also submit to the Town Clerk-Treasurer plans and
specifications for suitable effective barriers for preventing small children
and other unauthorized persons from entering the swimming pool area, including,
but not limited to, any fence, wall or structure not less than 48 inches in
height.
      (2)   Pool enclosure required. No person shall construct, install, erect,
locate or maintain any swimming pool within the town limits unless the pool is
in an area completely enclosed or protected by a suitable effective barrier.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-2)
   (C)   Maintenance and operation, compliance with state regulations. Any
person owning or operating a swimming pool shall not violate any ordinary rules
of safety, sanitation or conservation of the state concerning the maintenance
and operation of the pool.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-3)
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.002 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Permit and fee requirements.
      (1)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to move any house or
building in, along, across or over any street or alley within the town limits
without first having obtained a permit from the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Application and fee; issuance. The Board of Trustees shall issue
the permit upon approval of the proposed move and proper application of the
person and for a fee to be set by motion or resolution.
      (3)   Duration of permit. The permits are good for a five-day period from
date of issue.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-1)
   (B)   Protection of streets and sidewalks. Any person moving such house or
building shall plank all street crossings and sidewalks to prevent damage to
the streets and sidewalks or protect them as required by the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-2)
Penalty, see §
150.999
BUILDING CODE REGULATIONS
§ 150.015 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Building code. The town hereby adopts the International Building Code,
2009 edition, including appendices, as amended and modified in O.A.C. 748:20-1-
1 through 748:20-15-16, at least one copy of which is on file in the office of
the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Such code shall be in full force and effect within
the town to the same extent as if set forth in full in this division (A).
   (B)   Existing building code. The town hereby adopts the International
Existing Building Code, 2009 edition, including appendices, as amended and
modified in O.A.C. 748:20-1-1 through 748:20-15-16, as and for the existing
building code of the town regulating and governing the repair, alteration,
change of occupancy, addition and relocation of existing buildings, including,
but not limited to, historic buildings, as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said existing
building code, at least one copy of which is on file in the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof. Such
code shall be in full force and effect within the town to the same extent as if
set forth in full in this division (B).
   (C)   Residential code for one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses. The
town hereby adopts the International Residential Code for One- and Two-family
Dwellings and Townhouses, 2009 edition, including appendices, as amended and
modified in O.A.C. 748:20-5-1 through 20-5-23, at least one copy of which is on
file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Such code shall be in full
force and effect within the town to the same extent as if set forth in full in
this division (C); provided, however, that in the event of a conflict between
any provision of such code and any provision of the ordinances of the town, the
latter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 183, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 150.016 AMENDMENTS TO ADOPTED CODES.
   The following amendments are hereby made to the codes adopted in §
150.015.
   (A)   Insert “Town of Gage.”
   (B)   Insert that “applicable fees are set by the town by motion or
resolution.”
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 183, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 150.017 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The boundaries of the fire limits of the town shall be as established by the
Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3)
PLUMBING CODE REGULATIONS
§ 150.030 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The town hereby adopts the International Plumbing Code, 2009 edition,
including appendices, as amended and modified in O.A.C. 748:20-1-1 through 748:
20-15-16, at least one copy of which is on file in the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer. Such code shall be in full force and effect within the town to
the same extent as if set forth in full in this section; provided, however,
that in the event of a conflict between any provision of such code and any
provision of the ordinances of the town, the latter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 183, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 150.031 AMENDMENTS TO ADOPTED CODE.
   (A)   Amendments. The following amendments are hereby made to the code
adopted in §
150.030.
      (1)   Insert “the Town of Gage.”
      (2)   Insert that “applicable fees are as set by the town by motion or
resolution.”
   (B)   Water lines. All new or replaced water lines in the town will be a
minimum standard of class 200 PSI PVC.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) (Ord. 183, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 150.032 PLUMBER’S LICENSE; BOND AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   State license required. No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a plumbing contractor, a journeyman plumber or
a plumber’s apprentice unless he or she possesses a current and valid license
as such from the state.
   (B)   Bond and insurance. Bond and insurance requirements of plumbing
contractors shall meet the requirements established by state law.
   (C)   Town registration; fee. No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a plumbing contractor, a journeyman plumber or
a plumber’s apprentice unless he or she has first registered as such with the
town and paid the annual fee set by the Town Board by motion or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3) Penalty, see §
150.999
ELECTRIC CODE REGULATIONS
§ 150.045 ELECTRIC CODE ADOPTED.
   The town hereby adopts the National Electrical Code, 2011 edition, including
appendices, as amended and modified in O.A.C. 748:20-1-1 through 748:20-15-16,
at least one copy of which is on file in the office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. Such code shall be in full force and effect within the town to the
same extent as if set forth in full in this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 183, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 150.046 ELECTRICIANS’ LICENSE; BOND AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   State license required. No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of an electrical contractor, journeyman
electrician or electrician’s apprentice unless he or she holds a current
license obtained from the state.
   (B)   Bond and insurance. Bond and insurance requirements of electrical
contractors shall meet the requirements established by state law.
   (C)   Registration; fee. No person shall practice or engage in the business,
trade or occupation of an electrical contractor, a journeyman electrician or an
electrician’s apprentice unless he or she has first registered as such with the
town and paid the annual fee set by the Town Board by motion or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) Penalty, see §
150.999
MECHANICAL CODE, FUEL GAS CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.060 MECHANICAL CODE AND FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   The town hereby adopts the International Mechanical Code, 2009 edition,
including appendices, and the International Fuel Gas Code, 2009 edition,
including appendices, as amended and modified in O.A.C. 748:20-1-1 through 748:
20-15-16, at least one copy of which is on file in the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer. Such code shall be in full force and effect within the town to
the same extent as if set forth in full in this section; provided, however,
that in the event of a conflict between any provision of such codes and any
provision of the ordinances of the town, the latter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1) (Ord. 183, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 150.061 AMENDMENTS TO ADOPTED CODES.
   The following amendments are hereby made to the codes adopted in §
150.060.
   (A)   Insert “Town of Gage.”
   (B)   Insert that “applicable fees shall be set by the town by motion or
resolution.”
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) (Ord. 183, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 150.062 MECHANICAL LICENSE; BOND AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   State license required. No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a mechanical contractor, a mechanical
journeyman or a mechanical apprentice unless he or she has a current and valid
license issued by the state.
   (B)   Bond and insurance. Bond and insurance requirements of mechanical
contractors shall meet the requirements established by state law.
   (C)   Town registration; fee. No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a mechanical contractor, a mechanical
journeyman or a mechanic’s apprentice unless he or she has first registered as
such with the town and paid the annual fee set by the Town Board by motion or
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3) Penalty, see §
150.999
FIRE CODE, LIFE SAFETY CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.075 FIRE CODE AND LIFE SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   The town hereby adopts the International Fire Code, 2009 edition, including
appendices, as amended and modified in O.A.C. 748:20-1-1 through 748:20-15-16,
and the National Fire Protection Association’s Life Safety Code 101, 2009
edition, including appendices, at least one copy of each being on file in the
office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Such codes shall be in full force and
effect within the town to the same extent as if set forth in full in this
section; provided, however, that in the event of a conflict of any provision of
such codes and any provision of the ordinances of the town, the latter shall
govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1) (Ord. 183, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 150.076 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Board of Trustees shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the fire code and the life safety code upon application in
writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there
are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety
secured and substantial justice done.
      (2)   The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and
the decision of the Fire Chief and Board of Trustees thereon shall be entered
upon the records of the Board of Trustees, and a signed copy shall be furnished
the applicant.
   (B)   The town limits are the boundaries in which storage of flammable
liquids in aboveground tanks, new bulk plants for flammable liquids, bulk
storage of LPG and storage of explosives and blasting agents, are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-2) (Ord. 183, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 150.077 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES; PERMITS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees may act as a committee to determine and
specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes or occupancies which shall require permits, in addition to
those now enumerated in said code.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall post such list in a conspicuous place in his or
her office and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-3)
§ 150.078 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Town Board of Trustees
within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-4)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of such codes adopted in §
150.015 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
   (B)   A violation of any provision of such codes adopted in §
150.030 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
   (C)   A violation of any provision of such codes adopted in §
150.045 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
   (D)   A violation of any provision of such codes adopted in §
150.060 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1)
   (E)   A violation of any provision of such codes adopted in §
150.075 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1)
(Ord. 183, passed 3-5-2013)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
151.01   Excavations, street and curb cuts; permit and fee
   
151.02   Closing public ways or easements
   
151.03   Obstructing public ways prohibited
   
151.04   Interfering with free flow of traffic
   
151.05   Trees and shrubs
   
151.06   Display of merchandise for sale
   
151.07   Structures on or over streets and sidewalks
   
151.08   Playing prohibited
   
151.09   Water draining on streets
   
151.10   Signs or objects obstructing view; sight triangle
   
151.11   Responsibility of adjacent property owner
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 EXCAVATIONS, STREET AND CURB CUTS; PERMIT AND FEE.
   No person shall excavate, cut or dig in any street, sidewalk, curb, alley or
other right-of-way without first applying for and receiving a permit to do so
from the town. Such permission shall be subject to supervision, inspection,
fees and bond or insurance as may be established by the Town Board. The fee for
the excavation, street or curb cut shall be as set by the Town Board by motion
or resolution and paid to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 CLOSING PUBLIC WAYS OR EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Board authority to close. The Town Board shall have the power by
ordinance to close to the public use of any public way or easement within the
town whenever by resolution such closing shall be deemed necessary or
expedient.
   (B)   Resolution declaring necessity. Any resolution declaring the necessity
or expediency for the closing of any public way or easement shall contain the
following:
      (1)   The date and place at which the ordinance closing the public way or
easement will be considered by the Board; and
      (2)   The names and last known addresses of any parties who are holders
of a franchise, or others determined by the Board to have a special right or
privilege granted by ordinance or legislative enactment to use the public way
or easement.
   (C)   Notice required.
      (1)   Persons having special right or privilege. Upon the passage of a
resolution declaring the necessity or expediency for the closing of any public
way or easement, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall give written notice of the
passage of such resolution to any parties who are the holders of a franchise or
who have been determined by the Board of Trustees to have a special right or
privilege granted by ordinance or legislative enactment to use such public way
or easement. Such notice shall contain the date and place at which the
ordinance closing the public way or easement shall be considered by the Board
of Trustees and shall be sent to the persons so entitled to such notice by
certified mail, with return receipt requested, at least 30 days prior to the
date such ordinance shall be considered.
      (2)   Abutting property owners. Property owners of the property abutting
the public way or easement sought to be closed by any ordinance passed pursuant
to this section shall be entitled to the notice provided for in this section.
   (D)   Right to reopen. The town shall retain the absolute right to reopen
the public way or easement without expense to the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 151.03 OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way by leaving or permitting to remain thereon or
therein any vehicle, object, material, structure, fence or other obstruction of
any kind.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 INTERFERING WITH FREE FLOW OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful to:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians;
or
      (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting
on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public
place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress,
egress and regress, therein, thereon and thereto.
   (B)   Remedial action. When any person causes or commits any of the
conditions enumerated in division (A) above, a police officer or any law
enforcement officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing such
conditions and to move on or disburse, or to remove any obstructions. Any
person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty of a violation
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Obstructing view of traffic.
      (1)   Removal. The owner of every lot or parcel of land in the town upon
which any trees, shrubs or plants are growing, or upon which any obstruction
has been placed, shall remove such trees, shrubs, plants or obstruction, or
parts thereof, if they are so situated as to constitute a traffic hazard by
obstructing the view of any driver of any vehicle on the streets of the town to
the extent that the driver is unable to observe the approach of other vehicles
on streets and alleys and at intersections.
      (2)   Trimming.
         (a)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all
trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and the
roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any part of
the premises adjacent to the sidewalks, or any street or alley, in such manner
that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage, sight and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. If premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinbefore required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
         (b)   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses or neglects to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in this section, after receiving ten days’
notice from the Town Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee to do so, is guilty
of an offense against the town. In addition to any fine or punishment as an
offense, the town may act to abate the nuisance. Every day that the owner or
occupant fails, refuses or neglects to trim such trees or shrubbery after the
expiration of the ten days’ notice shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Injuring trees or shrubbery. It is unlawful for any person to injure
any tree or shrubbery on a street or alley in the town. This division (B) shall
not prohibit the lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and
shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE FOR SALE.
   (A)   Display for sale. Except as otherwise provided in this code, it is
unlawful for any person to display any goods, wares or merchandise for sale, or
to sell the same, on any street, alley or sidewalk, or from any vehicle parked
thereon, in the corporate limits of the town. Each separate sale or offer to
sell in violation hereof shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Parking vehicle for sale of merchandise. Any vehicle parked on the
streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of making merchandise available
for sale by the methods prohibited by this section shall be promptly moved by
the driver upon order of the police of the town, and if not promptly moved, the
same shall be towed from such location upon order of the Police Department, and
the driver or custodian of the vehicle shall also be deemed guilty of an
offense.
   (C)   Agent or employee also guilty. In each instance where an individual is
guilty of an offense under the provisions of this section, the person for whom
such individual is acting in the capacity of an agent or employee shall be
guilty of a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 STRUCTURES ON OR OVER STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Permit required for construction. It is unlawful for any person to
erect or construct, or cause to be erected or constructed, any cellar or
basement way, stairway, door, awning post, canopy or any other kind of
structure projecting into, upon or over, and adjoining any street or sidewalk
within the town, except that the Building Official may, in his or her
discretion, authorize the same to be done, where the public health, safety and
necessity demand, by granting a permit therefor.
   (B)   Construction and maintenance conditions. Upon the granting of a permit
under this section, conditions as to the erection of the structure through,
upon or over any street or sidewalk may be fixed by the Town Board of Trustees,
and a contract shall be entered into as to the maintenance of the structure and
an indemnifying agreement secured, indemnifying and saving the town harmless
from any loss, costs or damage by reason of the structure projecting into, upon
or over, and adjoining any street or sidewalk within the fire limits of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 PLAYING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any sport, game, amusement or to
play in, on or across the main traveled portion of any sidewalk, street, avenue
or alley of the town except as may be authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 WATER DRAINING ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to wash or drain into any street, alley or
other public place in the town any water from his or her house or premises, or
to allow any filth or water to escape from his or her premises upon any of the
places mentioned herein, or upon property contiguous thereto. No auto or other
vehicle shall be washed at any place within the town where the water, dirt or
other substances removed therefrom will drain into any street or sidewalk of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 SIGNS OR OBJECTS OBSTRUCTING VIEW; SIGHT TRIANGLE.
   (A)   Safety hazard for pedestrians or vehicles. It is unlawful for any
person to place any object, vehicle or structure on or so near to any street
right-of-way such that same constitutes a traffic or safety hazard for either
pedestrians or vehicular traffic traveling on or onto the street.
   (B)   Sight triangle. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to erect,
construct, locate, maintain or allow to remain on his or her property any sign,
fence or structure within an area known as the SIGHT TRIANGLE, which is defined
as that area formed by measuring from the point of intersection of two lot
lines a distance of 25 feet along each lot line and connecting the points so
established to create a triangle with sides abutting the street right-of-way.
Any sign, fence or structure placed or located in the area is hereby determined
to be a public nuisance, and the Town Board of Trustees is authorized to cause
the structure, fence or sign to be removed.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 RESPONSIBILITY OF ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   Removal of weeds, trash and obstructions. It is unlawful for any
person to allow any obstruction of any kind to accumulate in the sidewalk in
front of his or her premises. All owners and occupants of property are required
to keep their premises and the sidewalks, gutters, streets and alleys adjacent
thereto free from weeds, trash and all obstructions and to remove such weeds,
trash and obstructions from such places.
   (B)   Deposits prohibited. It is unlawful to deposit, throw or sweep into or
upon a street, alley, parking or sidewalk of the town any trash, weeds, tree
trimmings, dirt or any other refuse of any kind.
   (C)   Hazardous conditions prohibited. It is unlawful for the owner or
occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the
sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become a hazard to
persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Interpretation and application
   
152.04   Jurisdiction
   
152.05   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.20   Duty of Zoning Administrator
   
152.21   Zoning clearance permit required
   
152.22   Amendment procedure
Zoning Districts; Map
   
152.35   Zoning districts established
   
152.36   Zoning map
   
152.37   District boundaries described
Zoning District Regulations
   
152.50   General provisions applying to all or several districts
   
152.51   A-G General Agricultural District
   
152.52   R-S Single-Family Residential District
   
152.53   R-G General Residential District
   
152.54   C-C Convenience Commercial District
   
152.55   C-A/R Automotive Commercial and Commercial Recreation District
   
152.56   C-G General Commercial District
   
152.57   I-L Light Industrial District
   
152.58   I-H Heavy Industrial District
   
152.59   Nonconforming uses
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited and referred to as the
Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Gage, Oklahoma.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-1)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted for the following purposes:
   (A)   Promoting the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
community;
   (B)   Lessening congestion in the streets;
   (C)   Securing safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
   (D)   Providing adequate light and air;
   (E)   Preventing the overcrowding of land;
   (F)   Avoiding undue concentration of population;
   (G)   Facilitating the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements;
   (H)   Conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate
use of land throughout the community; and
   (I)   Promoting the development of the community in accordance with a
comprehensive plan.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-2)
§ 152.03 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   As concerns interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements.
   (B)   Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction than is imposed or
required by other provisions of law or by other rules or regulations or
ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
   (C)   Terms and words used are to be used and interpreted as defined in §
152.05. Words used in the present tense include the future; the singular
include the plural, and the plural the singular; the word “building” also means
the word “structure;” the word “used” includes “arranged,” “designed,”
“constructed,” “altered,” “converted,” “rented,” “leased” or “intended to be
used,” and the word “shall” is mandatory and not directory, except where
natural construction of the writing indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-3)
§ 152.04 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter is in full force and effect in the corporate limits of
the town.
   (B)   Territory annexed to the corporate limits of the town, subsequent to
the effective date hereof shall immediately be subject to the provisions of
this chapter and are deemed to be designated as R-S Single-Family Residential
District until altered or reclassified in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-4)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure customarily incidental,
appropriate and subordinate to the principal use of a building, or to the
principal use of land, and which is located upon the same lot therewith.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, horticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the
necessary accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the produce;
provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory use shall be
secondary to that of normal agricultural activities; and provided further, that
the above uses shall not include the commercial feeding of swine or other
animals, stockyards or commercial feedlots for cattle.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way dedicated to public use not more than 30 feet
wide, nor less than 15 feet wide affording a secondary means of access to
abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, is a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities, or
enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height, or the
moving from one location or position to another.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A multi-family dwelling for three or more families, living
independently of each other, and doing their cooking upon the premises.
   AREA, BUILDING. The aggregate of the maximum horizontal cross section area
of the main building on a lot, excluding cornices, eaves, gutters or chimneys,
steps, one story open porches, bay windows not extending through more than one
story and not projecting more than six feet, balconies and terraces.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street, used
for the display, sales or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition and where no repair work is done.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision services including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop; vehicle
steam cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental replacement of parts and motor service
to passenger cars and trucks not exceeding one and one-half tons’ capacity.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION or FILLING STATION. Any area used for retail sale
of gasoline or fuel oils or automobile accessories and incidental services,
including facilities for lubricating, and washing and cleaning, but not
including painting, major repair or the sale of butane or propane fuels.
   AUTOMOBILE WASH or AUTOMATIC CAR WASH. A building or structure or chain
conveyor, blowers, steam cleaners and other mechanical devices used primarily
for the purpose of washing motor vehicles.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BLOCK. In describing the boundaries of a district, the BLOCK refers to the
legal description. In all other cases, the BLOCK refers to the property
abutting on one side of the street between two intersecting streets or between
an intersecting street and a railroad right-of-way or between an intersecting
street and a watercourse.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board of Adjustment of the town; also referred to
as the BOARD.
   BOARDING HOUSE or ROOMING HOUSE. Where meals or lodging are provided for
persons other than the family or their relatives and excluding facilities for
transient persons such as hotels, motels, inns and other such facilities.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls that is
used or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or
property.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average line of the highest
and lowest points of the portion of the lot covered by the building to the
highest point of coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof, or
the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING LINE. The line between which, and the street line or lot line, no
building or other structure or portion thereof, except as otherwise provided by
this chapter, may be erected above the grade level. The BUILDING LINE is
considered a vertical surface intersecting the ground on such line.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building or buildings in which the principal use of
the building site is conducted. In any residential district, any dwelling is
deemed to be the PRINCIPAL BUILDING on the site.
   BULLETIN BOARD. Any sign announcing the activities of an educational,
religious, institutional or similar use.
   CAMPING TRAILER. A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and constructed
with collapsible partial side walls that fold for towing by another vehicle to
provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use.
(Source: NEC).
   CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured persons and those in need of surgical or medical attention
but who are not customarily provided with board and room or kept overnight on
the premises.
   CLUB. A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying
regular dues and organized for some common purpose, but not including a group
organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a
commercial enterprise.
   CONVALESCENT HOME. A nursing home, a rest home, a home for the aged,
recuperating, chronically ill or incurable persons, in which two or more
persons not of the immediate family are received, kept or provided with food
and shelter or care for compensation, but not including hospitals, clinics or
similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of
disease or injury.
   COURT. An unoccupied open space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building, which is bounded on two or more sides by the walls of such building.
   COURT, INNER. A court enclosed on all sides by exterior walls of a building
or by exterior walls and lot lines on which walls are allowable.
   COURT, OUTER. A court enclosed on not more than three sides by exterior
walls and lot lines on which walls are allowable, with one side or end open to
a street, driveway, alley or yard.
   COVERAGE. The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon, including
the area covered by all overhanging roofs.
   DAYCARE CENTER. A facility in which more than 12 clients receive care,
maintenance and supervision by other than their relatives or legal guardians
for less than 24 hours per day. (Reference: NFPA Life Safety Code 10-7.1.1.1.)
(See also definitions of FAMILY DAYCARE HOMES and GROUP DAYCARE HOME.)
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence of
one or more persons, but not including a tent, cabin, trailer coach, mobile
home, boarding or rooming house, hotel or motel.
   DWELLING HOUSE. A detached house designed for and occupied exclusively as
the residence of not more than two families each living as an independent
housekeeping unit.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing three or
more dwelling units and designed for or used by three or more families; also
includes the word APARTMENTS.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing one dwelling unit and
designed for use exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing two dwelling units and designed
for or used exclusively by two families; also includes the word DUPLEX.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms arranged, intended or designed as a
habitable unit, containing kitchen, bath and sleeping facilities for not more
than one family living independently of any other family.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems;
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewer, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories
thereof, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate services by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies, or for the public
health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   FAMILY. A person living alone, doing his or her own cooking and living upon
the premises as a separate housekeeping unit, or a collective body of persons
doing their own cooking and living together upon the premises as a separate
housekeeping unit in a domestic relationship based upon birth, marriage or
other domestic bond as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house, club, fraternity or hotel.
   FAMILY DAYCARE HOMES. A daycare home in which more than three but fewer than
seven clients receive care, maintenance and supervision by other than their
relatives or legal guardians for less than 24 hours per day (generally within a
dwelling unit). (Reference: NFPA 101 Life Safety Code 10-8.1.4.1.) (See also
definitions of DAYCARE CENTER and GROUP DAYCARE HOME.)
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls
or from the centerlines of walls separating two buildings.
   FRONTAGE. The linear measurement of a lot boundary which is abutting a
street.
   GARAGE APARTMENT. A dwelling for one family erected as a part of a private
garage.
   GARAGE PARKING. Any building or portion thereof used for the storage of four
or more automobiles in which any servicing which may be provided is incidental
to the primary use for storage purposes and where repair facilities are not
provided.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal
building used or intended for use by the occupants of the premises for storage
of passenger vehicles or trailers.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. The structure or portion thereof, other than a private
garage, used for the storage, sale, hire, care, repairing or refinishing of any
vehicles.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building in which facilities are provided for the care,
servicing, repair or equipping of automobiles.
   GROUP DAYCARE HOME. A daycare home in which at least seven but not more than
12 clients receive care, maintenance and supervision by other than their
relatives or legal guardians for less than 24 hours per day (generally within a
dwelling unit). (Reference: NFPA 101 Life Safety Code 10-8.1.4.1.) (See also
definitions of FAMILY DAYCARE HOMES and DAYCARE CENTER.)
   HEIGHT. The vertical measurement of any structure on any parcel of land
measured from the average elevation of the lot or parcel to the uppermost point
of the structure.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a
dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which
is conducted entirely within the main or accessory building; provided, that no
trading and merchandising is carried on and in connection with which there is
no display of merchandise or advertising sign other than one non-illuminated
nameplate, not more than two square feet in area, attached to the main or
accessory building, and no mechanical equipment is used except such as is
customarily used in purely domestic or household purposes. A tearoom,
restaurant, rest home, clinic, barbershop, beauty parlor, doctor’s or dentist’s
office, childcare center, tourist home or cabinet shop, metal shop, lawn mower
repair or auto repair garage shall not be deemed a HOME OCCUPATION.
   HOSPITAL. See definition of MEDICAL FACILITIES.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six
or more sleeping rooms occupied or intended or designed to be occupied as the
more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without
meals for compensation, but not including trailer parks, or camp, hospital,
asylum, orphanage or building where persons are housed under restraint.
   INDUSTRY. Storage, repair, manufacture, preparation or treatment of any
article, substance or any commodity for commercial use.
   INSTITUTIONAL USE. The uses organized, established, used or intended to be
used for the promotion of a public, religious, educational, charitable,
cultural, social or philanthropic activity and normally operated on a nonprofit
basis.
   JUNK. Any worn out, cast off or discarded article or material which is ready
for destruction or has been collected or stored for salvage or conversion to
some use. Any article or material which, unaltered or unchanged and without
further reconditioning can be used for its original purpose as readily as when
new shall not be considered JUNK.
   JUNKYARD or SALVAGE YARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvage
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled,
including all wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and
places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment; but not including such places where such uses are
conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, and not including
pawnshops and establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used
furniture and household equipment, used cars in operable condition or salvage
material incidental to manufacturing operations.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises on which three or more dogs over four
months of age are kept.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building,
or contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
   LOT. A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal building or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings or
utilized for a principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such
open spaces as required by this chapter and having access on a public street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot which has at least two adjacent sides abutting on a
street; provided, that the interior angle at the intersection of such two sides
is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. Any boundary of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts a public street; where
the lots abut more than one street, the owner may select the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT, WEDGE SHAPED. A lot situated so that the front is either wider or
narrower than the rear of the lot.
   LOTS OF RECORD. A separate and distinct parcel designated in a legally
recorded subdivision plat or a legally recorded deed filed in the records of
the county.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MEAN LOT ELEVATION. The average elevation of the lot.
   MEDICAL FACILITIES.
      DENTAL OR DOCTOR’S OFFICE. The same as definition of DENTAL OR MEDICAL
CLINIC, including the various dental and medical specialties.
      DENTAL OR MEDICAL CLINIC. A building used for the examination and
treatment of the physically ill; provided, that no facilities are provided for
patients remaining overnight except under emergency conditions.
      HOSPITAL. An institution providing physical and mental health services
primarily for human inpatient medical or surgical care for the sick and
injured, and including related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient
departments, training facilities, central service facilities and staff offices
which are an integral part of the facilities.
      NURSING HOME, REST OR CONVALESCENT HOME. See definition of CONVALESCENT
HOME.
      PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER. A facility primarily utilized by a health unit for
providing public health services, including related facilities.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
transportation, after fabrication, on streets or highways on its own wheels or
on flatbeds or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling, complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or other
temporary or permanent foundations and connection to utilities.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A portion of a mobile home park allocated to the exclusive
use of the occupants of a single mobile home. A MOBILE HOME LOT must have at
least 50 feet of frontage and a minimum depth of 100 feet.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for placement of mobile homes to be occupied as
residences.
   MOTEL. An area containing one or more buildings designed or intended to be
used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient persons.
   MOTOR HOME. A vehicular unit designed to provide temporary living quarters
for recreational, camping or travel use built on or permanently attached to a
self-propelled motor vehicle chassis or on a chassis cab or van that is an
integral part of the completed vehicle. (See definition of RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE.)
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building or a structure or use of land existing at the
time of the enactment of this chapter and which does not conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   OPEN SPACE. Areas included in any side, rear or front yard, or any other
unoccupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky except for
the ordinary projection of cornices and of porches.
   PARCEL. A LOT as defined herein.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of not less than 200 square feet, either within a
structure or in the open, exclusive of driveways or access drives, for the
parking of motor vehicles.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   ROOMING HOUSE. See definition of BOARDING HOUSE or ROOMING HOUSE.
   SETBACK BUILDING LINE. A building line back of the street line.
   SIGN. Any word, lettering, part of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, designs, pictures, trade names or trademarks by
which anything is made known, such as are used to designate an individual, a
firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a service, a
commodity or product, which are visible from any public street or right-of-way
and designed to attract attention. “For Sale” and “For Rent” are SIGNS within
the meaning of this definition, but the term SIGN shall not include the flag,
pennant or insignia of any nation, state, city or other political, educational,
charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious or like campaign,
drive, movement or event used for a public purpose in the public interest.
   SIGN, DISPLAY SURFACE AREA. The net geometric area of the surface of the
sign upon, against or through which the message is displayed or illustrated,
including the outward extremities of all letters, figures, characters and
delineations; provided, that only one face of a double faced sign shall be
included in the computation of display surface area.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign designed to give forth any artificial light, or
designed to reflect light from one or more sources, natural or artificial.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign erected on the face or outside wall of a building
which projects out at any angle therefrom.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Signs of temporary nature used to advertise the premises
for sale, rent or lease.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it; or, if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET. A public right-of-way more than 30 feet in width which provides the
primary public means of access to abutting property and used primarily for
vehicular circulation.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the structural members of a building,
such as the walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location
on the ground, including signs and billboards (not including sidewalks,
driveways and similar improvement areas).
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   TRAILER. A portable or mobile unit, other than a mobile home, used or
designed to carry or transport material or animals.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular unit mounted on wheels, designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, of such size
or weight as not to require special highway movement permits when towed by a
motorized vehicle, and of a gross trailer area less than 320 square feet.
   TRUCK CAMPER. A portable unit constructed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, travel or camping use consisting of a roof, floor
and sides, designed to be loaded onto and loaded from the bed of a pickup
truck.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or
intended or for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this chapter.
      MAJOR VARIANCE. A variance major in nature such as rezoning a piece of
property from R to C.
      MINOR VARIANCE. A variance minor in nature such as a change in the
present situation, i.e., lot size restriction.
   YARD. An open space other than a court, on a lot, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of a lot from side lot
line to side lot line abutting on a street, into which a building may not
protrude.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured from side lot
line to side lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from front yard to the rear yard abutting on
the side lot line, into which no building may protrude.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-5)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.20 DUTY OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Zoning Administrator to enforce this chapter.
   (B)   If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, the Administrator shall notify in writing the
persons responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation
and ordering the action necessary to correct it, and shall take such other
action as is authorized by law to ensure compliance with or to prevent
violation of its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 10-2B-1)
§ 152.21 ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit described. The zoning clearance permit is a permit issued by
the Zoning Administrator which states that a particular development meets all
of the requirements of this chapter. It is not a building permit and does not
authorize construction. It certifies that the land or structure is in
conformance with the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit required. No building or other structure shall be erected,
constructed, enlarged, altered or repaired in such a manner as to prolong the
life of the building, nor shall the use of any land or building or other
structure be changed without a zoning clearance permit being issued authorizing
such construction, alteration, repair or use changes as being in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. No building permit shall be issued for any
construction not conforming to a valid zoning clearance permit.
   (C)   Certification. No change shall be made in the use of any land or
building or structure after the effective date hereof until a zoning clearance
permit has been obtained, certifying that all the provisions of this chapter
have been complied with.
   (D)   Application for permit; information; decision.
      (1)   An application for a zoning clearance permit shall be made to the
Zoning Administrator by the owner or proposed occupant of the building or land
to be occupied or used, and the application shall state the location and legal
description of the property and set out in detail the character and nature of
the use to be conducted thereon.
      (2)   Within three days, the Zoning Administrator shall grant or deny the
zoning clearance permit in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   (E)   Accompanying documents, information. All applications for the zoning
clearance permits shall be accompanied by a plat plan, drawn to scale on
suitable paper, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the
size and location of the building to be erected and such other information as
may be necessary to satisfy the requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Payment of fee. Zoning clearance permits shall not be issued until a
fee as set by the Town Board by motion or resolution shall have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-2B-2)
§ 152.22 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Report and recommendation to Town Board. The regulations,
restrictions, prohibitions and limitations imposed and the districts created
may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed
by ordinance, but no change shall be made until the Planning Commission, after
notice and public hearing, files with the Town Board a report and
recommendation on the proposed change.
   (B)   Application for amendment; fee.
      (1)   An owner, or his or her duly authorized agent or representative,
may make application for the amendment of the zoning restrictions applicable to
his or her property by filing with the Planning Commission a written
application in such form and content as the Planning Commission may by
resolution establish.
      (2)   An application for amendment shall be accompanied by the payment of
a fee as set by the Town Board by motion or resolution. Cost of notice and
posting shall be billed to the applicant.
   (C)   Hearing date; notice.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application, the Planning Commission shall set a
date for public hearing not less than 20 days nor more than 60 days from the
date of filing.
      (2)   Fifteen days’ notice of the public hearing shall be given by the
Planning Commission by publication in an area newspaper. Additional notice
shall be given by the posting of a sign or signs on the property.
   (D)   Actions by Commission. The Planning Commission shall take the
following actions:
      (1)   After notice and public hearing, the Planning Commission shall vote
to:
         (a)   Recommend to the Town Board that the application be approved as
submitted, or as amended, or be approved subject to modification; or
         (b)   Recommend to the Town Board that the application be denied.
      (2)   An application recommended for approval, or approval subject to
modification, shall be transmitted to the town with the report and
recommendation of the Planning Commission within 15 days from the date of the
Planning Commission action.
      (3)   An application recommended for denial shall not be considered
further, and one-half of the fee required in division (B) above shall be
refunded to the applicant unless the applicant, within 15 days from the date of
the Planning Commission action, files a written request with the Town Board for
a hearing. A fee as set by the Town Board by motion or resolution shall
accompany the request for a hearing before the Town Board if the refund
hereinabove has been granted to the applicant in appeal. Upon notice of such
request and receipt of fee, the Planning Commission shall forthwith transmit
the application and its report and recommendation to the Town Board.
   (E)   Conduct of hearing; action of Town Board.
      (1)   The Town Board shall hold a hearing on each application regularly
transmitted, or which has been transmitted pursuant to an appeal as provided
for in this section.
      (2)   The Town Board shall approve the application as submitted and
recommended by the Planning Commission, or approve the application subject to
modification, or deny the application, or return the application to the Town
Planning Commission for further study.
   (F)   Protest against amendment. If a written protest against an amendment,
change or repeal of this chapter or any part thereof is presented, duly signed
and acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more of the area of the lots
immediately abutting the territory included in such proposed change or
separated therefrom only by an alley or street, or the owners of 50% or more of
the area of the lots within a 300-foot radius of the exterior boundary of the
territory included in a proposed change; then such amendment shall not be
passed except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 10-2B-3)
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
§ 152.35 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of this chapter and the promotion of public health, safety
and general welfare of the community, the following districts are hereby
established for the town:
A-G   General Agricultural District
C-A/R Automotive Commercial and Commercial Recreation District
C-C   Convenience Commercial District
C-G   General Commercial District
I-H   Heavy Industrial District
I-L   Light Industrial District
R-G   General Residential District
R-S   Single-Family Residential District
 
(Prior Code, § 10-2C-1)
§ 152.36 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Map incorporated. The locations and boundaries of the zoning districts
are established by ordinance and delineated as shown on the map entitled
“Zoning Map of the Town of Gage, Oklahoma,” and said zoning map is hereby
incorporated as a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Maintenance of map. It is the duty of the Zoning Administrator to
maintain an up to date official “Zoning Map of the Town of Gage, Oklahoma,”
including all amendments directly adopted by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 10-2C-2)
§ 152.37 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES DESCRIBED.
   (A)   The boundaries of a zoning district extend to a centerline of abutting
streets, regardless of the legal description used in establishing such
districts.
   (B)   In the event of uncertainty in the exact boundaries of any of the
districts as shown on the “Zoning Map of the Town of Gage,” the Planning
Commission, upon written application or upon its own motion, shall recommend
the location of the boundaries to the Board of Adjustment, and the Board of
Adjustment shall make the final determination.
(Prior Code, § 10-2C-3)
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.50 GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLYING TO ALL OR SEVERAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Storage and parking trailers and commercial vehicles in residential
districts.
      (1)   General restrictions.
         (a)   No airplane, boat, house, car, mobile home, motor vehicle,
trailer or a part of such vehicle shall be parked or stored in the front yard
of any lot in a residential zone, or the side yard facing a street on a corner
or reverse corner lot in a residential zone, except:
            1.   Passenger vehicles as defined by the town traffic code,
excluding motor homes, defined in §
152.05;
            2.   Motor homes not exceeding 65 feet in length; and
            3.   Pickup trucks not used for commercial purposes.
         (b)   Motor trucks while on business calls may be parked on
permanently constructed driveways within such front or side yards if currently
licensed by the State Department of Motor Vehicles and capable of movement
under their own power or temporarily disabled for a period not to exceed 72
hours while so disabled. This division (A)(1)(b) shall not apply to vehicles
parked on publicly owned or operated property.
      (2)   Trucks. It is unlawful for any person to park any truck,
semitrailer or tractor truck having a rated capacity of 55,000 pounds’ gross
vehicle weight or more in a residential zone as designated by the zoning
ordinances and map of the town between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
except for the purposes of loading and unloading. This prohibition shall apply
not only on public streets but also on private property, driveways and parking
areas.
(Prior Code, § 10-2D-1)
   (B)   Fences and walls.
      (1)   Height and location restrictions; permits and fees. Fences and
walls located in any district shall be subject to the following height and
location restrictions.
         (a)   Fences and walls exceeding three feet in height require a fence
permit. No fence or wall exceeding three feet in height shall be erected
without first obtaining a fence permit. Every application for a fence permit
shall be on forms provided by the Town Clerk-Treasurer and shall be accompanied
by a nonrefundable fee as set by the Town Board. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue the fence permit if he or she finds that the proposed fence complies with
all the requirements of this section.
         (b)   In addition to a fence permit, fences and walls exceeding six
feet in height require a building permit. A brick wall used as a fence shall be
constructed in compliance with the town building code.
         (c)   In required front yards, or within 15 feet of any street right-
of-way, whichever is greater, the maximum height shall be three feet above the
surface of the ground.
         (d)   In rear yards within 25 feet of the rear lot line, but excluding
any portion of a lot within 15 feet of any street right-of-way, the maximum
height shall be seven feet above the surface of the ground.
         (e)   In requiring intervening interior side yards, the maximum height
shall be 76 inches above the surface of the ground.
         (f)   In the rear half of any lot, open wire fences may exceed 76
inches in height; provided, that they are not closer than 15 feet to any street
side lot line of any corner lot.
      (2)   Noncompliance; variances. All fences and walls, existing upon the
effective date of this section (January 1, 1999), which do not meet the
standards and provisions for fences and walls as provided for herein shall be
altered to comply with these provisions within three years after January 1,
1999. A variance may be granted in the manner provided by ordinance to grant a
time extension in specific instances for compliance with the provisions of this
section. Such variance shall only be granted if the applicant demonstrates
that:
         (a)   The granting of a time extension will not be detrimental to
persons or property in the neighborhood;
         (b)   The granting of a time extension is not contrary to the intent
of this section; and
         (c)   The granting of a time extension will alleviate a hardship on
the applicant.
      (3)   Conflicts; prevailing provisions. In the event any of the
provisions of §
151.10 conflict with the provisions of this section, §
151.10 shall supersede the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-2D-2)
   (C)   Buffer strips and landscaping.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to preserve property values
and to improve the living environment in the town by providing buffers. Buffers
will protect property in residential districts from visually incompatible
structures and land uses, overhead lighting, wind and dust, and increased
activity associated with commercial, industrial, institutional and other land
uses.
      (2)   Districts described. As used in this section:
         (a)   The term residential district includes the following districts:
A-G, R-S and R-G, as established in §
152.35; and
         (b)   The term nonresidential district includes the following
districts: C-C, C-A/R, C-G, I-L and I-H, as established in §
152.35.
      (3)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the Town Maintenance
Supervisor. Informal sketches may be submitted to the town for approval of
proposed buffers.
      (4)   Buffer strip required.
         (a)   A buffer strip shall be provided at each boundary where a
nonresidential district abuts a residential district, but not including
districts separated by a street or park.
         (b)   The buffer required by this section shall be put in place at or
before the time construction is completed for any nonresidential use.
         (c)   For lots with buildings in existence on January 1, 1999, the
required buffer shall be in place on or before three years after January 1,
1999.
      (5)   Lots one acre or larger. Where a nonresidential lot is one acre or
greater and shares a common lot line with an abutting lot which is in a
residential district, a buffer shall be placed on the nonresidential lot
according to one or a combination of the following methods.
         (a)   At least two rows of evergreen trees shall be planted in a
buffer strip at least 15 feet in width. Trees shall have a minimum height of
three feet when planted. The rows shall be spaced seven feet apart and centered
within the buffer strip. Tree spacing shall be eight feet on center with trees
in adjacent rows offset four feet.
         (b)   A solid visual barrier six feet in height shall be erected along
the boundary, except where a boundary separates any loading, unloading, outdoor
storage areas or other land uses which utilize structures or vehicles greater
than six feet in height within the minimum yard requirement of the lot, in
which case the solid visual barrier shall be eight feet in height. The width of
the buffer may be less than 20 feet if a solid visual barrier is used.
         (c)   Earth mounding may be used in conjunction with planting or
fencing to satisfy height requirements. All such mounding shall be covered with
planting or lawn. Slopes shall not exceed one foot vertical to two feet
horizontal, if covered with plant material, and shall not exceed one foot to
three feet horizontal, if lawn.
      (6)   Lots less than one acre. Where a lot is less than one acre and
shares common lot line with an abutting lot which is in a residential district,
the buffer strip shall be a minimum of 12 feet wide. At least two rows of
evergreen trees shall be planted. Trees shall have a minimum height of three
feet when planted. The rows shall be spaced four feet apart and centered within
the buffer strip. Tree spacing shall be eight feet on center with trees in
adjacent rows offset four feet.
      (7)   Landscape maintenance. The following landscape maintenance rules
apply.
         (a)   The property owner of the land on which the required buffer is
situated shall be responsible for maintenance of the buffer.
         (b)   Trees in the buffer shall be carefully planted and maintained.
         (c)   Evergreen trees shall be maintained so that dense branching
begins at ground level and continues to the top of each plant, except for trees
where road visibility is important.
         (d)   Unhealthy or dead plants shall be promptly replaced within 30
days, weather and season permitting, but in any event no longer than 120 days.
         (e)   Each required barrier other than planting shall be maintained in
good condition, including painting or finishing when signs of disrepair occur.
         (f)   When complying with these requirements, the property owner shall
contact the town in order to make provisions which will protect public
utilities and structures.
         (g)   No required buffer shall be placed over an underground utility
easement.
      (8)   Variances. Variances may be granted for practical difficulties and
particular hardship in connection with this section in the manner provided by
ordinance.
      (9)   Appeals. Appeals from decisions under this section may be made to
the Zoning Board of Adjustment in the manner provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-2D-3)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.51 A-G GENERAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. The A-G General Agricultural District is
established for several purposes:
      (1)   To provide for the continued use of land for predominantly
agricultural purposes;
      (2)   To preserve undeveloped areas until they can feasibly be developed
to urban standards and with adequate public safeguards of health, safety and
the like; and
      (3)   To restrict development in areas subject to severe inundation until
such time as it can be shown that these areas are no longer subject to
flooding.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Within the A-G District, the following uses are
permitted:
      (1)   General uses.
         (a)   Agriculture, as defined in this chapter;
         (b)   Churches and temples;
         (c)   Elementary schools and high schools;
         (d)   Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges, pitch and
putt courses or miniature golf courses;
         (e)   Parks and forest preserves not operated for profit;
         (f)   Single-family dwellings;
         (g)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes only and
not for dwelling purposes, nor for a period that exceeds the completion of the
construction; and
         (h)   Accessory buildings or uses incidental to the foregoing
principal uses.
      (2)   Municipal and public uses.
         (a)   Municipal or community recreation centers;
         (b)   Police or fire stations;
         (c)   Public buildings or buildings operated in the public interest by
a not for profit corporation, including art galleries, post offices, libraries
or museums;
         (d)   Public or not for profit auditoriums, stadiums, arenas, armories
or sanatoriums;
         (e)   Public or private hospitals or sanatoriums;
         (f)   Public or private schools or colleges; and
         (g)   Public utility and service uses, including electric substations;
gas regulator stations; electric, gas, telegraph, telephone and water
transmission metering and distribution equipment and structures; microwave,
television, radio relay/repeater towers, water reservoirs or pumping stations
and other similar facilities.
   (C)   Area and height regulations.
      (1)   Table of requirements.
 
Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Maximum Percent Minimum Front Side Yard Minimum Rear
Area        Frontage    Coverage        Yard Setback  Setback   Yard Setback
2.5 acres   200 feet    10%             50 feet       30 feet   50 feet
 
      (2)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings may have not less than ten
feet of side or back yard setback.
   (D)   Signs and billboards. No signs, posters, bulletin boards or other
similar displays are permitted in the A-G District except as follows:
      (1)   Bulletin boards. One bulletin board may be erected on each street
frontage of an educational, religious, institutional or similar use requiring
an announcement of its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed 12
square feet in surface area nor 15 feet in height, and illumination, if any,
shall be by constant light.
      (2)   Identification signs. One identification sign may be erected on
each street frontage of a single-family subdivision or permitted nonresidential
use. The sign shall not exceed 12 square feet in surface area nor 15 feet in
height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
      (3)   Real estate signs. A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental
or lease of the premises may be erected on each street frontage of the parcel.
The sign restrictions shall be as set out in divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 10-2E-1) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.52 R-S SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted buildings and uses. In a Single-Family Residential District,
the following buildings and uses and their accessory buildings and uses are
permitted:
      (1)   Agricultural uses of the garden type that are not intended for
commercial purposes;
      (2)   Public park or playground;
      (3)   Public schools and private schools where the curriculum is similar
in nature and preparation of course work to the public schools; and
      (4)   Single-family detached dwellings and duplexes, subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Uses permitted subject to additional requirements. The following uses
may be permitted by the Board of Adjustment after a public hearing; provided,
that they meet the requirements noted for each use in addition to applicable
area regulations:
      (1)   Accessory buildings which are not a part of a main building may
include one private garage;
      (2)   Churches: a minimum lot size of one acre, and through street
frontage;
      (3)   Golf course, private or public, or country club; provided, that the
chief activity is for recreational purposes and commercial activity is
accessory or incidental thereto;
      (4)   Home occupation; provided, that it is in keeping with the meaning
of home occupation as defined in §
152.05;
      (5)   Junior high or senior high schools;
      (6)   Library;
      (7)   Mobile home: a mobile home shall be allowed within the R-
S District, upon compliance with the following provisions:
         (a)   The proposed site shall have a minimum of 5,000 square feet in
area, with the lot at least 50 feet wide and 100 feet deep;
         (b)   The mobile home so parked on such a site shall have an enclosed
foundation and comply with all regulations as to sanitary and health
regulations;
         (c)   The mobile home shall have a minimum of 750 square feet of
living space;
         (d)   Front yards of not less than 20 feet and side and rear yards of
not less than ten feet for each location;
         (e)   The proposed site shall provide one off-street parking space for
each mobile home unit;
         (f)   The proposed site shall provide a connection to all public
utilities; and
         (g)   Any individual, partnership, corporation or association desiring
to locate a mobile home under this section shall, prior to locating the mobile
home on the site, present to the zoning administration a statement signed by
all of the property owners within a 300-foot radius of the proposed site,
wherein the owners consent to the location of the mobile home on the proposed
site, which site shall be described in the statement.
      (8)   Parking lots; provided, that they are within 200 feet of a
commercial or industrial district;
      (9)   Plant nursery; provided, that no building or structure is
maintained in connection therewith and no retailing of any material is carried
on upon the premises; and
      (10)   Temporary structures which are incidental to the construction of
the main building and will be removed when the main structure is completed.
   (C)   Area and height regulations.
 
Minimum Lot  Minimum Lot Maximum  Maximum Minimum    Minimum Side  Minimum Rear
Area         Frontage    Percent  Height  Front Yard Yard Setback  Yard Setback
                         Coverage         Setback
                                                     5 feet
6,000 square                                         interior      20% depth of
feet         50 feet     30%      35 feet 25 feet    lots, 10 feet lot
                                                     street side
                                                     of corner lot
 
   (D)   Signs and billboards. No signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards
or other similar displays are permitted in the R-S District except as follows:
      (1)   Bulletin boards.
         (a)   A temporary bulletin board or sign not to exceed 12 square feet
in area, pertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, which
board or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired or
sold.
         (b)   One bulletin board may be erected on each street frontage of an
educational, religious, institutional or similar use requiring announcement of
its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed 12 square feet in surface
area nor 15 feet in height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant
light.
      (2)   Public notices. Official public notices may be erected on affected
property.
      (3)   Nameplates. One non-illuminated nameplate not exceeding two square
feet in area and not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or
occupant or name or address of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-2E-2) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.53 R-G GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. This residential district is intended to provide
for both low and high population density. It is established as a district in
which the principal uses of the land are for multi-family dwellings and similar
high density residential development. The intent is to encourage the
development and continued use of land for multi-family dwellings and to
prohibit commercial and industrial uses or any other use which would
substantially interfere with the development or continuation of multi-family
dwellings in this district. It is further intended to discourage any use which
would generate traffic or create congestion on the neighborhood street other
than the normal traffic which serves the multi-family dwellings or similar
residential uses in this district and discourage any use which, because of its
character or size, would create additional requirements and costs for public
services which would be in excess of such requirements and costs if this
district were developed solely for multi-family or other similar residential
uses.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Within the R-G General Residential District, the
following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-S Single-Family Residential District;
      (2)   Duplex;
      (3)   Multi-family dwelling; and
      (4)   Rooming or boarding house.
   (C)   Uses permitted subject to additional requirements. The following uses
may be permitted by the Board of Adjustment after public hearing; provided,
that they meet the requirements noted for each use in addition to the
applicable area regulations:
      (1)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the uses
listed in this section when located on the same lot;
      (2)   Any uses permitted subject to additional requirements for the R-
S Single-Family Residential District;
      (3)   Childcare centers or daycare homes; provided, that they are located
on a lot not less than 10,000 square feet in area and have frontage on a
through street as shown on the zoning map;
      (4)   Community services, cultural and utility facilities; provided, that
they are located on a lot of not less than one acre and have frontage of a
through street as shown on the zoning map;
      (5)   Convalescent home, rest home, nursing home and hospitals, public or
private; provided, that they have frontage on a through street as shown on the
zoning map; and
      (6)   Mobile home parks, in compliance with division (F) below.
   (D)   Area and height regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area 6,000 square feet.
 
Minimum Lot Maximum                 Minimum Front Minimum Side Minimum Rear
Frontage    Percent  Maximum Height Yard Setback  Yard Setback Yard Setback
            Coverage
50 feet     30%      35 feet        25 feet       5 feet       20%
 
      (2)   Lot area above 10,000 square feet.
 
Minimum Lot Maximum                 Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Rear
Frontage    Percent  Maximum Height Yard Setback  Yard Setback  Yard Setback
            Coverage
                                                  1 foot for
100 feet    50%      None           35 feet       every foot of 20%
                                                  height
 
   (E)   Signs and billboards. The control of signs and billboards in the R-
G District is the same as that set forth for the R-S District, except that such
uses as may be permitted subject to additional requirements may erect one non-
illuminated nameplate not exceeding 24 square feet in area, identifying the
name and use of the premises.
   (F)   Mobile home parks. Upon compliance with the provisions as set forth
herein, a mobile home park will be allowed within the R-G District.
      (1)   Application for permit; submit plans. The applicant, upon making
application for a zoning clearance permit, must submit a detailed site plan
locating all mobile home stands, screening or fencing and plans and
specifications for the proposed park in a form suitable for making the
determinations required herein.
      (2)   Site and area specifications.
         (a)   The proposed site shall be a minimum of 300 feet wide by 100
feet deep and shall contain no more than six mobile homes within this minimum
area.
         (b)   The proposed site shall have a minimum frontage on a through
street of 200 feet.
         (c)   Each mobile home within this district mobile home park must have
a minimum of 750 square feet of living space.
         (d)   There must be at least two blocks between each mobile home park.
      (3)   Permanent or transient occupancy. The mobile home park shall
accommodate primarily permanent occupants, with no more than 40% of the mobile
home stands devoted to solely transient purposes. These solely transient stands
are to be located in one area of the park so they will in no way interfere with
the permanent residents.
      (4)   Front and side yards. Front yards of not less than 20 feet and side
and rear yards of not less than ten feet shall be provided on mobile home park
sites.
      (5)   Off-street parking. The proposed site shall provide one off-street
parking space for each mobile home stand, plus one additional off-street
parking space for each four mobile home stands.
      (6)   Connection to public utilities. The proposed site shall provide a
connection for each mobile home stand to all public utilities.
(Prior Code, § 10-2E-3) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.54 C-C CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. This commercial district is intended for
buildings of retail shops and stores and personal services that provide for the
regular needs and are for the convenience of the people residing in the
adjacent residential neighborhoods. It is intended that these establishments be
developed with adequate off-street parking space for customers and employees
and with appropriate landscaping and screening.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Within the C-C District, the following uses are
permitted:
      (1)   General uses.
         (a)   Artists supplies and hobby shop;
         (b)   Bakery shop;
         (c)   Barbershop and beauty shop;
         (d)   Bookstore;
         (e)   Clothing or wearing apparel shops;
         (f)   Florist shop;
         (g)   Gift shop;
         (h)   Jewelry shop;
         (i)   Laundry and dry cleaning pick up stations;
         (j)   Medical facility;
         (k)   Office, professional or general;
         (l)   Restaurants (not drive-in);
         (m)   Self-service laundries; and/or
         (n)   Shoe repair shop.
      (2)   Uses permitted in R-G District. Any of the uses permitted in the R-
G General Residential District subject to additional requirements as provided.
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses. Accessory buildings and uses
customarily incidental to the uses listed in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above;
provided, that there shall be no manufacturing of products other than such as
are customarily incidental to retail establishments.
      (4)   Other commercial uses. Any other commercial use deemed by the Board
of Adjustment to be of a similar nature to those listed in this section.
   (C)   Area and height regulations; parking.
      (1)   Table of requirements.
 
Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Maximum  Maximum Minimum    Minimum Side Minimum Rear
Area        Frontage    Percent  Height  Front Yard Yard Setback Yard Setback
                        Coverage         Setback
                                                    2 feet for
                                                    every 1 foot
10,000      100 square                              of building
square feet feet        40%      35 feet 50 feet    height,      10 feet
                                                    adjacent to
                                                    residential
                                                    district
 
      (2)   Off-street parking. Adequate off-street parking shall be provided
for the average customer/employee loading.
   (D)   Business signs. Business signs, poster boards, bulletin boards or
other similar displays in the C-C District shall conform to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Sign specifications and location. In the C-C District, one business
sign not exceeding 32 square feet in surface area and identifying the business
or activity conducted on their premises may be erected on each street frontage
of the parcel. Ground signs shall not exceed the height of the building in
which the principal use is located or 20 feet, whichever is lower. No business
sign shall be located within 50 feet of a residential district if visible from
such district. Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
      (2)   Real estate signs. A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental
or lease of the premises may be erected on each street frontage of the site.
The sign shall not exceed 16 feet in surface area nor 15 feet in height.
      (3)   Placement on private property; projections. All signs in the C-
C District shall be erected upon private property and shall not encroach upon
any public street or walk, except as provided by the applicable codes of the
town, and they shall not overhang at a height less than nine feet and shall not
have a maximum projection greater than 72 inches.
(Prior Code, § 10-2E-4) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.55 C-A/R AUTOMOTIVE COMMERCIAL AND COMMERCIAL RECREATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. This commercial district is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is for establishments offering
accommodations, supplies or services to motorists, and for certain specialized
uses as retail outlets, commercial amusement and service establishments which
serve the entire community but do not and should not necessarily be located in
the Central Business District or the Convenience Commercial District.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Within the C-A/R District, the following uses are
permitted: any use permitted in the C-C District; and other uses, including:
      (1)   General uses.
         (a)   Ambulance service offices or garages;
         (b)   Amusement enterprises;
         (c)   Automobile service stations;
         (d)   Billboards as permitted in division (D) below;
         (e)   Boat sales and service;
         (f)   Bowling alleys;
         (g)   Bus terminals;
         (h)   Dance halls;
         (i)   Drive-in theaters or restaurants;
         (j)   Electric transmission stations;
         (k)   Food and fuel stores;
         (l)   Funeral parlors;
         (m)   Garden stores;
         (n)   Golf course, miniature or practice range;
         (o)   Heating and plumbing sales and service;
         (p)   Hospital for small animals;
         (q)   Ice plants;
         (r)   Kennels;
         (s)   Key shops;
         (t)   Laundries;
         (u)   Motels;
         (v)   Music, radio and television shop and repair;
         (w)   New and used automobile sales and services, new and used
machinery sales and services and public garages;
         (x)   Nightclubs;
         (y)   Novelty shops;
         (z)   Pawnshops;
         (aa)   Pet shops;
         (bb)   Printing plants;
         (cc)   Public uses;
         (dd)   Recreation center, private;
         (ee)   Roller skating rinks;
         (ff)   Sign painting shops;
         (gg)   Taverns;
         (hh)   Travel trailer park and sales; and
         (ii)   Wholesale distribution center.
      (2)   Other businesses. Any other store or shop for retail trade or for
providing personal, professional or business service other than those provided
for in the C-G General Commercial District.
      (3)   Buildings and accessory uses. Buildings, structures and accessory
uses, customarily incidental to any of the uses listed in this section;
provided, that there shall be no manufacturing of products other than such as
are customarily incidental to retail establishments.
   (C)   Area and height regulations; parking.
      (1)   Table of requirements.
 
Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Maximum  Maximum Minimum    Minimum Side Minimum Rear
Area        Frontage    Percent  Height  Front Yard Yard Setback Yard Setback
                        Coverage         Setback
                                                    2 feet for
10,000      100 feet    30%      35 feet 50 feet    every 1 foot 20 feet
square feet                                         of height of
                                                    the building
 
      (2)   Off-street parking. Adequate off-street parking shall be provided
for the average customer/employee number.
   (D)   Business signs. Business signs, poster boards, bulletin boards or
other similar displays in the C-A/R District shall conform to the following
requirements.
      (1)   Sign specifications and location. In the C-A/R District, business
signs not exceeding in the aggregate one square foot of display surface area
per one linear foot of the street frontage and identifying the business or
activity conducted on their premises may be erected on each street frontage of
the parcel. Ground signs shall not exceed the height of the building in which
the principal use is located or 20 feet, whichever is lower. No business sign
shall be located within 50 feet of a residential district if visible from such
district. Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
      (2)   Real estate signs. A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental
or lease of the premises may be erected on each street frontage of the site.
The sign shall not exceed 50 feet in surface area nor 15 feet in height.
      (3)   Placement on private property; projections. All signs in the C-A/
R District shall be erected upon private property and shall not encroach upon
any public street or walk, except as provided by the applicable codes of the
town, and they shall not overhang at a height less than nine feet and shall not
have a maximum projection greater than 72 inches.
(Prior Code, § 10-2E-5) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.56 C-G GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. This commercial district is designed for the
conduct of personal and business services and the general retail trade of the
community. It is designed to accommodate a wide variety of commercial uses in
the Central Business District or areas of mixed business enterprises. It will
not normally be applied in the case of new commercial areas.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Within the C-G District, the following uses are
permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in a C-C or C-A/R District; and
      (2)   Any other retail, personal service, business service or
professional use not already mentioned, including:
         (a)   Bakery;
         (b)   Department store;
         (c)   Frozen food locker;
         (d)   Furniture repair and upholstery;
         (e)   Research laboratories; and
         (f)   Wholesale, except for outdoor storage.
   (C)   Area and height regulations. There are no area or height regulations
in the C-G District.
   (D)   Signs and billboards. All signs and billboards in the C-G District
shall conform to the requirements in §
152.55(D).
(Prior Code, § 10-2E-6) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.57 I-L LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. The purpose of the I-L Light Industrial District
is to provide a location for industries which do not by their nature create
nuisances. The intent is to preserve this land for industry in a location
beneficial to industries and to prohibit nonindustrial uses. Because of the
traffic generated and other potentially objectionable influences created in
this district, a buffer or setback area between this district and other zoning
districts, except I-H, is required.
   (B)   Standards. Any use constructed, established, altered or enlarged in
the I-L District, after the effective date hereof, shall be so operated as to
comply with the following standards.
      (1)   No building shall be used for residential purposes, except that a
watchperson may reside on the premises.
      (2)   No retail sales or services shall be permitted, except as
incidental to or accessory to a permitted use.
      (3)   No noise, either continuous or intermittent, from any operation
conducted on the premises, other than that emanating from vehicular traffic,
shall be detectable at any boundary line of the I-L District.
      (4)   No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke, gas or odorous or
articulate matter shall be emitted that is detectable beyond the lot lines of
the lot on which the use is located.
      (5)   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines of the lot
on which the use is located.
      (6)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to
avoid casting direct light upon property located in any residential district.
      (7)   The manufacture of flammable materials which produce explosive
vapors or gases is prohibited.
      (8)   No outside storage of equipment or material, except equipment in
daily use, is permitted in such a location where it can be viewed from any
public street.
      (9)   Any operation that produces intense glare or heat shall be
performed within a completely enclosed building, and exposed sources of light
shall be screened so as not to be detectable beyond the lot lines.
   (C)   Uses permitted. Within the I-L Light Industrial District, the
following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Accessory uses incidental to and on the same zoning lot as the
principal use;
      (2)   Building material sales;
      (3)   Commercial radio and television transmitting antenna towers and
other electronic equipment requiring outdoor towers, including antenna towers
for the dispatching of private messages;
      (4)   Compounding, processing and blending of chemical products, but not
including any materials which decompose by detonation;
      (5)   General and administrative offices;
      (6)   Machine shops and metal products manufacture and tool and die
shops; provided, that they do not include any of the following equipment:
         (a)   Automatic screw machines;
         (b)   Drop forges; or
         (c)   Riveting machines.
      (7)   Mail order houses;
      (8)   Manufacturing and assembling of electrical and electronic products
and equipment;
      (9)   Manufacturing and assembling (or any combination of such processes)
of products from the following, but not including as a principal operation the
processing of any raw materials:
         (a)   Cork;
         (b)   Felt;
         (c)   Fur;
         (d)   Glass;
         (e)   Leather;
         (f)   Plastic;
         (g)   Wood; and
         (h)   Other textiles.
      (10)   Printing and binding plants;
      (11)   Research laboratories;
      (12)   Warehouse and storage facilities;
      (13)   Water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs and lift
stations; and
      (14)   Any other manufacturing process or establishment, except those
permitted in I-H Heavy Industrial District.
   (D)   Area and height regulations.
 
Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Maximum  Maximum Minimum    Minimum Side Minimum Rear
Area        Frontage    Percent  Height  Front Yard Yard Setback Yard Setback
                        Coverage         Setback
None        None        40%      None    50 feet    50 feet      50 feet
 
   (E)   Signs and billboards. All signs and billboards in the I-L District
shall conform to the requirements in §
152.55(D).
(Prior Code, § 10-2E-7) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.58 I-H HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description.
      (1)   The purpose of the I-H Heavy Industrial District is to provide a
location for industries which by their very nature create nuisances. The intent
is to preserve this land especially for such industry in locations with access
to arterial streets, as well as locations generally accessible to railroad
transportation.
      (2)   Because of the nuisances or other objectionable influences that may
be created in this district, a buffer or setback strip between this district
and other zoning districts, except the I-L District, is required.
   (B)   Standards. Any use constructed, established, altered or enlarged in
the I-H District after the effective date hereof shall be so operated as to
comply with the following standards. No use already established on the
effective date hereof shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with, or
further conflict with, the applicable standards hereinafter for the I-
H District.
      (1)   No building shall be used for residential purposes, except that a
watchperson may reside on the premises.
      (2)   No retail sales or services shall be permitted except as incidental
to or accessory to a permitted use.
      (3)   No storage, manufacture or assembly of goods shall be conducted out
of a building unless the nearest point of activity is more than 100 feet from
the boundary of any zoning district.
      (4)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to
avoid casting direct light upon property located in any residential district.
      (5)   All manufacturing, fabricating, assembly, disassembly, repairing,
storing, cleaning, servicing and testing of goods, wares and merchandise shall
be carried on in such a manner as not to be injurious or offensive by reason of
the emission or creation of noise, vibration, smoke, dust or other particulate
matter, toxic or noxious matter, odors, glare, heat, fire or explosives hazard.
      (6)   No activities involving storage, utilization or manufacture of
materials or products which decompose by detonation are permitted.
   (C)   Uses permitted. Within the I-H District, any use permitted in the I-
L District also applies. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Blacksmiths, tinsmiths and sheet metal shops;
      (2)   Bottling works;
      (3)   Canning or preserving factories;
      (4)   Cold storage plants;
      (5)   Ice cream production and distribution;
      (6)   Laundry and dry cleaning plants;
      (7)   Machine shops;
      (8)   Machinery rental, sales and service; and
      (9)   Manufacturing, fabricating, assembling, repairing, storing and
cleaning, servicing or testing of any of the following materials, goods or
merchandise:
         (a)   Apparel;
         (b)   Automobile wrecking and junk yards; provided, that they are
enclosed throughout the entire perimeter by a solid fence not less than eight
feet in height;
         (c)   Beverages (nonalcoholic), processing and bottling;
         (d)   Building materials specialties;
         (e)   Bulk fuel sales and storage;
         (f)   Clothing;
         (g)   Compounding and packaging of chemicals;
         (h)   Cosmetics and toiletries;
         (i)   Dairy products;
         (j)   Drugs and pharmaceutical products;
         (k)   Electrical and acoustical products and components;
         (l)   Food products (except fish, sauerkraut, vinegar and yeast);
         (m)   Furniture;
         (n)   Glass products;
         (o)   Ice, dry and natural;
         (p)   Jewelry;
         (q)   Medical laboratory supplies, equipment and specialties;
         (r)   Metal products and utensils;
         (s)   Milk, bottling and distribution;
         (t)   Monumental stonecutting;
         (u)   Motor freight terminals;
         (v)   Musical instruments;
         (w)   Optical goods;
         (x)   Paper products, including boxes and containers;
         (y)   Pattern shops;
         (z)   Printing plants;
         (aa)   Processing of meat and vegetable products, including the
slaughter of animals;
         (bb)   Radios, phonographs, recorders and television sets and parts,
computer-related equipment;
         (cc)   Railroad yards and switching areas, including lodging and
sleeping facilities for transient railroad labor;
         (dd)   Sign painting;
         (ee)   Soldering and welding shops;
         (ff)   Spray painting and mixing;
         (gg)   Textiles;
         (hh)   Toys and children’s vehicles;
         (ii)   Trailers and carts; and
         (jj)   Wood products, including wooden boxes and containers.
   (D)   Area regulations.
      (1)   There are no requirements for minimum lot frontage in the I-
H District.
      (2)   Front, rear and side yard requirements in the I-H District are the
same as those set forth in §
152.57(D) for the I-L District.
      (3)   Buildings shall not cover more than 50% of the site on which the
use is located.
   (E)   Signs and billboards. All signs and billboards in the I-H District
shall conform to the requirements in §
152.55(D).
(Prior Code, § 10-2E-8) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.59 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Nonconforming uses generally. The lawful use of any building,
structure or land existing on the effective date hereof may be continued,
although such use does not conform with the provisions of this chapter;
provided, that the following conditions are met.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any portion of a building or structure
declared unsafe by a proper authority.
      (2)   Any building arranged, intended or designed for a nonconforming
use, the construction of which has been started on the effective date hereof,
but not completed, may be completed and put to such nonconforming use;
provided, that it is done within one year after the effective date hereof.
      (3)   Any building or structure existing as a nonconforming use on the
effective date hereof, which is destroyed by fire or the elements, may be
reconstructed and restored for such nonconforming use within one year from the
date of destruction.
      (4)   No nonconforming building, structure or use shall be changed to
another nonconforming use.
      (5)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a more restricted
use or a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less
restricted or nonconforming use.
      (6)   If any nonconforming use of a building or structure is voluntarily
discontinued for three months or more, it shall be deemed abandoned and shall
not, therefore, be returned to such nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § 10-2F-1)
   (B)   Nonconforming uses of land. Where, on the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this chapter, lawful uses of land exist that are no longer
permissible under the terms of this chapter as enacted or amended, such uses
may be continued as long as they remain otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use on the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (2)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased or
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied on the effective
date of the adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (3)   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than 30 days, and subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located.
(Prior Code, § 10-2F-2)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as provided in
§
10.99, including costs for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted
to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-2B-4)
CHAPTER 153: MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
Section
   
153.01   Short title
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Enforcement
   
153.04   Airport zones
   
153.05   Airport zone height limitations
   
153.06   Use restrictions
   
153.07   Nonconforming uses
   
153.08   Permit requirements and restrictions
   
153.09   Board of Adjustment
   
153.10   Appeals
   
153.11   Judicial review
   
153.12   Conflicting regulations; more stringent prevail
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Gage Municipal Airport
Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT APPROACH. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
§
153.05. In plan, the perimeter of the approach surface coincides with the
perimeter of the approach zone.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest point of an airport’s usable landing area
measured in feet from sea level.
   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES. The zones as set forth
in §
153.04.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A board consisting of five members appointed by the
Town Board of Trustees.
   CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20:1 for a horizontal distance of 4,000
feet.
   HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the perimeter
of the horizontal zone.
   LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to
be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds’ maximum
gross weight and jet-powered aircraft.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
   NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal
guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight in
nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in §
153.05.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or governmental entity, including a trustee, a
receiver, an assignee or a similar representative of any one of them.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway; for military runways or when the runway
has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the PRIMARY
SURFACE ends at each end of that runway. The width of the PRIMARY SURFACE is
set forth in §
153.04. The elevation of any point on the PRIMARY SURFACE is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
   STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
humans, including, but with limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at 90 degree angles to
the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven
feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES for those portions of the precision approach surfaces,
which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a
distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach
surface and at 90 degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of 12,000 pounds’ maximum gross weight and less.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2)
§ 153.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Airport Manager. It shall be the duty of the Airport Manager to
administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein.
   (B)   Applications for permits and variances.
      (1)   Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the Airport
Manager upon a form published for that purpose.
      (2)   Applications required by this chapter to be submitted to the
Airport Manager shall be promptly considered and granted or denied.
      (3)   Application for action by the Board of Adjustment shall be
forthwith transmitted by the Airport Manager.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-3)
§ 153.04 AIRPORT ZONES.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby
created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying
beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces and
conical surfaces as they apply to the Municipal Airport. Such zones are shown
on the Municipal Airport layout plan consisting of three sheets, prepared by
Poe and Associates, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and dated April 17, 1978, a copy
of which is on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer and is made a
part hereof. An area located in more than one of the following zones is
considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation.
   (B)   The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows.
      (1)   Runway larger than utility visual approach zone. The inner edge of
this runway approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and
is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
1,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (2)   Runway larger than utility with visibility minimum as low as a
three-fourths mile no precision instrument approach zone. The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000
feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 4,000 feet
at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (3)   Transitional zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath
the transitional surfaces.
      (4)   Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of 10,000 radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of each
runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs.
The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
      (5)   Conical zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-4)
§ 153.05 AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be erected,
altered or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow, in any zone
created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height limit
herein established for each of the zones in question as follows:
   (A)   Utility runway visual approach zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each
foot upward, beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface, and extending to a horizontal distance of 250 feet along the extended
runway centerline.
   (B)   Runway larger than utility visual approach zone. Slopes 20 feet
outward for each foot upward, beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface, and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline.
   (C)   Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum as low as a
three-fourths mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. Slopes 34 feet
outward for each foot upward, beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface, and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline.
   (D)   Transitional zones. Slopes seven feet outward for each foot upward,
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation which is 2,223 feet above mean sea level.
      (1)   In addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits
sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward, beginning at the sides of and
at the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending to where they
intersect the conical surface.
      (2)   Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond
the conical zone, there are established height limits sloping seven feet
outward for each foot upward, beginning at the sides of and at the same
elevation as the approach surface, and extending a horizontal distance of 5,000
feet measured at 90 degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   (E)   Horizontal zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport elevation
or at a height of 2,373 feet above mean sea level.
   (F)   Conical zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward, beginning
at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation, and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
   (G)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure or
growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-5) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 153.06 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create bird strike hazards or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with
the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-6) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 153.07 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change
or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of
the effective date hereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of
nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which has begun prior to the effective date hereof, and is
diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A)
above, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Airport Manager or
lessee to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport
the presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-7)
§ 153.08 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required; exceptions.
      (1)   Application for permit.
         (a)   For future uses, except as specifically provided in divisions
(A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b) and (A)(2)(c) below, no material change shall be made in
the use of land, no structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no
tree shall be planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall
have been applied for and granted.
         (b)   Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for
which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be
determined whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the
regulations herein prescribed.
         (c)   If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted.
         (d)   No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in accordance with
division (D) below.
      (2)   Exceptions; circumstances not requiring permit. Circumstances or
situations not requiring a permit are as follows.
         (a)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain,
land contour or topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for such zones.
         (b)   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, no
permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would
extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach zones.
         (c)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground
except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
transition zones.
         (d)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions (divisions
(A)(2)(a) through (A)(2)(c) above) shall be construed as permitting or
intending to permit any construction or alteration of any structure, or growth
of any tree in excess of any of the height limits established by this chapter,
except as set forth in division (D) below.
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this chapter or any amendments thereto, or than it is
when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all
applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Airport
Manager determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned,
or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall
be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable
height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the Board of
Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. The application for variance
shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace.
      (2)   Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a
literal application of enforcement of the regulations will result in
unnecessary hardship and, if granted, will not be contrary to the public
interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will show substantial
justice and will be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter.
      (3)   Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of
this chapter may be considered by the Board of Adjustment unless a copy of the
application has been furnished to the Airport Manager for advice as to the
aeronautical effects of the variance.
      (4)   If the Airport Manager does not respond to the application within
15 days after receipt, the Board of Adjustment may act on its own to grant or
deny said application.
   (E)   Obstruction of markings and lights.
      (1)   Any permit or variance granted may, if such action is deemed
advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and be reasonable in the
circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or
tree in question to install, operate and maintain, at the owner’s expense, such
marking and lights as may be necessary.
      (2)   If deemed proper by the Board of Adjustment, this condition may be
modified to require the owner to permit the town, at its own expense, to
install, operate and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-8)
§ 153.09 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Board created; powers. There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment
to have and exercise the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Airport Manager in the enforcement of this chapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (B)   Appointment; terms; removal.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members appointed by
the Town Board of Trustees, and each shall serve three-year staggered terms,
until a successor is duly appointed and qualified.
      (2)   Members shall be removable by the appointing authority for cause,
upon written charges, after a public hearing.
   (C)   Rules and procedures; meetings.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance, in
harmony with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board of Adjustment may
determine.
      (3)   The Chairperson, or, in the absence of the Chairperson, the Acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
      (4)   All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be public.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office
of Town Clerk-Treasurer and on due cause shown.
   (D)   Written findings of Board. The Board of Adjustment shall make written
findings of fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted
and its legal conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying
any order, requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under
the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Board determination; majority vote. The concurring vote of a majority
of the members of the Board of Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any
order, requirement, decision or determination of the Airport Manager, or decide
in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under
this chapter, or to effect variation to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-9)
§ 153.10 APPEALS.
   (A)   Right to appeal. Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by
any decision of the Airport Manager made in the administration of this chapter
may appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Time; manner of filing.
      (1)   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith transmit to the Board of
Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed was taken.
   (C)   Stay of proceedings; exception. An appeal shall stay all proceedings
in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the Airport Manager certifies
to the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it,
that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed except by the order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the Airport
Manager and on due cause shown.
   (D)   Holding of hearing. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable
time for hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in
interest and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any
party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   Board decision. The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify
the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make
such order, requirement, decision or determination as may be appropriate under
the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-10)
§ 153.11 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment may appeal to the District Court of the county.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-11)
§ 153.12 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS; MORE STRINGENT PREVAIL.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation
or requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-12)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as
provided in §
10.99, and each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-13) - Parallel References
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cites Code Section
O.S. Cites                    Code Section
10A O.S. 2-8-224              132.99
11 O.S. 1-102                 92.03,
                              92.17
11 O.S. 1-102(8)              90.34
11 O.S. 1-402                 10.19
11 O.S. 10-101 et seq.        30.04
11 O.S. 16-301 et seq.        30.04
11 O.S. 16-302                30.04
11 O.S. 22-112                92.03
11 O.S. 22-112.1              92.17
11 O.S. 49-100.1 et seq.      31.07
21 O.S. 1021                  132.28
22 O.S. 1108                  33.25
22 O.S. 1115.1 through 1115.5 33.23
27A O.S. 2-10-101 et seq.     72.01
37A O.S.                      112.04
37A O.S. 1-101 et seq.        112.09
37A O.S. 1-103                112.01
37A O.S. 2-109                112.30
37A O.S. 3-102                112.34
37A O.S. 4-104                112.02
47 O.S.                       75.01
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.         70.01,
                              70.02
47 O.S. 7-600 et seq.         70.04
47 O.S. 10-101 et seq.        70.05
47 O.S. 11-101 et seq.        70.01
47 O.S. 15-112                72.03
47 O.S. 1102                  73.20
47 O.S. 1116.2                73.20
50 O.S. 12                    90.06
50 O.S. 14                    90.06
50 O.S. 15                    90.06
50 O.S. 16                    90.07,
                              90.08
                              37.15,
51 O.S. 24A.1 et seq.         37.16,
                              37.18,
                              37.19
59 O.S. 1301 through 1340     33.25
59 O.S. 1332                  33.25
59 O.S. 1333                  33.25
59 O.S. 1335                  33.25
61 O.S. 101 et seq.           35.04
62 O.S. 517.1 et seq.         35.03
63 O.S. 1-1011                90.09
68 O.S. 205                   36.16
68 O.S. 217                   36.13
68 O.S. 220                   36.13
68 O.S. 227                   36.14
                              36.01,
                              36.03,
                              36.04,
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.          36.06,
                              36.07,
                              36.12,
                              36.15
68 O.S. 1352                  36.02
68 O.S. 1621 et seq.          133.23
68 O.S. 2601 et seq.          35.35
75 O.S. 250 et seq.           33.55
75 O.S. 309 through 317       33.55
                              
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code 2023 Code
1-4-1      10.99
1-4-2      10.99
1-4-3      10.99
1-4-4      10.99
1-4-5      10.99
1-5-1      11.01
1-5-2      30.04
1-6-1      30.01
1-6-2      30.02
1-6-3      30.03
1-7-1      31.01
1-7-2      31.02
1-7-3      31.03
1-7-4      31.04
1-7-5      31.05
1-7-6      31.06
1-7-7      31.07
1-8-1      31.20
1-8-2      31.21
1-9-1      37.15
1-9-2      37.16
1-9-3      37.17
1-9-4      37.18
1-9-5      37.19
1-9-6      37.20
1-9-7      37.21
1-9-8      37.22
1-10-1     37.01
1-11-1     33.01
1-11-2     33.02
1-11-3     33.03
1-11-4     33.50-
           33.57
1-11-5     33.15
1-11-6     33.16
1-11-7     33.17
1-11-8     33.18
1-11-9     33.19
1-11-10    33.20
1-11-11    33.21
1-11-12    33.22
1-11-13    33.23
1-11-14    33.24,
           33.99
1-11-15    33.25
1-11-16    33.26
1-11-17    33.27
1-11-18    33.28
1-11-19    33.29
1-11-20    33.30
1-11-21    33.31
1-11-22    33.32
1-11-23    33.33
1-11-24    33.34
1-11-25    33.35
1-11-26    33.36
1-11-27    33.37
2-1-1      35.01
2-1-2      35.02
2-1-3      35.03
2-1-4      35.04
2-1-5      35.05
2-1-6      35.06
2-2-1      36.01
2-2-2      36.02
2-2-3      36.03
2-2-4      36.04
2-2-5      36.05
2-2-6      36.06
2-2-7      36.07
2-2-8      36.08
2-2-9      36.09
2-2-10     36.10
2-2-11     36.11
2-2-12     36.12
2-2-13     36.13
2-2-14     36.14
2-2-15     36.15,
           36.99
2-2-16     36.16
2-2-17     36.17
2-2-18     36.18
2-3-1      35.20
2-3-2      35.21
2-4-1      35.35
2-4-2      35.36
2-4-3      35.37
2-4-4      35.38
2-4-5      35.39
3-1-1      110.01
3-1-2      110.02
3-1-3      110.03
3-1-4      110.04
3-1-5      110.05
3-1-6      110.06
3-1-7      110.07
3-1-8      110.08
3-1-9      110.09
3-2A-1     112.01
3-2A-2     112.02
3-2A-3     112.03
3-2A-4     112.04
3-2A-5     112.05
3-2A-6     112.06
3-2A-7     112.07
3-2A-8     112.08
3-2A-9     112.09
3-2A-10    112.10
3-2A-11    112.11
3-2A-12    112.12
3-2A-13    112.13
3-2B-1     112.25
3-2B-2     112.26
3-2B-3     112.27
3-2B-4     112.28
3-2B-5     112.29
3-2B-6     112.30,
           112.99
3-2B-7     112.31
3-2B-8     112.32
3-2B-9     112.33
3-2B-10    112.34
3-3-1      111.01
3-3-2      111.02
3-3-3      111.03
3-3-4      111.04
3-3-5      111.05
3-3-6      111.06
3-3-7      111.07
3-3-8      111.08
3-3-9      111.09
3-3-10     111.10
3-3-11     111.11
3-3-12     111.12
3-3-13     111.99
4-1-1      90.01
4-1-2      90.02
4-1-3      90.03
4-1-4      90.04
4-1-5      90.05
4-1-6      90.06
4-1-7      90.07
4-1-8      90.08
4-1-9      90.09
4-1-10     90.10
4-1-11     90.11
4-1-12     90.12
4-1-13     90.13
4-1-14     90.14
4-1-15     90.15
4-1-16     90.16
4-1-17     90.17
4-1-18     90.18
4-1-19     90.99
4-2-1      91.01
4-2-2      91.02
4-2-3      91.03
4-2-4      91.04
4-2-5      91.05
4-2-6      91.06
4-2-7      91.07
4-2-8      91.08
4-2-9      91.09
4-2-10     91.10
4-2-11     91.11
4-2-12     91.12
4-2-13     91.99
4-3-1      90.30
4-3-2      90.31
4-3-3      90.32
4-3-4      90.33
4-3-5      90.34
4-4A-1     92.01
4-4A-2     92.02
4-4A-3     92.03
4-4A-4     92.04
4-4A-5     92.99
4-4B-1     92.15
4-4B-2     92.16
4-4B-3     92.17
4-5-1      92.30
4-5-2      92.31
4-5-3      92.32
4-5-4      92.33
4-5-4      92.99
4-5-5      92.34
4-5-6      92.35
4-5-7      92.36
4-5-8      92.37
4-5-9      92.38
4-5-10     92.99
5-1-1      34.01
5-1-2      34.02
5-1-3      34.03
5-1-4      34.04
5-2-1      34.15
5-2-2      34.16
5-2-3      34.17
5-2-4      34.18
5-2-5      34.19
5-2-6      34.20
5-2-7      34.21
5-2-8      34.22
5-2-9      34.23
5-2-10     34.24
5-2-11     34.25
5-2-12     34.26
5-2-13     34.27
5-2-14     34.28
5-3-1      34.40
5-3-2      34.41
5-3-3      34.42
5-3-4      34.44
5-4-1      130.01
5-4-2      130.02
5-4-3      130.03
5-4-4      130.04
5-4-5      130.05
5-4-6      130.06
5-4-7      130.07
5-4-8      130.08
5-4-9      130.09
5-4-10     130.10
5-4-11     130.11
5-4A-1     131.01
5-4A-2     131.02
5-4A-3     132.01
5-4A-4     132.02
5-4A-5     132.03
5-4A-6     132.04
5-4A-7     132.20
5-4A-8     132.21
5-4A-9     132.22
5-4A-10    132.23
5-4A-11    132.24
5-4A-12    132.25
5-4A-13    132.26,
           132.99
5-4A-14    132.27
5-4A-15    132.28
5-4A-16    132.29
5-4A-17    132.30
5-4A-18    132.31
5-4A-19    132.32
5-4B-1     133.01
5-4B-2     133.02
5-4B-3     133.03
5-4B-4     133.04
5-4B-5     133.05
5-4B-6     133.06
5-4B-7     133.07
5-4B-8     133.08
5-4B-9     133.09
5-4B-10    133.10
5-4B-11    133.11
5-4B-12    133.12
5-4B-13    133.16
5-4B-14    133.17,
           133.99
5-4B-15    133.18
5-4B-16    133.19
5-4B-17    133.21
5-4B-18    133.22
5-4B-19    133.23
5-4B-20    133.24
5-4B-21    133.25
5-4B-22    133.26
5-4B-23    133.27
5-4B-24    133.28,
           133.99
5-4C-1     134.01
5-4C-2     134.02
5-4C-3     134.03
5-4C-4     134.04
5-4C-5     134.05
5-4C-6     134.06
5-4C-7     134.07
5-4C-8     134.08
5-4C-9     134.09
5-4C-10    134.10
5-4C-11    134.11
5-4C-12    134.12
5-4C-13    134.13
5-4C-14    134.14
5-4C-15    134.15
5-5-1      132.06
5-5-2      132.33
5-5-3      132.34,
           132.99
5-5-4      132.35,
           132.99
5-6-1      93.01
5-6-2      93.02
5-6-3      93.03
5-6-4      93.04
5-6-5      93.05
5-6-6      93.06
5-6-7      93.07
5-6-8      93.08
5-6-9      93.09
5-6-10     93.10
5-6-11     93.11
5-6-12     93.12
5-6-13     93.13
5-6-14     93.14
5-6-15     93.15
5-6-16     93.16
5-6-17     93.17
5-6-18     93.18
5-6-19     93.99
5-7-1      94.01
5-7-2      94.02
5-7-3      94.03
5-7-4      94.04
5-7-5      94.05
5-7-6      94.06
5-7-7      94.07
5-7-8      94.08
5-7-9      94.09
5-7-10     94.10,
           94.99
5-7-11     94.11,
           94.99
5-7-12     94.12
5-7-13     94.13
5-7-14     94.14
6-1-1      70.01
6-1-2      70.02
6-1-3      70.03
6-1-4      70.04
6-1-5      70.05
6-1-6      70.06
6-1-7      70.07
6-1-8      70.08
6-1-9      70.09
6-1-10     70.10
6-1-11     70.11
6-1-12     70.12
6-1-13     70.13
6-1-14     70.14
6-1-15     70.15
6-1-16     70.16
6-1-17     70.17
6-1-18     70.18
6-1-19     70.19,
           70.99
6-1-20     70.20,
           70.99
6-1-21     70.99
6-2-1      71.01
6-2-2      71.02
6-2-3      71.03
6-2-4      71.04
6-2-5      71.05
6-2-6      71.06
6-2-7      71.07
6-2-8      71.08
6-2-9      71.09
6-2-10     71.10
6-2-11     71.11
6-2-12     71.12
6-2-13     71.13
6-3-1      72.01
6-3-2      72.02
6-3-3      72.03,
           72.99
6-3-4      72.04
6-4-1      74.01
6-4-2      74.02
6-4-3      74.03
6-4-4      74.04
6-4-5      74.05
6-4-6      74.06
6-4-7      74.07
6-4-8      74.08
6-4-9      74.09
6-4-10     74.10
6-4-11     74.11
6-5-1      75.01
6-5-2      75.02
6-5-3      75.03
6-5-4      75.04
6-5-5      75.05
6-5-6      75.06
6-5-7      75.07
6-5-8      75.08
6-6-1      73.01
6-6-2      73.02
6-6-3      73.03
6-6-4      73.04
6-6-5      73.05
6-6-6      73.06
6-6-7      73.07
6-6-8      73.08
6-7-1      73.20
6-7-2      73.21
6-7-3      73.22,
           73.99
6-7-4      73.23
6-7-5      73.99
6-8-1      70.35
6-8-2      70.36
6-8-3      70.37
6-8-4      70.38
6-8-5      70.39
6-8-6      70.40
6-8-7      70.41
6-8-8      70.42
6-8-9      70.43
6-8-10     70.44
6-8-11     70.45
6-8-12     70.46
6-8-13     70.47
6-8-14     70.48
6-8-15     70.49
7-1-1      151.01
7-1-2      151.02
7-1-3      151.03
7-1-4      151.04
7-1-5      151.05
7-1-6      151.06
7-1-7      151.07
7-1-8      151.08
7-1-9      151.09
7-1-10     151.10
7-1-11     151.11
7-1-12     151.99
7-2-1      97.01
7-2-2      97.02
7-2-3      97.03
7-2-4      97.04
7-2-5      97.05
7-2-6      97.06
7-2-7      97.07
7-3-1      96.01
7-3-2      96.02
7-3-3      96.03
7-3-4      96.04
7-3-5      96.05
7-3-6      96.06
7-3-7      96.07
7-3-8      96.08
7-3-9      96.09
7-3-10     96.10
7-3-11     96.11
7-3-12     96.99
7-4-1      95.01
7-4-2      95.02,
           95.99
7-4-3      95.03
7-4-4      95.99
7-5-1      132.05
7-5-2      132.05
7-5-3      132.05
7-5-4      132.05
7-5-5      132.05
7-5-6      132.05
8-1-1      50.01,
           50.99
8-2-1      52.01
8-2-2      52.02,
           52.99
8-3-1      53.01
8-3-2      53.02,
           53.99
8-4-1      51.01
8-4-2      51.02
8-4-3      51.03
8-4-4      51.04
8-4-5      51.05
8-4-6      51.99
9-1-1      150.015,
           150.999
9-1-2      150.016
9-1-3      150.017
9-2-1      150.030,
           150.999
9-2-2      150.031
9-2-3      150.032
9-3-1      150.045,
           150.999
9-3-2      150.046
9-4-1      150.060,
           150.999
9-4-2      150.061
9-4-3      150.062
9-5-1      150.075,
           150.999
9-5-2      150.076
9-5-3      150.077
9-5-4      150.078
9-6-1      150.001
9-6-2      150.001
9-6-3      150.001
9-7-1      150.002
9-7-2      150.002
10-1A-1    32.01
10-1A-2    32.02
10-1A-3    32.03
10-1A-4    32.04
10-1A-5    32.05
10-1A-6    32.06
10-1A-7    32.07
10-1B-1    32.20
10-1B-2    32.21
10-1B-3    32.22
10-2A-1    152.01
10-2A-2    152.02
10-2A-3    152.03
10-2A-4    152.04
10-2A-5    152.05
10-2B-1    152.20
10-2B-2    152.21
10-2B-3    152.22
10-2B-4    152.99
10-2C-1    152.35
10-2C-2    152.36
10-2C-3    152.37
10-2D-1    152.50
10-2D-2    152.50
10-2D-3    152.50
10-2E-1    152.51
10-2E-2    152.52
10-2E-3    152.53
10-2E-4    152.54
10-2E-5    152.55
10-2E-6    152.56
10-2E-7    152.57
10-2E-8    152.58
10-2F-1    152.59
10-2F-2    152.59
10-3-1     153.01
10-3-2     153.02
10-3-3     153.03
10-3-4     153.04
10-3-5     153.05
10-3-6     153.06
10-3-7     153.07
10-3-8     153.08
10-3-9     153.09
10-3-10    153.10
10-3-11    153.11
10-3-12    153.12
           
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
168-A    4-24-2000   95.02,
                     95.99
168      8-7-2000    132.06
169      8-28-2000   95.02,
                     95.99
                     96.01-
170      4-30-2001   96.11,
                     96.99
171      6-26-2001   75.01-
                     75.07
                     91.01-
173      8-25-2003   91.12,
                     91.99
177      6-30-2008   132.06
178      4-27-2009   37.01
                     93.01-
-        2- -2011    93.18,
                     93.99
181      5-26-2011   31.06
                     92.30-
182      6-25-2012   92.38,
                     92.99
                     150.015,
                     150.016,
                     150.030,
                     150.031,
183      3-5-2013    150.045,
                     150.060,
                     150.061,
                     150.075,
                     150.076,
                     150.999
                     73.20-
184      11-25-2013  73.23,
                     73.99
185      3-31-2014   31.20
186      8-25-2014   30.04,
                     31.20
187      11-27-2014  30.04
189      9-28-2015   34.21
192      12-14-2020  30.03
193      2-23-2021   97.04,
                     97.07
                     96.02-
195      2-10-2022   96.08,
                     96.11
197      3-10-2022   31.06
                    
 
