CITY CODE
OF
GLENPOOL, OKLAHOMA
2013
Code current through:
Ord. 826, passed 4-7-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Glenpool, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 826, passed April 7, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 671
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A COMPILATION AND CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF
GLENPOOL, OKLAHOMA, TO BE KNOWN AS THE 2013 GLENPOOL CITY CODE, INCLUDING
ORDINANCES DEFINING PUBLIC OFFENSES AND PRESCRIBING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION
THEREOF; REPEALING PREVIOUS CODIFICATIONS AND ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT THEREWITH
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY EXCEPTED FROM REPEAL; PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE
2013 GLENPOOL CITY CODE; SAVING ALL PENDING PROCEEDINGS AND EXISTING RIGHTS AND
REMEDIES; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Glenpool, Oklahoma, as
follows:
Section 1.   Adoption Of The 2013 Glenpool City Code.
   From and after the date of passage of this ordinance as provided and to the
extent qualified by section 10 hereof, the city code of the city of Glenpool,
Oklahoma, as compiled and codified under the authority of the city council (the
city of Glenpool's governing body) and prepared pursuant to a certain
codification services contract with Sterling Codifiers, Inc., dated as of
December 12, 2009, containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general,
permanent and continuing nature, together with such subsequent changes and
amendments as may be made to said ordinances under the direction of the city
council, is hereby approved, adopted and ordained to be the code of ordinances
pertinent to all subjects and for all purposes set forth there in and shall be
accepted in all courts and for all purposes without question as the official
code and law of the city as duly enacted by the city council (the "2013
Glenpool city code"). The 2013 Glenpool city code, as hereby adopted, consists
of titles 1 - 12, inclusive, and all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature duly adopted up to and including ordinance no. 666, enacted December 3,
2012, and shall supersede all general and permanent ordinances of the city as
have been or shall be adopted on or before September 1, 2013, except as
otherwise provided herein. To the extent of any conflict between provisions of
any ordinance adopted after ordinance no. 666, enacted December 3, 2012, and
provisions of this 2013 Glenpool city code, the provisions of such ordinance(s)
as may have been adopted during the interim between December 3, 2012, and
September 1, 2013, shall control and shall be deemed to amend the 2013 Glenpool
city code with respect to any such conflicting provisions.
Section 2.   Supplemental And Amending Ordinances.
   Pursuant to title 11 Oklahoma Statutes § 14-108(A), there is hereby adopted,
as a method of perpetual codification, the loose-leaf type of binding together
with the continuous supplementing service provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and permanent nature
supplementing, amending, altering, adding or deleting any provisions of the
2013 Glenpool city code, when such supplements, amendments, alterations,
additions or deletions have been enacted after September 1, 2013, in such form
as to indicate the intention of the city council to make the same a part of the
2013 Glenpool city code, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the 2013
Glenpool city code, shall be identified by Sterling Codifiers with the proper
references and shall be inserted in the proper place in all designated official
copies; provided further that all ordinances, expressly including those of a
penal nature, shall be published and shall otherwise conform to the public
notification and filing requirements set forth herein for the codification of
the 2013 Glenpool city code as biennial supplements, thereby satisfying both
the decennial recodification and biennial supplementation requirements title 11
Oklahoma Statutes § 14-109.
Section 3.   Exceptions.
   No ordinances enacted by the city council after ordinance no. 666, which was
enacted on December 3, 2012, are included in the 2013 Glenpool city code as of
the effective date of this ordinance no. 671. Notwithstanding such omission,
all such ordinances shall continue in full force and effect from and after the
date of adoption and until repealed or amended.
Section 4.   Ordinances Of General Nature In Continuance Of Previously Adopted
Ordinances; Ordinances Of Special Nature Survive Adoption Of 2013 Glenpool City
Code.
   All ordinances of a general, permanent and continuing nature affecting the
public at-large of the city of Glenpool that are included in the 2013 Glenpool
city code shall be considered as continuations of any corresponding previously
adopted ordinance provisions and the fact that some provisions have been
deliberately eliminated by the city council from the 2013 Glenpool city code as
hereby adopted shall not cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of those ordinances that are included in the 2013 Glenpool city code. All
ordinances of a special nature, to include without limitation but by way of
example tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, rights-of-way, budget ordinances,
rezoning ordinances, franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances,
are expressly excluded from the 2013 Glenpool city code but, regardless and
independent of such exclusion, shall continue in full force and effect unless
specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the 2013 Glenpool city code
or by subsequent special ordinance. Such ordinances shall not be included in
the official 2013 Glenpool city code.
Section 5.   Repeal.
   All ordinances of a general, permanent and continuing nature adopted on
final passage by the city council on or before September 1, 2013, but not
included in the 2013 Glenpool city code or expressly recognized and continued
in force by reference in section 1 of this ordinance, are hereby repealed and
shall be of no force or effect unless duly adopted upon reconsideration of all
or any part by the city council.
Section 6.   Unlawful Alteration.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend
by additions or deletions, any part or portion of the 2013 Glenpool city code,
or to insert or delete any pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper in
any way with any ordinance therein in such a manner as would cause the law of
the city to be altered or misrepresented thereby.
Section 7.   Directions To City Clerk And City Attorney.
   The city clerk and the city attorney are directed, upon passage of this
ordinance, to take all such other actions as may be necessary to comply with
the provisions of title 11 Oklahoma Statutes, article XIV, concerning the
codification and publication of city ordinances, to include without limitation
publication of the title and a summary of this ordinance and the 2013 Glenpool
city code adopted hereby and notification of the public by resolution of such
publication. One "master volume" and, as required by title 11 Oklahoma Statutes
§ 14-108(B), a minimum of three designated official copies shall at all times
be maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for public use, inspection and examination at any and all times that
said office is regularly open. In the event of inadvertent failure to update
any other designated official copy of the 2013 Glenpool city code, the master
volume maintained in the office of the city clerk shall be deemed as
authoritative. As also required by title 11 Oklahoma Statutes § 14-108(B), the
city clerk shall keep on hand, or make upon request, copies of the 2013
Glenpool city code for distribution or sale at a reasonable price, as
determined by the city manager or her/his designee. As required by title 11
Oklahoma Statutes §§ 14-107(A), 14-108(C) and 14-110, the city clerk and city
attorney shall ensure the adoption of resolution no. 13-08-01 in the form
attached hereto and incorporated herein as "exhibit A" notifying the public of
publication of the 2013 Glenpool city code. As required by title 11 Oklahoma
Statutes § 14-110, the city clerk and city attorney shall further ensure that a
copy of such resolution shall be filed in the office of the Tulsa County court
clerk, and require a receipt in the form attached to resolution no. 13-08-01 to
include notation of book and page at which such resolution is recorded, and
that a complete volume of the 2013 Glenpool city code shall be deposited in the
Tulsa County law library. A copy of the 2013 Glenpool city code shall also be
uploaded and maintained in an on-line version, provided that any inadvertent
failure to maintain and post any amendments, supplements, additions or
deletions thereto shall not alter the full force and effect of the same. As
required by title 11 Oklahoma Statutes §§ 14-109 and 14-110, the city clerk and
city attorney shall further ensure that biennial supplements of ordinances
adopted subsequent to ordinance no. 666, enacted on December 3, 2012, are
published, that notification of publication is provided by resolution, that a
copy of each such supplement is delivered to the Tulsa County law library and
that a copy of each such resolution is filed with the Tulsa County clerk, all
as required for codification of the 2013 Glenpool city code.
Section 8.   Summary Of Contents And Notice Of Publication.
   As provided by title 11 Oklahoma Statutes §§ 14-106, 14-107(A) and 14-108
(C), the contents of this ordinance no. 671 and of the 2013 Glenpool city code
are summarized in "exhibit B" to this ordinance no. 671, are incorporated
herein by reference and shall be published within fifteen days of adoption of
this ordinance no. 671. Notice of the publication of the 2013 Glenpool city
code shall be in the manner provided for publication by title and summary of
compilations of codes and ordinances in title 11 Oklahoma Statutes § 14-107(A),
and as provided by resolution no. 13-08-01 referenced in section 7 of this
ordinance no. 671 in the form attached hereto and incorporated herein as
"exhibit A."
Section 9.   Savings Clause.
   Neither the repeal of any prior ordinances nor any provisions contained in
this ordinance shall be deemed or construed so as to impair, modify, alter,
limit or otherwise affect any rights, actions, claims or suits, whether now
pending in any court or not, that are now existing or which may arise or come
into existence before the effective date of the 2013 Glenpool city code.
Section 10.   Severability.
   If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance or any part
hereof is for any reason found to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall be of no effect on the validity of the
remainder of this ordinance nor any part hereof.
Section 11.   Effective Date.
   This 2013 Glenpool city code shall be deemed to be in effect and in full
force and operation immediately as of 12:00:01 a.m. on Sunday, September 1,
2013, provided that ordinances enacted subsequently to ordinance no. 666,
adopted December 3, 2012, shall be deemed effective on the dates provided in
such ordinances.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 5th day of August 2013.
   /s/            
Momodou Ceesay, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
   [Seal]
 
   /s/            
Susan White, City Clerk
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
   /s/            
Lowell Peterson, City Attorney
 
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT or ABSTAIN:
EMERGENCY CLAUSE
WHEREAS, an emergency is declared to exist for the preservation of the public
peace, health, and safety of the city of Glenpool and the inhabitants thereof,
and more particularly to provide for the orderly continuation of the lawful and
necessary functions, operations and government of the city of Glenpool, by
reason whereof ordinance no. 671 shall take effect and be in full force
immediately from and after its passage and approval, as provided by law.
PASSED and this emergency clause ruled upon separately and approved, by
unanimous vote of all members of the city council, this 5th day of August 2013.
 
   /s/            
Momodou Ceesay, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
   /s/                               [Seal]
Susan White, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
   /s/            
Lowell Peterson, City Attorney
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT or ABSTAIN:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
GLENPOOL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance Of Code
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory Of City
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Glenpool. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the GLENPOOL CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. (2013 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE OF CODE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2013 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2013 Code)
1-1-4: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF CITY:
   A.   Provisions Extended: All ordinances of the city now in effect within
the city are hereby extended to all real property belonging to or under the
control of the city outside the corporate limits of the city, and shall be in
full effect therein insofar as they are applicable. All ordinances of the city
which shall go into effect in the future shall also apply to and be in full
effect within the boundaries of all outlying real property insofar as they may
be applicable.
   B.   Word Interpretation: Any words in any ordinance indicating that the
effect of an ordinance provision is limited to the corporate limits of the city
shall be deemed to mean and include also the outlying real property belonging
to or under the control of the city, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise. (2002 Code § 1.04.060)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this title and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this title. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Certain Ordinances Not Affected By Code
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Effect Of Repeal; Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE:
Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be construed to
repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following, and all such
ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the
same extent as if set out at length herein:
   A.   Any ordinance promising, obligating or guaranteeing the payment of
money for or to the city, authorizing the issuance of any municipal bonds or
any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
   B.   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for the levy of
taxes or for an annual budget.
   C.   Any ordinance creating specific sewer and paving districts and other
local improvement districts or otherwise relating to specific local
improvements and special assessments therefor.
   D.   Any ordinances calling or otherwise relating to specific elections.
   E.   Any ordinance annexing territory to the city or excluding territory as
a part of the city.
   F.   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right.
   G.   Any ordinance accepting the beneficial interest in any trust created by
a trust indenture.
   H.   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument.
   I.   Any temporary or special ordinance. (2002 Code § 1.04.080)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code, except as this code may
contain provisions for such matters, in which case, this code shall be
considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only. (2013 Code)
1-2-3: EFFECT OF REPEAL; COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Reviving Prior Ordinance: The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive
any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took
effect.
   B.   Offenses: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   C.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   D.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2013 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   F.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   G.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Glenpool".
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present. (2013 Code)
   J.   Gender: Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the city include the feminine and neuter unless a contrary
intention plainly appears. (2002 Code § 1.04.010)
   K.   Number: Words used in the singular number in this code or in other
ordinances of the city include the plural, and the plural the singular, except
where a contrary intention plainly appears. (2002 Code § 1.04.020)
   L.   Statutory References: Reference to the statutes of the state of
Oklahoma means the statutes as they now are or as they may be amended to be.
(2002 Code § 1.04.050; amd. 2013 Code)
   M.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2013 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Glenpool, county of Tulsa, state of Oklahoma.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of
Glenpool.
CODE: The city code of the city of Glenpool.
COUNTY: The county of Tulsa, state of Oklahoma.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: The unlawful doing of an act, or omitting to perform a duty, which
act or omission disrupts the welfare of the city. The term is further defined
in section
6-5-2 of this code.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates,
governmental agencies, and other legal entities, except when a contrary
intention plainly appears.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2002 Code § 1.04.030; amd. 2013 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the sections and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2013
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Municipal Court Costs And Fees
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-5: Civil Relief For Violations
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   The maximum penalty, including fines, deferral fees in lieu of fines,
incarceration, community service, loss of license or privilege, orders of
abatement and costs of any court or administrative action, for the
nonperformance of acts required or the committing of acts prohibited by any
provision of this code may be as much as, but shall not exceed, the maximum
penalty established by state statute for the same offense. Without limitation,
administrative penalties for offenses with respect to the violation of specific
provisions of the zoning regulations, subdivision regulations, building
regulations, public nuisance regulations, animal regulations, health and safety
regulations, traffic regulations, offenses under title 6 of this code, or other
regulations and ordinances shall be as stated therein, respectively, or as
prescribed by statute; provided, that such administrative penalties may be
enforced judicially by the municipal court. (Ord. 642, 1-3-2011; amd. 2013
Code)
   B.   All violations of this code, including the enforcement of
administrative penalties as referenced in subsection A of this section, are
declared to be misdemeanors and are classified as either a class A offense or a
class B offense. A person convicted of a class A offense shall be punishable by
a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), excluding costs and fees,
and no incarceration. A person convicted of a class B offense shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), plus costs
and fees, or incarceration in the city jail not exceeding ten (10) days, or
incarceration in the Tulsa County Jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by both
such fine and incarceration. (Ord. 660, 7-16-2012; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   The maximum fine or deferral fee in lieu of a fine for vehicular
offenses relating to speeding shall not exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00);
provided, that speeding in excess of thirty five (35) miles per hour may, in
the discretion of the arresting officer, be deemed reckless and subject to a
fine or deferral fee up to, but not exceeding, five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for the first offense, and up to, but not exceeding, one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for a second or subsequent offense. No fine or deferral fee in
connection with a parking violation shall exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
The maximum fine or deferral fee in lieu of a fine for alcohol related or drug
related vehicular offenses shall not exceed the lesser of eight hundred dollars
($800.00) or the statutory maximum, not including all applicable costs and
fees. For all other offenses, the maximum fine or deferral fee in lieu of a
fine that may be imposed shall be as set forth in subsection B of this section,
to the fullest extent allowed by statute.
   D.   A maximum fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), plus costs as
prescribed in this code, or incarceration not to exceed ninety (90) days, or
both such fine and incarceration, may be imposed for the violation of municipal
ordinances regulating the pretreatment of wastewater and regulating stormwater
discharges, as fixed by statute.
   E.   If any fine in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or
incarceration, or both such fine and incarceration, is available for any
offense, the person charged shall have the right to a jury trial, which right
may be waived only by such person charged. If trial by jury is waived, trial
shall be to the court and an election waiving jury trial may be reversed by the
defendant at any time prior to the date set for trial by the court. (Ord. 642,
1-3-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
1-4-2: MUNICIPAL COURT COSTS AND FEES 1 :
Description Of Charge Amount Statutory Authority Comments
Description Of Amount     Statutory    Comments
Charge                    Authority
Base court                11 OS § 27-
cost for court $ 30.00    126          Goes to city
not of record
Automated
fingerprint               20 OS §
identification 5.00       1313.3       State gets $4.50; city gets $0.50
system (AFIS)
fee
Forensic fee   5.00       20 OS §     State gets $4.75; city gets $0.25 (5%)
                          1313.4
CLEET fee      9.00       20 OS §     Goes to state and is reported per § 1313.2
                          1313.2.B
OSBI lab fee   150.00     20 OS §     Goes to state
                          1313.2
Bureau of                 20 OS §
narcotics drug 5.00       1313.2       For marijuana and drug paraphernalia, goes to state
education fund
Alcohol/drug              11 OS § 14- In addition to fine/deferral fee of $750.00 for $800.00 maximum under § 14-
enforcement    50.00      111.B.1      111.C, goes to city
fee
               $25.00, is
Alcohol/drug   suggested  47 OS §     Allows city to collect actual costs of blood, breath, saliva and/or urine
testing fee    as a       752.G        testing from the defendant if convicted, but not otherwise. If the defendant
               standard                requests testing by independent lab, that cost may also be charged
               charge
Failure to use Fine is
child          $50.00;    47 OS § 11- Fine suspended and costs reduced to $15.00 for first offense if defendant
restraint      court      1112         offers proof of having acquired a CRS
system         costs =
               $30.00
               $0.08 of
City retainage every      11 OS § 14- This $0.08 is deducted from every fee or cost collected by our court and
for            penalty    111.1.A      remitted to the state, not $0.08 per dollar
administration assessment
               or fee
Recover costs  Actual                  Assessment for resulting costs of dispatching of emergency personnel/
of emergency   costs      63 OS § 2819equipment in response to fraudulent 911 call
run
 
(2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-11-19 of this title.
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: Unless expressly provided otherwise, the
penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of this
code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit or other
administrative penalty shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to
bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2013 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2013
Code)
1-4-5: CIVIL RELIEF FOR VIOLATIONS:
No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this code or other ordinance of the city
shall interfere with the right of the city to also apply to the proper courts
of the state for a mandamus, injunction or other appropriate action against a
person who violates or is about to violate any provision of this code or other
ordinance of the city. (2002 Code § 1.04.090)
CHAPTER 5
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Council-Manager Form Of Government
1-5-2: City Departments
1-5-1: COUNCIL-MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The city is under the statutory council-manager form of government and shall
have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and immunities
granted, or which may be granted, by state statute to cities under the
statutory council-manager form of government. Such powers, functions, rights,
privileges, franchises and immunities shall be exercised by the city as
provided by law, or if the manner is not therein prescribed, then in such
manner as the city council may prescribe. (2002 Code § 2.04.010; amd. 2013
Code)
1-5-2: CITY DEPARTMENTS:
There shall be the following departments in the city: police department, fire
department, department of law headed by the city attorney, city clerk
department, finance department, community development department, community
relations department, human resources department, public works department and
such other administrative departments, offices and agencies as the city council
may establish. (2002 Code § 2.04.020; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY WARDS AND ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Number Of Wards; Changes
1-6-2: Election And Terms Of Council Members
1-6-3: Ward Boundaries Established
1-6-4: Modification Of Ward Boundaries
1-6-1: NUMBER OF WARDS; CHANGES:
The city is divided into four (4) wards. When a change in the number of wards
is made, the change shall go into effect for the next general election. If the
number of wards is increased from four (4) to six (6), the council member from
ward 5 shall be elected for a term to coincide with the terms of the council
members from wards 1 and 2, and the council member from ward 6 shall be elected
for a term to coincide with the terms of the council members from wards 3 and
4. (2002 Code § 1.08.010; amd. 2013 Code)
1-6-2: ELECTION AND TERMS OF COUNCIL MEMBERS:
   A.   At the first election held by the city, the council member from ward 1
and the council member from ward 2 shall be elected for terms of four (4)
years; the council member from ward 3, the council member from ward 4 and
council member at large shall be elected for terms of two (2) years. Every two
(2) years thereafter, the successors of those whose terms are expiring shall be
elected for overlapping terms of four (4) years, and shall serve until their
respective successors have been elected and qualify. (2002 Code § 1.08.010;
amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   A change in the number of wards or in the boundaries of wards shall not
affect the term for which a council member has been elected; and a council
member from a ward of a certain number before the change shall continue to be
the council member from the ward of that number after the change until his or
her term expires, although, in fact, he or she may no longer reside in the ward
of that number as newly constituted. (2002 Code § 1.08.010)
1-6-3: WARD BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED:
The four (4) wards constituting the city of Glenpool shall consist of those
boundaries delineated and numbered one (1) through four (4) on the “Glenpool
Council District Boundaries Plan 1", as adopted by the city council meeting in
regular session on September 19, 2022, following public hearing on plans 1 and
2 on September 19, 2022, and as the same may be from time to time amended by
action of the city council. (2013 Code) (2013 Code; amd. Ord. 810, 9-19-2022)
1-6-4: MODIFICATION OF WARD BOUNDARIES:
Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 20-101, the ward boundaries shall be
modified if necessary to reflect population variations between such boundaries
as soon as practical after the results of each federal decennial census are
known. (2002 Code § 1.08.020)
CHAPTER 7
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Number Of Council Members; Qualifications; Term
1-7-2: Mayor And Vice Mayor
1-7-3: Compensation
1-7-4: Council Powers
1-7-5: Limitation Of Council Authority To Act Through City Manager
1-7-6: Meetings
1-7-7: Vacancies In Office
1-7-8: Authority To Secure Services
1-7-1: NUMBER OF COUNCIL MEMBERS; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM:
The city council shall be composed of one council member from each ward of the
city and one council member at large. The council members from the wards shall
be qualified electors of their respective wards at the time of their election;
but removal of a council member from one ward or precinct to another within the
city after his or her election, or a change in ward boundaries, shall not
disqualify him or her from completing the term for which he or she was elected.
The council member at large shall be a qualified elector of the city. If a
council member ceases to be a resident of the city, he or she shall thereupon
cease to be a council member. No council member may hold any position in the
city government by appointment by the city manager. Council terms begin
immediately upon the taking of public oath required by Oklahoma statute and
shall continue until respective successors are sworn in. (2002 Code § 2.08.010;
amd. 2013 Code)
1-7-2: MAYOR AND VICE MAYOR:
   A.   Election: The council shall elect from among its members a mayor and a
vice mayor. The mayor and vice mayor shall be elected in each odd numbered year
at the first council meeting held after council terms begin, or as soon
thereafter as practicable, and they shall serve until their respective
successors have been elected and qualified.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Mayor: The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council, and shall
certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed
thereby. He or she shall be recognized as head of the city government for all
ceremonial purposes and by the governor for purposes of military law. He or she
shall have no regular administrative duties; except, that he or she shall sign
all conveyances and such other written obligations of the city as the council
may require. (2002 Code § 2.08.020)
      2.   Vice Mayor: The vice mayor shall act as mayor during the absence,
disability or suspension of the mayor, and if a vacancy occurs, shall become
mayor for the completion of the unexpired term.
   C.   Vacancy In Office Of Vice Mayor: If, by succession to the office of
mayor or otherwise, the office of vice mayor becomes vacant, the council shall
elect another vice mayor from among its members for completion of the unexpired
term. (2002 Code § 2.08.020; amd. 2013 Code)
1-7-3: COMPENSATION:
Neither the mayor, vice mayor nor any other council member of the city may
receive any compensation as such or for any other services rendered the city.
The mayor, vice mayor and any other council member may submit verified expenses
to the city treasurer for reimbursement. (2002 Code § 2.08.030; amd. Ord. 490,
11-18-2002; Ord. 529, 2-7-2005; 2013 Code)
1-7-4: COUNCIL POWERS:
Except as otherwise provided in this title, all powers of the city, including
the determination of all matters of policy, shall be vested in the city
council. Without limitation of the foregoing, the city council may: (2002 Code
§ 2.08.040; amd. 2013 Code)
   A.   Appoint and remove the city manager as provided by this title.
   B.   Enact municipal legislation subject to such limitations as may now or
hereafter be imposed by the Oklahoma constitution and law.
   C.   Raise revenue, make appropriations, regulate salaries and wages and all
other fiscal affairs of the city, subject to such limitations as may now or
hereafter be imposed by the Oklahoma constitution and law.
   D.   Inquire into the conduct of any office, department or agency of the
city, and investigate municipal affairs, or authorize and provide for such
inquiries. (2002 Code § 2.08.040)
   E.   Appoint or elect and remove members of commissions, boards, trust
authorities and other quasi-legislative or quasi-judicial officers as provided
by law, or prescribe the method of appointing or electing and removing them.
   F.   Create, change and abolish offices, departments and agencies
established by this code, and assign additional functions and duties to
offices, departments and agencies established by this code. (2002 Code §
2.08.040; amd. 2013 Code)
   G.   Grant pardons for violations of city ordinances, including the
remission of fines and costs, upon the recommendation of the municipal judge.
(2002 Code § 2.08.040)
1-7-5: LIMITATION OF COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO ACT THROUGH CITY MANAGER:
Except for the purposes of inquiry, the city council and its members shall deal
with the administrative service of the city solely through the city manager.
The council and its members may not:
   A.   Direct or request the city manager or other authority to appoint or
remove officers or employees;
   B.   Participate in any manner in the appointment or removal of officers and
employees of the city, except as provided by law; or
   C.   Give orders on ordinary administrative matters to any subordinate of
the city manager either publicly or privately. (2002 Code § 2.08.050)
1-7-6: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall meet regularly at least
bimonthly and shall hold its regularly scheduled meetings on the first and
third Mondays of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and shall continue to
do so until changed by resolution or motion. If a meeting day falls on a
holiday, as designated by the city council, the regular meeting shall be held
on the next business day.
   B.   Special Meetings: The mayor or any three (3) council members may call
special meetings in accordance with procedures established by the Oklahoma open
meeting act. (2002 Code § 2.08.070; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Location Of Meetings: Every meeting of the council shall be held in the
city hall council chambers, unless the mayor or the council members calling a
regular or special meeting designate another place in the city for the holding
of the regular or special meeting; provided, that any adjourned meeting may be
held at any other place within the city designated by the council. (2002 Code §
2.08.080; amd. 2013 Code)
1-7-7: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
   A.   When a vacancy occurs in the office of a municipal elected official,
except the mayor, the city council shall appoint, by a majority vote of the
remaining members, a person to fill the vacancy until the next general
municipal election and until a successor is elected and qualified. Any vacancy
shall then be filled at the next general municipal election by election of a
person to complete the balance of any unexpired term. If the vacancy has not
been filled within sixty (60) days after it occurs, the city council shall call
for a special election for the purpose of filling the vacancy for the duration
of the unexpired term. If a vacancy is not filled by the special election, it
should be filled by appointment as provided in this subsection.
   B.   When a majority of city council offices are vacant more than sixty (60)
days before the beginning of a regular filing period for general municipal
elections, the remaining members of the city council shall call for a special
election to be held in the city for the purpose of filling all vacant offices
for the remainder of their unexpired terms. For this purpose, the requirement
of a quorum may be waived. (2002 Code § 2.08.060; amd. 2013 Code)
1-7-8: AUTHORITY TO SECURE SERVICES:
   A.   The city is authorized to secure the services of the Oklahoma municipal
league and to be a member thereof. (2002 Code § 1.04.070)
   B.   The city council may provide for membership in, or secure the services
of, other organizations to the extent allowed in the annual budget. (2002 Code
§ 1.04.070; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointment; Qualifications; Restrictions
1-8-2: Duties
1-8-3: Acting City Manager
1-8-4: Suspension Or Removal Of City Manager And Acting City Manager
1-8-1: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; RESTRICTIONS:
The city council shall appoint a city manager for an indefinite term by a vote
of a majority of all its members. He or she shall be chosen solely on the basis
of his or her executive and administrative qualifications with special
reference to his or her actual experience in, or his or her knowledge of,
accepted practices in respect to the duties of his or her office. At the time
of his or her appointment, the city manager need not be a resident of the city
or state, but if not, he or she shall locate residence in the city during the
first year of his or her tenure and shall continue to reside within the city
for the remainder of his or her tenure. The city manager may appoint himself or
herself, or the council or other authority may appoint or elect him or her, to
other offices and positions in the city government, subject to regulations
prescribed by ordinance, but he or she may not receive compensation for service
in such other offices or positions. Neither the mayor nor any members of the
city council may be appointed city manager during the term for which he or she
shall have been elected nor within two (2) years after the expiration of his or
her term. (2002 Code § 2.12.010; amd. 2013 Code)
1-8-2: DUTIES:
The city manager shall be the chief executive officer and head of the
administrative branch of the city government. He or she shall execute the laws
and administer the government of the city and shall be responsible therefor to
the council. He or she shall:
   A.   Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the city, remove, demote,
lay off or suspend all heads of administrative departments and other
administrative officers and employees of the city except as otherwise provided
by law. The manager or the council, by ordinance, may authorize the head of a
department, office or agency to appoint and remove the subordinates in such
department, office or agency subject to the right of the city manager to
approve or reject the same;
   B.   Supervise and control all administrative departments, officers and
agencies;
   C.   Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the city council and be
responsible for the administration of the budget after it goes into effect; and
recommend to the council any changes in the budget which he or she deems
desirable;
   D.   Submit to the council a report after the end of each fiscal year on the
finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding year;
   E.   Keep the council advised of the financial condition and future needs of
the city, and make recommendations as he or she deems necessary or appropriate;
and
   F.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or by ordinance.
(2002 Code § 2.12.020; amd. 2013 Code)
1-8-3: ACTING CITY MANAGER:
The city manager, by letter filed with the city clerk, may appoint a qualified
administrative officer of the city to be acting city manager during the
temporary absence or disability of the city manager. The council may appoint an
acting city manager whenever:
   A.   The city manager fails to make such designation;
   B.   The council suspends the city manager; or
   C.   There is a vacancy in the office of city manager. (2002 Code §
2.12.030)
1-8-4: SUSPENSION OR REMOVAL OF CITY MANAGER AND ACTING CITY MANAGER:
The council may suspend or remove the city manager or acting city manager at
any time by a vote of a majority of all its members. (2002 Code § 2.12.040)
CHAPTER 9
CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Office Created; Appointment And Term
1-9A-2: Duties
1-9A-3: Compensation
1-9A-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
The city clerk shall be an officer of the city, appointed by the city manager
for an indefinite term. (2013 Code)
1-9A-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Subject to such regulations and policies as may be established by the
city council or the city manager, the city clerk shall:
      1.   Serve as clerk for the city council, to include keeping a record of
minutes and documentation of actions taken;
      2.   Keep a journal of the proceedings of the city council;
      3.   Enroll all ordinances and resolutions passed by the city council in
a book or set of books kept for that purpose;
      4.   Act as the designated custodian of records for all administrative
records as set out more completely in chapter 12 of this title, including the
keeping of such archives and official sealed documents as required by law or
ordinance;
      5.   Attest and affix the seal of the city to documents as required by
law or ordinance; and
      6.   Have such other powers, duties and functions related to his or her
statutory duties as may be prescribed by law, ordinance or directive.
   B.   The person who serves as city clerk may be employed or assigned by the
city to perform duties not related to the position of city clerk. The salary,
if any, for such additional duties shall be provided for separately within the
annual municipal budget ordinance. (2013 Code)
1-9A-3: COMPENSATION:
Compensation for the position of city clerk shall be designated within the
annual municipal budget ordinance. (2013 Code)
ARTICLE B. FINANCE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Finance Director
1-9B-2: City Treasurer
1-9B-1: FINANCE DIRECTOR:
The finance director shall be an officer of the city appointed by the city
manager for an indefinite term. The finance director shall have supervision and
control of the department of finance. (2013 Code)
1-9B-2: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment And Term: The city treasurer shall be an
officer of the city, appointed by the city council for an indefinite term. The
same person may hold the offices of city clerk and city treasurer.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Subject to such regulations and policies as may be established by
the city council or the city manager, the city treasurer shall:
         a.   Deposit daily funds received for the city in such depositories as
the city council may designate;
         b.   Cooperate with the city manager and the city council in the
process of creating the annual municipal budget;
         c.   Keep one or more accounts accurately reflecting all city revenues
and expenditures;
         d.   Keep one or more accounts accurately reflecting all trust
authority revenues and expenditures;
         e.   Ensure the timely payment of all city payroll, tax and debt
obligations; and
         f.   Have such other powers, duties and functions related to his or
her statutory duties as may be prescribed by law, ordinance or directive.
      2.   The person who serves as city treasurer may be employed by the city
to perform duties not related to the position of city treasurer.
   C.   Compensation: Compensation for the position of city treasurer shall be
designated within the annual municipal budget. The salary, if any, for such
additional duties as are authorized by subsection B2 of this section shall
likewise be provided for separately within the annual municipal budget. (Ord.
703, 7-20-2015)
ARTICLE C. LEGAL DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-9C-1: Established; Appointment, Removal And Qualifications Of City Attorney
1-9C-2: Duties Of City Attorney
1-9C-1: ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL AND QUALIFICATIONS OF CITY ATTORNEY:
There shall be a legal department, the head of which is the city attorney who
shall be appointed by, and shall report to, the city manager for an indefinite
term. Removal of the city attorney shall be at the discretion of the city
manager, subject to city personnel policies governing the termination of city
employees generally. The city attorney is an officer of the city and has
supervision and control of the legal department. The city attorney shall be an
attorney licensed by the Oklahoma Bar Association. (Ord. 519, 7-8-2004; amd.
2013 Code)
1-9C-2: DUTIES OF CITY ATTORNEY:
The city attorney is the chief legal adviser of the city council and all other
officers, departments, and agencies of the city in matters relating to their
official powers and duties. He or she is the prosecuting officer for the city
in municipal court and represents the city in proceedings in the civil courts
and performs all services incident to his or her position which may be required
by law or ordinance. (2002 Code § 2.24.020; amd. 2013 Code)
ARTICLE D. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-9D-1: Established; Chief Of Police
1-9D-2: Duties Of Police Officers
1-9D-3: Police Officer Hiring Requirements
1-9D-4: Bylaws
1-9D-5: Volunteer And Reserve Officers
1-9D-5-1: Police Reserve Force
1-9D-1: ESTABLISHED; CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Department Established; Appointment And Removal Of Chief: There shall
be a police department, the head of which is the chief of police who shall be
appointed by the city manager for an indefinite term and removable by the city
manager. (2002 Code § 2.40.010)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The chief of police is an officer of the city and
has supervision and control of the police department. The chief of police shall
enforce the municipal ordinances and shall have such other powers, duties and
functions as may be prescribed by law or ordinance. (2002 Code § 2.40.010; amd.
2013 Code)
   C.   Qualifications:
      1.   Any person appointed to the position of chief of police shall meet
the following qualifications:
         a.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age;
         b.   Be a citizen of the United States;
         c.   Possess at least a high school diploma or general education
diploma (GED);
         d.   Be certified as a peace officer in this state by the council on
law enforcement education and training (CLEET), or meet all requirements
necessary for CLEET certification and obtain such certification within six (6)
months of assuming the position of chief of police or as otherwise allowed by
70 Oklahoma Statutes chapter 50, section 3311; and
         e.   Have successfully completed a course of training meeting at least
the minimal criteria established by CLEET for police chief administration,
successfully completed an approved police chief administrative school approved
CLEET, or successfully complete such course of training or school within twelve
(12) months of assuming the position of chief of police.
      2.   a. Any person who does not meet the qualifications of subsection C1d
or C1e of this section at the time of appointment to the position of chief of
police and who fails, after assuming the position of chief of police, to meet
such qualifications within the time required shall be removed from the
position.
         b.   Any person assuming the position of chief of police without prior
CLEET certification who fails to complete an approved course of training or
police chief administration school within the time required shall be precluded
from obtaining CLEET certification while in such position.
         c.   CLEET shall establish minimal criteria for the qualifications of
subsection C1e of this section relating to a course of training and police
chief administration schools and approve all training offered in this state
relating to police administration. (2013 Code)
1-9D-2: DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   In accordance with state law, a police officer of the city is defined
as a full time duly appointed (temporary or permanent) officer who is paid for
working more than twenty five (25) hours per week and whose duties are to
preserve the public peace; protect life and property; prevent crime; apprehend
and arrest on view, on verified complaint or on warrant, the perpetrators of
crime and deliver them to proper authorities; serve warrants, writs and
executions; suppress unlawful assembly; and enforce laws and ordinances of the
state and city. (2013 Code)
   B.   All police officers are officers of the city. (2002 Code § 2.40.010)
   C.   The police department has charge of and operates the city jail. (2002
Code § 2.40.020; amd. 2013 Code)
1-9D-3: POLICE OFFICER HIRING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum qualifications for a person to be appointed or retained, as
applicable, as a temporary police officer in the city include the following:
      1.   Such person has attained twenty one (21) years of age prior to
certification as a peace officer and may not be more than forty five (45) years
of age at the time of hire.
      2.   Such person must possess a high school diploma or a GED equivalency
certificate (preference may be shown to candidates with advanced education, but
such is not required).
      3.   Such person has provided proof of United States citizenship or
resident alien status, pursuant to an employment eligibility verification form
from the United States citizenship and immigration services.
      4.   The Oklahoma state bureau of investigation and the federal bureau of
investigation must report that such person has no record of conviction for a
felony, crime involving moral turpitude or crime of domestic violence; and is
not participating in a deferred sentence agreement for any of such offenses.
      5.   Such person shall give consent to undergo a preemployment drug
screen. Positive testing with respect to any illegal substance will result in
immediate termination of the hiring process or of temporary employment status,
as applicable.
      6.   Such person's driving record shall disclose a valid Oklahoma
driver's license; no more than two (2) moving violations within the most recent
three (3) years; no more than one at fault traffic accident within the most
recent three (3) years; and no DWI, DUI or reckless driving violation within
the past five (5) years.
      7.   Such person must certify that he or she is physically capable of
fully participating in and will complete all phases of the council on law
enforcement education and training (CLEET) basic peace officer certification
academy.
   B.   No temporary police officer shall receive a permanent appointment
unless and until:
      1.   Pursuant to state law, the city has administered an evaluation using
a psychological instrument approved by CLEET. The city shall administer this
evaluation in accordance with standards established within the test document. A
psychologist of the candidate's choice and at the candidate's expense, provided
the psychologist is licensed by the state of Oklahoma, shall interpret the test
results. The city shall provide the psychologist a statement confirming the
identity of the individual taking the test as the person who is employed or
seeking to be employed as a police officer and attesting that it administered
the evaluation as required. The psychologist shall certify whether the employee
is suitable to serve as a police officer. Any person found to be unsuitable for
permanent appointment as a police officer shall be ineligible for
reconsideration for a minimum of one year.
      2.   Such temporary police officer shall, within no more than six (6)
months from the date of appointment as a temporary police officer, successfully
complete all phases of the CLEET basic peace officer certification academy. Any
person failing to meet this requirement shall be immediately terminated from
employment unless CLEET determines there is good cause for an extension of the
time requirement.
      3.   Following certification by CLEET, such temporary police officer must
satisfactorily complete a ten (10) week field training program with a field
training officer.
      4.   Following all foregoing requirements for permanent appointment as a
police officer in the city, the officer will be placed on the same one year
probationary period applicable to all city employees. (2013 Code)
   C.   Every person who is employed as a permanent police officer prior to
July 1, 1968, or is retired under 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 50-114, shall
enjoy the privilege of certification as afforded by this section. (2002 Code §
2.40.030; amd. 2013 Code)
1-9D-4: BYLAWS:
   A.   All police officers are required, when notified, to respond to alarms
and emergencies.
   B.   Unless excused by the chief of police, they are required to be present
at all regular meetings, special meetings, and special schools and seminars
presented for the benefit of police officers.
   C.   The police department shall have at least one regular department
meeting each month.
   D.   Any regular police officer or reserve police officer having two (2)
unexcused absences in succession or three (3) unexcused absences in a period of
three (3) months will be discharged from the police department as a full time
officer or as a reserve officer.
   E.   All reserve police officers leaving the city for an extended period of
time will be required to notify the chief of police.
   F.   Any reserve police officer refusing to attend training classes provided
for him or her will be terminated.
   G.   Any reserve member of the police department shall be dropped from the
rolls for any of the following offenses:
      1.   Conduct unbecoming a police officer.
      2.   Any act of insubordination.
      3.   Neglect of duty.
      4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the police
department.
      5.   Conviction of a felony, a crime involving moral turpitude, or a
crime of domestic violence. (2002 Code § 2.40.020; amd. 2013 Code)
1-9D-5: VOLUNTEER AND RESERVE OFFICERS:
The police department may use reserve officers as provided in the city
council's annual budget. The chief of police shall propose rules and
regulations for the organization and use of said volunteers or reserves as may
be approved by the city council. (2002 Code § 2.40.040)
1-9D-5-1: POLICE RESERVE FORCE:
   A.   Established: There is established a police reserve force for the city.
   B.   Appointment: Members of the police reserve force shall be appointed or
relieved and serve at the discretion of the chief of police, with the consent
and approval of the city manager, and shall serve as police officers during the
actual discharge of official duties only. (2002 Code § 2.40.040)
   C.   Call To Active Duty: Members of the police reserve force may be called
into active service at any time the chief of police considers it necessary to
have additional police officers to preserve the peace and enforce the law.
While upon active duty, the members of the police reserve force are authorized
to make arrests for violation of the ordinances, laws and regulations of the
city and the state.
   D.   Compensation: Members of the police reserve force of the city shall
serve without compensation and shall not be considered members of the regular
city police department and shall not, under any conditions, become eligible for
a pension and retirement fund of the city. Noncompensated reserve officers may
serve as dispatchers or confinement officers at the city jail.
   E.   Training, Qualifications And Standards: Reserve police officers shall
be trained in accordance with 70 Oklahoma Statutes chapter 50, section 3311.
The chief of police may establish additional training requirements,
qualifications and standards for members of the police reserve force and shall
establish rules and regulations governing reserve police officers. The city
manager may establish minimum standards for reserve officers as used by the
regular police department. (2002 Code § 2.40.040; amd. 2013 Code)
ARTICLE E. FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-9E-1: Established; Employment Requirements
1-9E-2: Duties Of Department Members
1-9E-3: Powers And Duties Of Chief
1-9E-4: Composition Of Department
1-9E-5: New Members
1-9E-6: Volunteers/Reserves
1-9E-7: Control At Fires
1-9E-8: Inspections
1-9E-9: Right Of Way
1-9E-10: Service Outside City Limits
1-9E-11: Regulations
1-9E-12: Inspection, Testing And Maintenance Reports
1-9E-1: ESTABLISHED; EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   There shall be a fire department, the head of which is the chief of the
fire department, or fire chief, appointed by the city manager for an indefinite
term, and removable by the city manager. The chief of the fire department is an
officer of the city and has supervision and control of the fire department.
(2002 Code § 2.44.010)
   B.   Employment and promotions in the fire department will be based, in
part, on the ability to successfully complete and qualify on an objective
recognized test. (2002 Code § 2.44.010; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Employment qualifications for firefighters are as follows:
      1.   Must be between twenty one (21) and forty five (45) years of age.
      2.   Must be a high school graduate or have a GED certificate. (2002 Code
§ 2.44.010)
      3.   Must have or be able to qualify for a commercial operator's or
driver's license. (2002 Code § 2.44.010; amd. 2013 Code)
      4.   Must be able to pass a physical examination (city's choice of
doctor).
      5.   Must have an insurable driving record. (2002 Code § 2.44.010)
1-9E-2: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
It is the duty of the fire department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate and to administer first aid
to persons injured in or about burning structures, or elsewhere, in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention; and, unless otherwise provided, to
enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention, and safety of
persons from fire, explosions and other emergency situations. (2002 Code §
2.44.020; amd. 2013 Code)
1-9E-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF:
   A.   The chief, as head of the department, shall be subject to the laws of
the state of Oklahoma, ordinances of the city, and the rules and regulations
herein adopted.
   B.   The chief shall be held responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him or her. (2002 Code § 2.44.030)
   C.   The chief shall inspect, or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply in
the city at least twice per year. (2002 Code § 2.44.030; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   The chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of said publications to the
best advantage of all members.
   E.   The chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties.
   F.   The chief shall see that citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in
the community and on the activities of the department.
   G.   The chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause and, in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify
proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use
in the case.
   H.   The chief shall keep the council informed regarding the fire department
and its needs, and shall make such reports as the council and city manager may
require. (2002 Code § 2.44.030)
   I.   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel, and other information about
the work of the department, and shall make such reports as the city manager and
council may require. (2002 Code § 2.44.060)
1-9E-4: COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Deputy Chief: The deputy chief(s) shall be selected upon his or her
ability to meet the following requirements: (2002 Code § 2.44.090; amd. 2013
Code)
      1.   Knowledge of firefighting.
      2.   Ability to lead people.
      3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (2002 Code § 2.44.090)
   B.   Company Officers: The company officers shall be selected upon their
ability to meet the following requirements:
      1.   Knowledge of firefighting.
      2.   Ability to lead people.
      3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
      4.   Performance on an objective test. (2002 Code § 2.44.100)
1-9E-5: NEW MEMBERS:
   A.   Testing Fee: There is hereby established a testing fee to be included
with the application forms for the new firefighters. The purpose of the fee is
to cover the expenses of testing materials and evaluation of new candidates.
The amount of the fee is established by the city council. (Ord. 569, 5-7-2007;
amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Probationary Period: All new members shall be on probation for one year
after their appointment. (2002 Code § 2.44.120)
1-9E-6: VOLUNTEERS/RESERVES:
The fire department may use reserve firefighters as provided in the city
council's annual budget. The fire chief shall propose rules and regulations for
the organization and use of said volunteers as may be approved by the city
council. The rules of the department shall include: (2002 Code § 2.44.130)
   A.   The fire department includes volunteer firefighters. It shall include
not less than twelve (12) nor more than twenty five (25) volunteer
firefighters.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter, a volunteer firefighter shall be
considered one who is enrolled as a member of the fire department and who
serves in that capacity without receiving a regular salary, but receiving an
amount per call as established by the city council in which he or she
participates. (2002 Code § 2.44.130; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   D.   All volunteer firefighters are required to be present at all regular
meetings, call meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighters.
   E.   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
   F.   Any volunteer firefighter having two (2) unexcused absences in
succession or three (3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will
be dropped from the fire department rolls.
   G.   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an extended period of time will
be required to notify the chief. (2002 Code § 2.44.130)
   H.   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him or her will be discharged.
   I.   Any volunteer member of the fire department shall be discharged from
the rolls for the following offenses: (2002 Code § 2.44.130; amd. 2013 Code)
      1.   Any act of insubordination.
      2.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter.
      3.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department.
      4.   Neglect of duty.
      5.   Conviction of a felony. (2002 Code § 2.44.130)
1-9E-7: CONTROL AT FIRES:
The chief of the fire department or the person acting in his or her absence
shall have full power, control, and command over all persons whomsoever present
at all fires, and he or she shall direct the use of all fire apparatus and
equipment, and command all firefighters in the discharge of their duties. He or
she shall take such measures as may be necessary in the preservation and
protection of persons and property and the extinguishing of fires. (2002 Code §
2.44.070; amd. 2013 Code)
1-9E-8: INSPECTIONS:
The chief is empowered to enter any and all buildings and premises at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve written
notice upon the owner or occupant to abate, within a specified time, any and
all fire hazards that may be found. Any person so served with a notice to abate
any fire hazard or hazards shall comply therewith and promptly notify the
chief. (2002 Code § 2.44.050)
1-9E-9: RIGHT OF WAY:
All motor equipment of fire department members shall have the right of way over
all other traffic when responding to an alarm. (2002 Code § 2.44.080)
1-9E-10: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Charges:
      1.   Any contract entered into by the city with an individual owner,
firm, private corporation or association to provide fire protection outside the
corporate limits of the city shall provide for the payment therefor by the
owner, firm, private corporation, or association to the city in amount(s) to be
established by the city council.
      2.   The total amount chargeable to such owner, firm, private corporation
or association for services provided pursuant to a contract provided by
subsection A1 of this section shall be certified by a bill of costs presented
to the city clerk by the chief. The city clerk shall add any other applicable
costs and deliver an invoice for the total amount to such owner, firm, private
corporation or association. The total amount on the invoice shall be paid to
the city clerk, and the total amount so paid shall be credited to the general
fund of the city. (2002 Code § 2.44.140; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Authority To Dispatch Equipment: Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit
the chief of the fire department, or his or her deputy on duty, from
dispatching fire or other emergency equipment outside the corporate limits of
the city as deemed necessary and appropriate. (2002 Code § 2.44.150; amd. 2013
Code)
1-9E-11: REGULATIONS:
The mayor and city council, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change
regulations relating to the fire department, its organization, and operation.
The chief may recommend such regulations and changes therein to the city
manager and city council any time. (2002 Code § 2.44.040)
1-9E-12: INSPECTION, TESTING AND MAINTENANCE REPORTS:
All inspection, testing and maintenance reports related to fire suppression,
fire detection and life safety equipment systems that are required to be
furnished to the fire department by the fire code shall be electronically
forwarded to the fire department using the City’s approved online system for
inspection, testing and maintenance reporting. Any company doing work on fire
suppression, fire detection and life safety equipment systems installed in
structures within the City shall be required to register with the City’s
approved online reporting system and pay any fees assessed in connection with
the submission of inspection and maintenance reports. Reports furnished in a
manner that does not comply with the provisions of this subsection shall result
in the system being deemed non-compliant with the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 826, 4-7-2025)
ARTICLE F. PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-9F-1: Established; Composition
1-9F-2: Divisions
1-9F-3: Duties
1-9F-1: ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There shall be a public works department, the head of which shall be the
director of public works. The city manager or, if on staff, the director of
community development shall be ex officio director of public works unless he or
she appoints another to be director of public works. The director is an officer
of the city and has supervision and control of the public works department.
(2002 Code § 2.52.010; amd. 2013 Code)
1-9F-2: DIVISIONS:
There shall be such divisions within the public works department as the city
manager or the city council may create, with such appropriate titles and with
such powers and duties of the department as may be assigned to the respective
divisions. The head of a division may have an appropriate title such as chief,
superintendent, manager, etc. (2002 Code § 2.52.020; amd. 2013 Code)
1-9F-3: DUTIES:
The public works department shall have the following duties insofar as the city
performs these functions by its own forces (and not by contract or other
delegation):
   A.   To improve, maintain and clean streets (including alleys and other
public ways), bridges and sidewalks, and traffic control signs, markings,
signals and devices; to erect and maintain street name signs; and to supervise
the use of rights of way by privately owned utilities.
   B.   To improve, maintain and operate the water system and the storm and
sanitary sewer systems.
   C.   To maintain and operate all parks, playgrounds, swimming pools and
other recreational facilities and programs operated by the city.
   D.   To maintain and operate any cemetery owned or administered by the city.
   E.   To perform such other functions relating to the construction,
maintenance, repair, improvement and operation of the physical facilities owned
or used by the city government as the city manager may prescribe consistent
with laws and ordinances.
   F.   To enforce, upon adoption by the city council of ordinances referring
to specifications or standards pertaining to matters which the city has the
power to regulate, such specifications and guidelines as may be necessary in
the construction, improvement and maintenance of buildings, sewers, water
lines, streets, sidewalks, and their appurtenances or other public works within
the city.
   G.   To collect and dispose of garbage and other refuse as provided by this
code, or to contract with a private firm to perform such duties. (2002 Code §
2.52.020; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-10-1: Number And Classes Of Officers And Employees; Compensation
1-10-2: Bond Requirements
1-10-3: Succession In Emergencies
1-10-4: Appointments, Suspensions And Removals
1-10-5: Employee Handbook And Personnel Policies Adopted
1-10-1: NUMBER AND CLASSES OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; COMPENSATION:
   A.   The city council, by motion, resolution or ordinance, may regulate the
number and classes of offices and positions of employment in the various
departments, offices and agencies of the city, and may determine or regulate
the compensation to be paid to officers and employees. Compensation not
otherwise provided for shall be at the prevailing minimum wage rate. (2002 Code
§ 2.32.010)
   B.   Neither the municipal judge nor any other officer or employee of the
city may receive as compensation any fee of any kind except as may be
specifically provided by ordinance; and all fees and other monies collected for
the city by an officer or employee shall be paid to the city clerk or his or
her designee to be deposited as provided by law. (2002 Code § 2.32.010; amd.
2013 Code)
1-10-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Before entering upon their official duties, and in no case later than
ten (10) days after appointment, the following officers of the city shall
provide bonds for the faithful performance of their official duties, payable to
the city, with a surety company authorized to operate within the state, in the
amounts respectively indicated after their titles:
 
City Officer                                                     Bond Amount
City manager                                                     $ 5,000.00
City clerk                                                       50,000.00
City treasurer                                                   50,000.00
City clerk and city treasurer in case the same person holds both 75,000.00
offices
Utility billing clerk                                            5,000.00
Municipal court clerk (see also subsection                       5,000.00
1-11-7B of this title)
 
   B.   The city council may, by motion or resolution, require other officers
and employees in such positions as it may designate to be bonded in such
amounts as it determines. The city council may also, by motion or resolution,
increase the amount of the bonds for the personnel listed in subsection A of
this section and may also provide for blanket bonds for city personnel. The
city shall pay the premiums on such bonds. (2002 Code § 2.32.020; amd. 2013
Code)
1-10-3: SUCCESSION IN EMERGENCIES:
The line of succession to be used in establishing the government head of the
city, in the event of an emergency or disaster that incapacitates one or more
officers, shall be as follows:
   A.   Mayor, vice mayor and city council members acting by quorum if
achievable.
   B.   City manager.
   C.   Assistant city manager.
   D.   Director of community development.
   E.   Chief of police.
   F.   Fire chief. (2002 Code § 2.32.030; amd. 2013 Code)
1-10-4: APPOINTMENTS, SUSPENSIONS AND REMOVALS:
   A.   Appointments and promotions in the service of the city shall be made
solely on the basis of merit and fitness, and removals, demotions, suspensions,
and layoffs shall be made solely for the good of the city, in the discretion of
the city manager. (2002 Code § 2.04.030; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   An officer or employee may be suspended, demoted, laid off or removed
by the city manager or other authority which has the power to appoint or elect
the officer or employee. The city manager or other authority who has the power
to appoint or elect the successor of an officer or employee may appoint or
elect a person to act during the temporary absence, disability or suspension of
such officer or employee or, in the case of a vacancy, until a successor is
appointed or elected and qualified. The council may ordain that a particular
superior or subordinate or deputy of such officer or employee shall act in such
cases. (2002 Code § 2.04.040)
1-10-5: EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK AND PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED:
There are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, as if fully set out
herein, the city employee handbook and personnel policies. One copy of such
employment handbook and personnel policies shall be distributed to the senior
ranking employee at each city worksite, one copy shall be on file in the office
of the city clerk for public use and inspection, and one copy shall be on file
with the director of human resources for employee use. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 11
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Scope; Conflicting Provisions
1-11-2: Definitions
1-11-3: Jurisdiction
1-11-4: Municipal Judge
1-11-5: Change Of Venue Not Allowed
1-11-6: Police Chief
1-11-7: Court Clerk
1-11-8: Prosecuting Officer
1-11-9: Rules Of The Court
1-11-10: Prosecutions Verified By Complaint; Style
1-11-11: Arrests; Release By Signing Citation; Bail
1-11-12: Arrests For Traffic Violations; Release; Bail
1-11-13: Summons, Arrest Warrant, Warrentless Arrest
1-11-14: Bail; Temporary Bonds
1-11-15: Arraignment
1-11-16: Trial And Judgment Procedures
1-11-17: Enforcement By Imprisonment; Inability To Pay
1-11-18: Working Prisoners
1-11-19: Fines, Court Costs And Fees
1-11-20: Dishonored Checks
1-11-1: SCOPE; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal court
not of record of the city, as put into operation by resolution duly passed and
filed in accordance with law, as authorized by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections
27-101 through 27-131, and any additions or amendments thereto. To the extent
of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
other ordinance of the city, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(2002 Code § 2.36.010; amd. 2013 Code)
1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
CLERK: The clerk of the municipal court, including any deputy or member of the
office staff of the clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
COURT: The municipal court of the city.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof, as provided by the statutes of the state and this
chapter.
MUNICIPALITY OR THE MUNICIPALITY: The city.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The Tulsa County district court of the 14th judicial
district of the state of Oklahoma. (2002 Code § 2.36.020; amd. 2013 Code)
1-11-3: JURISDICTION:
The Glenpool municipal court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and
determine all prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the city, or
any statutory offense to the extent such offense is within the statutory
jurisdiction for municipal courts not of record within incorporated cities, is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance
with applicable law; provided, that the court shall not have jurisdiction to
prosecute any unlawful act or omission declared by state statute to be
punishable as a felony. The court is also authorized, as it deems necessary or
appropriate, to dismiss and refer criminal cases to the district court for
Tulsa County. (Ord. 642, 1-3-2011)
1-11-4: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Qualifications:
      1.   There shall be one judge of the court. A judge must be duly licensed
to practice law in the state of Oklahoma. He or she may engage in the practice
of law in other courts, but he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent
with his or her duties as judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or
are connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the court pending therein
or which might become the subject of proceedings therein. (2002 Code §
2.36.040)
      2.   The judge shall be a resident of Tulsa County or an adjoining county
or shall maintain a law practice within Tulsa County. (2002 Code § 2.36.080;
amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Term Of Judge: The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years,
expiring on the first Monday in June of each odd numbered year. (2002 Code §
2.36.050)
   C.   Alternate Judge: There may be appointed for each judge of the court, an
alternate judge, possessed of the same qualifications as the judge. His or her
appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
judge. He or she shall sit as acting judge of the court in any case if the
judge is: 1) absent from the court; 2) unable to act as judge; or 3)
disqualified from acting as judge in the case. (2002 Code § 2.36.060)
   D.   Acting Judge: If, at any time, there is no judge or alternate judge
duly appointed and qualified available to sit as judge, the mayor shall appoint
some person, possessed of the same qualifications as the judge, as judge, who
shall preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition of pending
matters until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be available. (2002
Code § 2.36.070; amd. 2013 Code)
   E.   Appointment Of Judge And Alternate Judge: Judges and alternate judges
shall be licensed to practice law in Oklahoma and be appointed by the mayor,
with the consent of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be
submitted in writing to the governing body at the next to the last regularly
scheduled meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take
effect, and shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The
governing body may decide upon the proposed appointment by a majority vote of a
quorum present for acting. Failure of decision upon a proposed appointment
shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly scheduled meeting of the
governing body, unless the mayor, in writing, withdraws the proposed
appointment. (2002 Code § 2.36.080)
   F.   Compensation: A presiding judge shall receive such compensation as the
city, by motion or resolution, may determine. (2002 Code § 2.36.090)
   G.   Removal:
      1.   Removal For Cause: Judges shall be subject to removal from office by
the governing body for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of
the state for the removal of public officers.
      2.   Filing Of Petition: Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by
the filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by: a) the mayor; or b) twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of
the municipality. In the latter event, verification may be executed by one or
more of the petitioners.
      3.   Hearing; Notice: The governing body shall set a date for hearing the
matter and shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to
be served personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing.
At the hearing, the judge shall be entitled:
         a.   To representation by counsel;
         b.   To present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against
him or her; and
         c.   To have all evidence against him or her presented in open
hearing.
      4.   Procedures: So far as they can be made applicable, the provisions of
the Oklahoma administrative procedure act governing individual proceedings 1
and any amendments or additions thereto, in effect at the time of the hearing,
shall govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be
entered only upon individual votes by a majority of all members of the
governing body in favor of such removal. (2002 Code § 2.36.100)
 
Notes
1 1. 75 OS §§ 309 - 317.
1-11-5: CHANGE OF VENUE NOT ALLOWED:
In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed, but the
judge before whom the case is pending may certify his or her disqualification
or may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an alternate or acting judge appointed as provided in this
chapter. (2002 Code § 2.36.110)
1-11-6: POLICE CHIEF:
All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his or her official
capacity, to the chief of police of the municipality. (2002 Code § 2.36.120;
amd. 2013 Code)
1-11-7: COURT CLERK:
   A.   Designation; Duties: The clerk of the municipality, or a deputy
designated by him or her, shall be the clerk of the court. He or she shall:
(2002 Code § 2.36.130; amd. 2013 Code)
      1.   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparing writs, processes, and other papers.
      2.   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the court.
      3.   Enter all pleadings, processes, and proceedings in the dockets of
the court.
      4.   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the judge shall direct.
      5.   Receive and receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits, and sums of
money payable to the court.
      6.   Pay to the treasurer of the municipality, daily, all monies so
received by him or her, except such special deposits or fees as shall be
received to be disbursed by him or her for special purposes. All monies paid to
the treasurer shall be placed in the general fund of the municipality or in
such other fund as the governing body may direct, and they shall be used in the
operation of the municipal government in accordance with budgetary arrangements
governing the fund in which they are placed. (2002 Code § 2.36.130)
   B.   Bond: The clerk of the court shall give bond in the form provided by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 27-111, in the sum of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) 1 . When executed, the bond shall be submitted to the governing
body for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the clerk of the
municipality and retained in the municipal archives. The municipality shall pay
the premium on such bond. (2002 Code § 2.36.150; amd. 2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-10-2A of this title.
1-11-8: PROSECUTING OFFICER:
   A.   Attorney For Municipality To Serve: The attorney for the municipality,
or his or her designated assistant, shall be the prosecuting officer of the
court. (2002 Code § 2.36.140)
   B.   Duties: The prosecuting officer shall: (2002 Code § 2.36.140; amd. 2013
Code)
      1.   Prosecute all alleged violations of the ordinances of the city.
      2.   Be authorized, in his or her discretion, to prosecute and resist
appeals, proceedings in error, and review from the court to any other courts of
the state, and to represent the municipality in all proceedings arising out of
matters in the court. (2002 Code § 2.36.140)
1-11-9: RULES OF THE COURT:
   A.   Rules Prescribed: The judge may prescribe rules consistent with the
laws of the state and with ordinances of the municipality for the proper
conduct of the business of the court. (2002 Code § 2.36.160)
   B.   Enforcement Of Rules; Contempt: Obedience to the orders, rules, and
judgments made by the judge or by the court may be enforced by the judge, who
may fine or imprison for contempt committed as to him or her while holding
court, or committed against process issued by him or her, in the same manner
and to the same extent as the district courts of the state. (2002 Code §
2.36.170)
   C.   Procedures: The rules of procedure in the municipal court shall be the
same as are now provided by law for the trial of misdemeanors. The court shall
take judicial notice of state statutes and the ordinances of the municipality.
Writs and processes of the court may be issued by the judge or clerk thereof to
any proper officer. All writs and processes of the municipal court wherein a
violation of a municipal ordinance is charged shall be directed to the chief of
police of the municipality or to some other appropriate peace officer. A law
enforcement officer of the municipality issuing an arrest warrant may serve
such warrant any place in Tulsa County. (2002 Code § 2.36.180)
1-11-10: PROSECUTIONS VERIFIED BY COMPLAINT; STYLE:
All prosecutions for violation of ordinances of the municipality shall be
styled "The City of Glenpool, Oklahoma vs. (naming defendant or defendants)".
Except as provided herein, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a
written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and
setting forth concisely the offense charged. (2002 Code § 2.36.190)
1-11-11: ARRESTS; RELEASE BY SIGNING CITATION; BAIL:
   A.   Whenever a resident of the municipality is arrested for the violation
of any ordinance, traffic or nontraffic, by a law enforcement officer, the
officer shall immediately release such person if he or she acknowledges receipt
of a citation by signing it unless it reasonably appears to the officer that
the person may cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property if released, or that the person will not appear in response to the
citation. If such person fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant
shall be issued for his or her arrest and his or her appearance shall be
compelled.
B. Whenever a resident of the municipality is arrested by a law enforcement
officer for the violation of any ordinance and is not released by being
permitted to sign a citation as provided in subsection A of this section, he or
she shall be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment, or released
on his or her own recognizance.
C. Whenever a resident or nonresident of the municipality is arrested for a
misdemeanor violation or a traffic violation by a law enforcement officer, the
defendant, if eligible, may sign a written promise to appear and then may be
released on personal recognizance. (2002 Code § 2.36.200)
1-11-12: ARRESTS FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; RELEASE; BAIL:
   A.   Compliance With State Law: A person who is arrested for a municipal
traffic violation by a law enforcement officer shall comply with the procedures
provided by law in 22 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1115 through 1115.5, and any
additions or amendments thereto, for state traffic violations with respect to
release of the arrested person, and the methods of posting bail shall apply
pursuant to this section and section
1-11-11 of this chapter. (2002 Code § 2.36.200; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Release On Personal Recognizance; Arraignment; Failure To Plead Or
Appear:
      1.   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person,
whether a resident of the state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law
or municipal traffic ordinance shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
         a.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by Oklahoma, another state jurisdiction within the United States
which is a participant in the nonresident violator compact or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
         b.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
         c.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
on the citation; and
         d.   The violation does not constitute:
            (1) A felony;
            (2) Negligent homicide;
            (3) Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
            (4) Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
            (5) Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
            (6) An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
            (7) A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections B1d(1) through B1d(6) of this section;
            (8) An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
            (9) A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
      2.   a.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided in subsection B1 of this section, then the arresting
officer shall:
            (1) Designate the traffic charge;
            (2) Record information from the arrested person's driver's license
on the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state,
and expiration date;
            (3) Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
            (4) Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
            (5) Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear
as provided in the citation.
         b.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person's driver's license in Oklahoma or in the
nonresident's home state pursuant to the nonresident violator compact.
      3.   The court, or the court clerk as directed by the court, may continue
or reschedule the date and time of arraignment upon request of the arrested
person or his or her attorney. If the arraignment is continued or rescheduled,
the arrested person shall remain on personal recognizance and written promise
to appear until such arraignment, in the same manner and with the same
consequences as if the continued or rescheduled arraignment was entered on the
citation by the arresting officer and signed by the defendant. An arraignment
may be continued or rescheduled more than one time; provided, however, the
court shall require an arraignment to be had within a reasonable time. It shall
remain the duty of the defendant to appear for arraignment unless the citation
is satisfied as provided in subsection B4 of this section.
      4.   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he or she is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the
copy of the citation furnished to him or her or on a legible copy thereof,
together with the date of the plea and his or her signature. The defendant
shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the
court clerk. Payment of the fine and costs may be made by personal, cashier's,
traveler's, certified or guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial money
order, or other form of payment approved by the court in an amount prescribed
as bail for the offense; provided, however, the defendant shall not use
currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or
nolo contendere as provided in this subsection B4, such plea shall be accepted
by the court and the amount of the fine and costs shall be:
         a.   As prescribed in 22 Oklahoma Statutes section 1115.3 as bail for
the violation;
         b.   In case of a municipal violation, as prescribed by municipal
ordinance for the violation charged; or
         c.   In the absence of such law or ordinance, then as prescribed by
the court.
      5.   a.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection B4 of this
section, the defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a
warrant for the arrest of the defendant, and the municipal court clerk, within
one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was issued by
the arresting officer, shall notify the department of public safety that:
            (1) The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided in the citation;
            (2) The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
            (3) The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any
other arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
            (4) The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law. (2002
Code § 2.36.210)
         b.   Additionally, the court clerk shall request the department of
public safety to either suspend the defendant's driver's license to operate a
motor vehicle in the state, or notify the defendant's home state and request
suspension of the defendant's driver's license in accordance with the
provisions of the nonresident violator compact. Such notice and request shall
be on a form approved or furnished by the department of public safety.
         c.   The court clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided in subsection B5a of this section if, with respect to such charges:
(2002 Code § 2.36.210; amd. 2013 Code)
            (1) The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
            (2) The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon
a signed written promise to appear as provided in this subsection or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
            (3) The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
            (4) A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer. (2002
Code § 2.36.210)
      6.   Following receipt of the notice and request from the court clerk for
driver's license suspension as provided in subsection B5 of this section, the
department of public safety shall proceed as provided in 22 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1115.5.
      7.   The court clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driver's
license suspension submitted to the department of public safety pursuant to the
provisions of this subsection. When the clerk receives appropriate bail or
payment of the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes other arrangements
with the defendant, or otherwise closes the case, the clerk shall furnish proof
thereof to the defendant if the defendant personally appears, or shall mail
such proof by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the defendant at the
address noted on the citation or at such other address as is furnished by the
defendant. Additionally, the court or the clerk shall notify the home
jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the citation if such jurisdiction is
a member of the nonresident violator compact, and shall, in all other cases,
notify the department of the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the
procedures for notification shall be approved by the department of public
safety. Provided however, the court's or court clerk's failure to furnish such
proof or notice in the manner provided in this subsection B7 shall in no event
create any civil liability upon the court, the court clerk, the state of
Oklahoma or any political subdivision thereof, or any state department or
agency or any employee thereof, but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the
person entitled thereto upon request. (2002 Code § 2.36.210; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Posting Bail; Failure To Appear; Release On Personal Recognizance;
Juveniles:
      1.   If a person arrested for a traffic violation is released upon
personal recognizance as provided in 22 Oklahoma Statutes section 1115.1, but
subsequently posts bail and thereafter fails to timely appear as provided by
law, the court may issue a warrant for the person's arrest, and the case shall
be processed as provided in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-118. (2002 Code §
2.36.220; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   If the defendant is not eligible for release upon personal
recognizance as provided in 22 Oklahoma Statutes section 1115.1, or if eligible
but refuses to sign a written promise to appear, the officer shall deliver the
person to an appropriate magistrate for arraignment, and the magistrate shall
proceed as otherwise provided by law. If no magistrate is available, the
defendant shall be placed in the custody of the municipal or county jailer or
custodian, to be held until a magistrate is available or bail is posted as
provided in 22 Oklahoma Statutes section 1115.3, or as otherwise provided by
law or ordinance.
      3.   a.   If a resident or nonresident is arrested for any overweight
violation, a violation of a special permit exceeding authorized permit weight,
or a violation relating to the transportation of hazardous material, the
arresting officer may release the defendant if:
            (1) In case of a state violation, the defendant deposits with the
arresting officer appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs in an
amount and in the form as provided in subsection B of this section, except
currency; or
            (2) In case of a municipal violation, then as may be provided by
the municipality.
         b.   In the event the defendant is additionally arrested for any
violation for which personal recognizance is authorized pursuant to this
subsection or the bail amount for that offense, the arresting officer, for such
additional violation, may either release the defendant upon such recognizance
or require bail as provided in this subsection C3.
         c.   If the defendant is unable to post bail with the arresting
officer, then the officer shall proceed as otherwise provided in this
subsection.
      4.   a.   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a juvenile may be
held in custody pursuant to the provisions of this subsection, but shall be
incarcerated separately from any adult offender. Provided, however, the
arresting officer shall not be required to:
            (1) Place a juvenile into custody as provided in this subsection;
or
            (2) Place any other traffic offender into custody:
               (A) Who is injured, disabled, or otherwise incapacitated;
               (B) If custodial arrest may require impoundment of a vehicle
containing livestock, perishable cargo, or items requiring special maintenance
or care; or
               (C) If extraordinary circumstances exist which, in the judgment
of the arresting officer, indicate that custodial arrest should not be made.
In such cases, the arresting officer may designate the date and time for
arraignment on the citation and release the person. If the person fails to
appear without good cause shown, the court may issue a warrant for the person's
arrest.
         b.   The provisions of this subsection C4 shall not be construed to:
            (1) Create any duty on the part of the officer to release a person
from custody;
            (2) Create any duty on the part of the officer to make any inquiry
or investigation relating to any condition which may justify release under this
subsection; or
            (3) Create any liability upon any officer, or the state or any
political subdivision thereof, arising from the decision to release or not
release such person from custody pursuant to the provisions of this subsection
C4. (2002 Code § 2.36.220)
      5.   The amount and conditions of bail granted under subsections C2 and
C3 of this section shall be determined by the judge who shall prescribe rules
for the receipt of bail and for the release on recognizance. In the event of
arrests at night, or other emergency, or when the judge is not available, the
chief of police or designated representative shall be authorized by the judge
to accept a temporary cash bond in an amount equivalent to the maximum fine
provided by ordinance for each offense charged. The chief of police or
designated representative is authorized, within his or her discretion and
subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed by the judge, to release a
resident of the municipality on his or her own recognizance. (2002 Code §
2.36.220; amd. 2013 Code)
      6.   If the alleged offense is a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator is not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in subsection
C1 of this section, with such variation as the circumstances require. The
operator of the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him or her personally under subsection C1
of this section. (2002 Code § 2.36.220)
1-11-13: SUMMONS, ARREST WARRANT, WARRANTLESS ARREST:
   A.   Summons:
      1.   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of an ordinance,
the judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless
the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and
has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person
charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known, stating
the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her notice to
answer the charge in the court on a day certain, containing a provision for the
official return of the summons, and including such other pertinent information
as may be necessary. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the
defendant personally.
      2.   If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as provided
in this chapter. (2002 Code § 2.36.240)
   B.   Arrest Warrant:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this code, upon the filing of a
complaint approved by endorsement by the prosecuting authority, the judge shall
issue a warrant of arrest in the form and manner prescribed by statute. (2002
Code § 2.36.250; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   It shall be the duty of the chief of police, personally or through a
duly constituted member of the police force of the municipality or through any
other persons lawfully authorized so to act, to execute the warrant as promptly
as possible. (2002 Code § 2.36.250)
   C.   Warrantless Arrest: A peace officer may, without a warrant, arrest a
person:
      1.   For a public offense committed or attempted in the officer's
presence; or
      2.   Upon such other exigent, violent or felonious circumstances as
provided by state statute. (2013 Code)
1-11-14: BAIL; TEMPORARY BONDS:
Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, or at any other time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his or her
appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by the judge, who shall
prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail. In case of
arrests made at night or under conditions of emergency or when the judge is not
available, the chief of police or his or her designated representative is
authorized to accept a temporary cash bond for an amount equivalent to the
maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for such offense charged and
subject to the provisions of section
1-11-11 and subsection
1-11-12A of this chapter. (2002 Code § 2.36.260; amd. 2013 Code)
1-11-15: ARRAIGNMENT:
Upon making his or her appearance before the court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The judge or the attorney of the municipality shall read the
complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights,
including the right of trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of
conviction, and ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty.
If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to judgment and sentence
or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is not
guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the court may proceed to try the
case or may set it for hearing at a later date. (2002 Code § 2.36.270)
1-11-16: TRIAL AND JUDGMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Postponement: Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof. (2002 Code § 2.36.280)
   B.   Presence At Trial: The defendant must be present in person at the
trial. (2002 Code § 2.36.290)
   C.   Trial Procedure: In all trials, as to matters not covered in this
chapter, or by the statutes relating to municipal courts, or by rules duly
promulgated by the supreme court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that
they can be made effective. (2002 Code § 2.36.300)
   D.   Judgment Of Court: If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after
trial, the court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the
limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence
accordingly. (2002 Code § 2.36.310)
   E.   Entry In Docket: At the close of trial, judgment shall be rendered by
the judge, who will cause it to be entered in his or her docket. (2002 Code §
2.36.320)
   F.   Acquittal: If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once. (2002
Code § 2.36.330)
   G.   Suspension Of Sentence: After conviction and sentence, the judge may
suspend sentence, in accordance with the provisions of and subject to the
conditions and procedures imposed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-123 and
27-124. (2002 Code § 2.36.340)
   H.   Trial By Jury:
      1.   Required: In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances
punishable by fine of more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by
imprisonment, or by such fine and imprisonment, trial shall be by jury unless
waived by the defendant. If trial by jury is waived, trial shall be to the
court. (2002 Code § 2.36.350; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   Waiver: At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked whether he or
she demands or waives trial by jury. His or her election shall be recorded in
the minutes of the arraignment and entered on the docket of the court
respecting proceedings in the case. (2002 Code § 2.36.360)
      3.   Changing Waiver: An election waiving jury trial made at arraignment
may be changed by the defendant at any time prior to the day for which trial by
the court is set; an election demanding jury trial may be changed at any time
prior to the commencement of proceedings to impanel the jury for the trial, but
if that change occurs after the case has been set for jury trial, it may not
thereafter be rechanged so as again to demand trial by jury. (2002 Code §
2.36.370)
      4.   Selection Of Jury:
         a.   Jurors in the municipal court shall be selected under the same
terms and conditions as are provided for by law for the district courts, or in
the alternative, pursuant to subsection H4b of this section. Upon written
request of the judge of the municipal court for a stated number of jurors to
the chief judge of the district court, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the
district court to draw from the jury wheel a requested number of jurors in the
same manner as is provided by law for the district court until the number
requested, who from their addresses appear to reside within the corporate
limits of the municipality, is drawn, and to prepare a list of names drawn and
certify such list to the judge of the municipal court. On completion of the
draw, the clerk shall immediately return to the jury wheel all names drawn
which are not placed on the certified list. The judge of the municipal court
shall make written request to the chief judge of the district court for a
stated number of additional jurors if, after allowance of claimed statutory
exemptions, the listed number is found to be insufficient. Summons of the
prospective jurors shall be issued as set out by ordinance, and may be served
in person by the chief of police or any member of the police force of the
municipality, or may be served by the clerk of the municipal court by mail.
         b.   In lieu of any other procedure now provided by law, the judge in
charge of court administration in the county may, by order, adopt a plan for
the selection of qualified jurors for jury service with the aid of mechanical
or electronic means and implement such plan upon its approval by the supreme
court. Where such a plan is adopted by the county, as provided in this
subsection H4b, the laws relating to the selection of petit jurors by use of a
jury wheel shall not apply. The municipal court, at the option of the municipal
judge, may select jurors in the same manner as provided for by the plan. The
municipal court clerk shall be designated to fulfill the duties provided in the
plan for the district court clerk. (2002 Code § 2.36.380; amd. 2013 Code)
      5.   Summons To Jurors:
         a.   Upon receipt of the jury list, the clerk of the court shall cause
a summons, substantially in the following form, to be issued and served upon
each person on the list:
STATE OF OKLAHOMA   )
               )ss.
COUNTY OF TULSA   )
To (name of juror) Greetings: You are hereby summoned to appear in the
Municipal Court for the City of Glenpool, Oklahoma, to be held at (specify the
address, room number, etc.) on the         day of             , 20     , at the
hour of (specify hour) to serve as a juror in said Court, and to continue in
such service until discharged by the Court.
Hereof fail not, under penalty of law.
Issued under the authority of said Court, this        day of              ,
20     .
Clerk of the Municipal Court of Glenpool Oklahoma
   (SEAL OF COURT)
   (2002 Code § 2.36.390)
         b.   Service shall be made as the judge may prescribe by rule or
direct by order, either in person upon the juror by the chief of police, or by
any member of the police force of the municipality, or by the clerk of the
court, by registered or certified mail, directed to the juror at his or her
address as given in the jury list, with request for a personally signed return
receipt, no fewer than ten (10) days before the person is to appear as a juror.
In any proceeding wherein service of summons by mail is in issue, evidence of
the due mailing of the summons by the clerk or a member of his or her staff and
the presentation of an official postal return receipt purportedly signed by the
addressee, and therefore, that he or she was properly served therewith. (2002
Code § 2.36.390; amd. 2013 Code)
      6.   Number Of Jurors; Qualifications: A jury in the court shall consist
of six (6) jurors, good and lawful men or women, citizens of the county of
Tulsa, state of Oklahoma, possessing the qualifications of jurors in district
court. (2002 Code § 2.36.400)
      7.   Jurors Seated Collectively: After the jurors are sworn, they must
sit together and hear the proofs and oral arguments of the parties, which must
be delivered in public and in the presence of the defendant. (2002 Code §
2.36.410)
      8.   Verdict:
         a.   A verdict of the jury may be rendered by the vote of five (5)
jurors. (2002 Code § 2.36.420)
         b.   The verdict of the jury, in all cases, must be general. When the
jury has arrived at its verdict, it must deliver the verdict publicly to the
court. The judge must enter the verdict in the docket or cause it to be so
entered. (2002 Code § 2.36.440)
      9.   Determination Of Questions Of Law: In all actions tried before a
jury, the judge shall determine all questions of law, including questions as to
the introduction of evidence, arising during the trial. He or she also shall
instruct the jury as to the law. (2002 Code § 2.36.430)
      10.   Discharge Of Jury: The jury must not be discharged after the cause
is submitted thereto until a verdict is rendered, unless the judge, for good
cause, discharges it sooner, in which event, the court may proceed again to
trial, and so on, until a verdict is rendered. (2002 Code § 2.36.450)
      11.   Compensation Of Jurors:
         a.   Jurors shall receive for their services the sum of seven dollars
fifty cents ($7.50) per day or partial day, plus mileage at the rate of twenty
cents ($0.20) per mile necessarily traveled by the most direct route in going
to and from the court from their respective places of residence. The claims for
such compensation shall show the location of the juror's residence and the
route and miles traveled, and must be verified as other claims against the
municipality are verified.
         b.   Jurors shall be paid out of the general funds of the
municipality; provided, that if a judgment of conviction on any criminal charge
is entered after a jury has been sworn, the defendant shall be assessed fees
for payment of each juror's service per day or partial day, plus mileage, all
as set out in subsection H11a of this section. (2002 Code § 2.36.460; amd. 2013
Code)
   I.   Judgment Of Imprisonment: If, after conviction, judgment of
imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be
delivered to the chief of police, the sheriff of the county, or other
appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution
of the sentence. (2002 Code § 2.36.470)
1-11-17: ENFORCEMENT BY IMPRISONMENT; INABILITY TO PAY:
   A.   If a defendant who is financially able refuses or neglects to pay a
fine or costs, or both, payment may be enforced by imprisonment until the same
shall be satisfied at the rate of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day. If the
defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the municipal judge may
direct the total amount due to be entered upon the court minutes and to be
certified to the district court in the county, where it shall be entered upon
the district court judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of
a district court judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies shall be available for
the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other judgment
creditor.
   B.   All sentences of imprisonment shall be executed by the chief of police
of the municipality, and any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance
of the municipality and sentenced to imprisonment shall be confined in the
municipal jail for a sentence of ten (10) or fewer days or removed to the
county jail for a sentence of more than ten (10) days, in the discretion of the
court, for the time specified in the sentence; provided, however, the court
may, in lieu of imprisonment, order the defendant to engage in a term of
community service without compensation. If the defendant fails to perform the
required community service or if the conditions of community service are
violated, the judge may impose a sentence of imprisonment, not to exceed the
maximum sentence allowable for the violation for which the defendant was
convicted.
   C.   The judge of the municipal court imposing a judgment and sentence, at
his or her discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce, or suspend or defer the
imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to authorize probation for
a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of sentence, under such
terms or conditions as the judge may specify. Procedures relating to suspension
of the judgment or costs, or both, shall be as provided in 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 27-123. Upon completion of the probation term, the defendant shall be
discharged without a court judgment of guilt, and the verdict, judgment of
guilty or plea of guilty shall be expunged from the record and the charge
dismissed with prejudice to any further action. Upon a finding of the court
that the conditions of probation have been violated, the municipal judge may
enter a judgment of guilty.
   D.   The judge of the municipal court may continue or delay imposing a
judgment and sentence for a period of time not to exceed six (6) months from
the date of sentence. At the expiration of such period of time, the judge may
allow the prosecuting authority to amend the charge to a lesser offense. (2002
Code § 2.36.480; amd. 2013 Code)
1-11-18: WORKING PRISONERS:
   A.   All prisoners sentenced to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may,
if their health permits, be permitted to work on the public streets, avenues,
alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or property. For each day of
such work, the prisoner shall be credited for not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) per day. (2002 Code § 2.36.490; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   The chief of police, subject to the direction of the city manager,
shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the department in
charge of the place where the work is to be performed, himself or herself or by
some person designated by him or her, shall oversee the work. If a guard is
necessary, the chief of police shall make provisions therefor. (2002 Code §
2.36.490)
1-11-19: FINES, COURT COSTS AND FEES:
   A.   Established:
      1.   Bond Schedule: There shall be a bond schedule to be adopted by the
city council which shall set forth the maximum fines, court costs and
applicable state or local fees which may be imposed on any defendant sentenced
in the municipal court. For each offense, the total amount of such fines, costs
and fees shall be used to set the bond for release from jail with respect to
those defendants who are arrested and detained. No person so detained may be
released for less than the bond determined by such total.
      2.   Fines For Traffic Violations And Minor Infractions: A defendant in
the municipal court who is charged only with parking or traffic violations, or
other minor infraction(s) as determined and communicated to the court clerk by
the municipal judge, and as to which no imprisonment is provided as a penalty
may pay the full bond amount in lieu of his or her appearance before the court,
which payment shall be a final determination of the cause against the defendant
which will expedite and assist in the administration of justice. (2013 Code)
      3.   Minors: Pleas of guilty and the payment of fines and costs will not
be accepted from persons under the age of eighteen (18) unless accompanied by
their parent or legal guardian. (2002 Code § 2.36.520)
   B.   Bond Forfeitures And Bench Warrants: In those cases requiring a court
appearance, the court may accept forfeiture of the bond and apply it to the
fine and costs or forfeit the bond and issue a warrant for the arrest of a
defendant failing to appear. (2002 Code § 2.36.540; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Penalty For Failure To Appear: In those cases in which a defendant has
given his or her written promise to appear and fails to do so, that person
shall, upon conviction of his or her wilful failure to appear, be fined in an
amount not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus costs and fees.
Further, a bench warrant may issue for his or her arrest for his or her failure
to appear. Such conviction for failure to appear shall not affect the
underlying offense for which the person failed to appear. (2002 Code §
2.36.570; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   Court Costs, Fees And Assessments 1 : All applicable costs, fees and
assessments for which a defendant in the municipal court may be ordered liable
for payment are identified as follows, and authorized amounts shall be
identified on the bond schedule adopted in accordance with subsection A1 of
this section.
      1.   Court Costs: Court costs are those monies assessed by the court for
general operating expenses necessary to the continued functioning of the court
in the final adjudication of any offense charged. Unless otherwise provided by
law or unless such costs are suspended by a judge of the municipal court, court
costs in an amount not to exceed thirty dollars ($30.00) shall be assessed
against and collected by the court clerk or the appropriate finance official of
the city from all parties convicted of violations of this code and from all
parties ordered to pay court costs in those cases pending before the court.
Conviction includes any final adjudication of guilt, including all parties
pleading guilty to such violations, all parties pleading nolo contendere or no
contest, and parties entering a plea on a suspended, continued or deferred
judgment.
      2.   Administrative Fee On Deferred Sentences: If a deferred sentence is
imposed by the court, an administrative fee not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) may be imposed as costs in the case, in addition to the applicable
deferral fee.
      3.   Deferral Fee: For any deferred sentence imposed by the court, a
deferral fee in an amount not to exceed the maximum fine that may be imposed
upon conviction of that offense may be assessed by the court against a
defendant and collected by the court clerk or the appropriate finance official
of the city.
      4.   Remittal To Defray Costs Of Enforcement Of Alcohol Related Offenses:
Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 14-111, the court shall remit to the
city fifty dollars ($50.00) of each alcohol or drug related offense fine or
deferral fee, to be placed into a fund which shall be used to defray the cost
of enforcing laws relating to juvenile access to alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, other laws relating to alcohol or other intoxicating substances,
and traffic related offenses involving alcohol or other intoxicating
substances.
      5.   Court Technology Fee: For the purpose of defraying the cost of
purchasing, operating and maintaining computerized, digital communications, and
other electronic systems specially necessary to the efficient operation of the
municipal court, unless suspended by the court, a fee in an amount not to
exceed two dollars ($2.00) shall be assessed against and collected by the court
clerk or the appropriate finance official of the city from all parties
convicted of violations of this code and from all parties ordered to pay court
costs in those cases pending before the court.
      6.   CLEET Fee: Pursuant to 20 Oklahoma Statutes section 1313.2, upon
conviction, and in addition to fines and costs, a nine dollar ($9.00) council
on law enforcement education and training (CLEET) penalty assessment shall be
collected on offenses punishable by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00) or more or
by incarceration, excluding parking or standing violations, and on bond
forfeiture.
      7.   Fingerprinting Fee: Pursuant to 20 Oklahoma Statutes section 1313.3,
upon conviction, and in addition to fines and costs, an automated
fingerprinting identification system (AFIS) penalty assessment in the amount of
five dollars ($5.00) shall be collected on offenses punishable by a fine of ten
dollars ($10.00) or more or by incarceration, excluding parking or standing
violations, and on bond forfeiture. The court clerk shall cause this amount, as
collected, less fifty cents ($0.50) authorized to be retained by the city, to
be remitted as required in 20 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1313.2 and 1313.3, on
a monthly basis.
      8.   Laboratory Analysis Fee: Pursuant to 20 Oklahoma Statutes section
1313.2, upon conviction, the defendant shall be required to pay a laboratory
analysis fee in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each
offense, if forensic science or laboratory services are rendered or
administered by the Oklahoma state bureau of investigation, by the toxicology
laboratory of the office of the chief medical examiner or by any municipality
or county in connection with the case. This fee shall be in addition to and not
a substitution for any and all fines and penalties otherwise provided for by
law for the offense. The court clerk shall cause this amount, as collected, to
be remitted as required in 20 Oklahoma Statutes section 1313.2, on a monthly
basis.
      9.   Bureau Of Narcotics Drug Education Fee: Pursuant to 20 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1313.2, upon conviction, any person entering a plea of guilty
or nolo contendere (no contest) or is found guilty of the crime of misdemeanor
possession of marijuana or drug paraphernalia shall be ordered by the court to
pay a five dollar ($5.00) fee in addition to and not a substitution for any and
all fines and penalties otherwise provided for by law for the offense. The
court clerk shall cause this amount, as collected, to be remitted as required
in 20 Oklahoma Statutes section 1313.2, on a monthly basis.
      10.   Alcohol/Drug Testing Fee: Pursuant to 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
752, upon conviction, the person convicted for any offense involving the
operation of a motor vehicle while under the influence of or while impaired by
alcohol or an intoxicating substance, or both, as a direct result of the
incident which caused the collection of blood, breath, saliva or urine
specimens, for the purpose of determining the alcohol or other intoxicating
substance thereof, shall be ordered by the court to pay an amount equal to the
costs incurred for such collection as part of the court costs of the person and
shall be remitted to the law enforcement agency bearing such costs. The cost of
collecting, retaining and sending or delivering to an independent laboratory
the excess specimens of blood, breath, saliva or urine for independent analysis
at the option of the tested person shall, upon conviction, also be borne by the
tested person at whose option such analysis is performed.
      11.   Forensic Fee: Pursuant to 20 Oklahoma Statutes section 1313.4, upon
conviction of any offense, including traffic offenses but excluding parking and
standing violations, the defendant shall be required to pay a forensic science
improvement assessment in the amount of five dollars ($5.00) for each offense
punishable by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00) or more or by incarceration, or
any person forfeiting any bond when charged with any offense, shall be ordered
by the court to pay. The assessment shall be in addition to, and not in
substitution for, any and all fines and penalties otherwise provided by law for
the offense. The court clerk shall cause this amount, as collected, to be
remitted as required in 20 Oklahoma Statutes section 1313.2, on a monthly
basis; provided, that the city is authorized to retain five percent (5%) of
such assessment. The court clerk shall remit such assessments collected, less
any amount to be retained, to be remitted as required in 20 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1313.4, on a monthly basis.
      12.   Failure To Use Child Restraint System: Pursuant to 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 11-1112, any person convicted of failure to protect a child by
use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt, as applicable, shall
be punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) and shall pay all court costs
thereof. Revenue from such fine shall be apportioned to the department of
public safety restricted revolving fund and used by the Oklahoma highway safety
office to promote the use of child passenger restraint systems. This fine shall
be suspended and the court costs limited to a maximum of fifteen dollars
($15.00) in the case of the first offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition
by loan of a child passenger restraint system.
      13.   Costs Of Emergency Run: Pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
2819, any person convicted of calling the number 911 for the purpose of making
a knowingly false alarm or complaint; reporting knowingly false information
which could result in the dispatch of emergency services from any public
agency; or calling 911 for nonemergency or personal use shall, in addition to
any and all fines and penalties otherwise provided, be ordered to pay an
assessment for the resulting costs of any dispatching of emergency personnel
and equipment for each such offense.
      14.   City Retainage For Administration: Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 14-111.1, the municipal court, upon collecting any penalty assessment
or other state fee from a defendant pursuant to state law, shall retain eight
cents ($0.08) of such monies and may also retain all interest accrued thereon
prior to the due date for deposits as provided in state law. (2013 Code)
      15.   Collection Fee: Pursuant to statute, a collection fee of thirty
five percent (35%) of court penalties, costs, fines and fees in cases in which
the accused has failed to satisfy a monetary obligation imposed by the court
shall be added to any such case which is referred to a collection agency for
collection. (Ord. 621, 7-20-2009; amd. 2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-4-2 of this title.
1-11-20: DISHONORED CHECKS:
   A.   In any case where the municipal court clerk accepts any personal check
or other form of a negotiable instrument from the defendant or from any person
acting for or on his or her behalf in the payment of a fine or as bail for his
or her appearance for arraignment, trial or a hearing, and the check or
instrument proves to be on a closed account or is insufficient, false, bogus, a
forgery, or otherwise dishonored for any reason, the municipal court clerk
shall not be civilly liable personally or upon his or her official bond for the
amount of such instrument or for the amount of the fine imposed in the case, or
criminally liable therefor.
   B.   A personal check or other instrument tendered to the municipal court
clerk for bail or for the payment of fine and costs, if dishonored and returned
to the clerk for any reason other than the lack of proper endorsement, shall
constitute nonpayment of bail or fine, as the case may be, and the court, in
addition to any civil or criminal remedy otherwise provided by law, may issue a
bench warrant for the arrest of the person named on the citation to require his
or her appearance on the charge specified. (2002 Code § 2.36.230; amd. 2013
Code)
CHAPTER 12
PUBLIC RECORDS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Access To Records
1-12-3: Custodians Of Public Records
1-12-4: Requests For Records
1-12-5: Procedures
1-12-6: Fees
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of "record", "public body", "public office", "public official",
and "law enforcement agency", as provided by the Oklahoma open records act, are
adopted and incorporated by reference herein. (2002 Code § 2.64.010)
1-12-2: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
All public records shall be available for inspection and copying under the
conditions set forth in this chapter except those records which are exempt from
public access as set forth in the Oklahoma open records act or other state or
federal legislation. (2002 Code § 2.64.020)
1-12-3: CUSTODIANS OF PUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   Official Custodian: The city manager is designated the official
custodian of all public records of the city for all purposes related to the
Oklahoma open records act.
   B.   Delegated Custodians: The city manager shall have the authority to
appoint additional record custodians for the various departments within the
government of the city. Upon the city manager appointing additional record
custodians, a list of the same shall be filed with the city clerk. Such
additional custodians shall include, without limitation:
      1.   City clerk, custodian of administrative, financial, municipal court,
utility billing, trust authority and city council records.
      2.   City planner, custodian of records for planning and zoning, board of
adjustment, code enforcement, building inspections and community development.
      3.   Chief of police, custodian of police department records.
      4.   Fire chief, custodian of fire department records.
These descriptions and assignments are subject to change without amendment of
this subsection.
   C.   Duties Of Additional Custodians:
      1.   Protect public records assigned to them from damage and
disorganization;
      2.   Ensure timely and appropriate response to all applications for
inspection or reproduction of public records in accordance with the open
records act; and
      3.   Carry out procedures adopted by the city for inspecting and copying
open public records. (2002 Code § 2.64.040; amd. 2013 Code)
1-12-4: REQUESTS FOR RECORDS:
   A.   All members of the public, in seeking access to or copies of a public
record(s) in accordance with the provisions of the Oklahoma open records act,
shall address their requests to the departmental custodian charged with
responsibility for the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or
copied.
   B.   Whenever any city official or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this chapter is presented with a request for access to or copy
of a public record, which record the custodian does not have in his or her
possession and which he or she has not been given responsibility to keep and
maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record and
shall refer the person making the request to the appropriate custodian to whom
the request should be addressed, if known by the custodian receiving the
request. (2002 Code § 2.64.040; amd. 2013 Code)
1-12-5: PROCEDURES:
The following procedures are adopted and shall be applied by each official and
delegated custodian:
   A.   Consistent with the policy, duties and procedures established by the
Oklahoma open records act, record custodians shall provide full access to or
copies of records in a lawfully timely manner to persons who request such
access to or copies of public records.
   B.   Record custodians shall protect the integrity and organization of
public records with respect to the manner in which such records are inspected
and copied.
   C.   Record custodians shall prevent excessive disruption of essential
functions of their respective departments by providing the record at the
earliest reasonable time.
   D.   All inspections and copying of open public records shall be performed
by, or under the supervision of, the record custodian responsible for such
records.
   E.   All persons requesting the inspection of or copies of open public
records shall make such request in writing on a form prescribed for that
purpose prior to the request being honored; except, that no form shall be
required for requests made for records which have been reproduced for free
public distribution.
   F.   All record inspection and copying forms are to be completed by the
person requesting the record. The record custodian may demand reasonable
identification of any person requesting a record. (2002 Code § 2.64.050; amd.
2013 Code)
1-12-6: PROCEDURES:
The following procedures are adopted and shall be applied by each official and
delegated custodian:
   A.   Consistent with the policy, duties and procedures established by the
Oklahoma open records act, record custodians shall provide full access to or
copies of records in a lawfully timely manner to persons who request such
access to or copies of public records.
   B.   Record custodians shall protect the integrity and organization of
public records with respect to the manner in which such records are inspected
and copied.
   C.   Record custodians shall prevent excessive disruption of essential
functions of their respective departments by providing the record at the
earliest reasonable time.
   D.   All inspections and copying of open public records shall be performed
by, or under the supervision of, the record custodian responsible for such
records.
   E.   All persons requesting the inspection of or copies of open public
records shall make such request in writing on a form prescribed for that
purpose prior to the request being honored; except, that no form shall be
required for requests made for records which have been reproduced for free
public distribution.
   F.   All record inspection and copying forms are to be completed by the
person requesting the record. The record custodian may demand reasonable
identification of any person requesting a record. (2002 Code § 2.64.050; amd.
2013 Code)
TITLE 2
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Property And Vehicle Insurance
2-1-2: Mobile Homes; Regulations For Parking Fees And Utilities Charges
2-1-3: Acceptance Of Beneficial Interest In Various Trusts
2-1-1: PROPERTY AND VEHICLE INSURANCE:
   A.   Property Insurance: The city council may insure property of the city or
purchase other insurance as authorized by 51 Oklahoma Statutes section 151 et
seq., and 19 Oklahoma Statutes section 627. Any money received as a result of
destruction, damages or loss of such insured property shall be accounted for
and used as provided by said section 627. (2002 Code § 3.12.040; amd. 2013
Code)
   B.   Vehicle Insurance: The city council may purchase insurance to pay
damage to persons sustaining injuries or damages to property as a result of
negligent operation of motor vehicles or motorized equipment of the city, as
authorized by 51 Oklahoma Statutes section 151 et seq. (2002 Code § 3.12.040)
2-1-2: MOBILE HOMES; REGULATIONS FOR PARKING FEES AND UTILITIES CHARGES:
The owner, owners, or occupant of real estate within the city limits upon which
any house trailer or mobile home is located, and not in a regularly established
trailer park, shall be responsible for any unpaid parking fees and water and
sewer service, with such items to be charged to the owner, owners, or occupant
of such service, and billed separately to the owners of the trailer or mobile
home. (2002 Code § 3.12.010)
2-1-3: ACCEPTANCE OF BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN VARIOUS TRUSTS:
   A.   Glenpool Utility Services Authority: The city council does accept, for
and on behalf of the city, the beneficial interest in the public trust
designated as the Glenpool utility services authority, provided in the
declaration of trust of said public trust dated June 12, 1967, and as amended,
for the comprehensive purpose of furthering and providing funds for the
furthering of any authorized or proper function of the city, including, but not
limited to, the furnishing and supplying of utility services and facilities in
the city and in reasonable proximity thereto, and for purposes collateral
thereto, in all respects in accordance with the declaration of trust and the
applicable laws of the state of Oklahoma, and the city council is authorized
and directed to endorse such acceptance of beneficial interest on the
declaration of trust for and on behalf of the city as beneficiary thereunder.
(2002 Code § 3.12.020; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Glenpool Industrial Trust: The city council does accept, for and on
behalf of the city, the beneficial interest in the public trust designated as
the Glenpool industrial trust, provided in the declaration of trust of the
public trust dated September 21, 1981, and as amended, for the purposes and in
all respects in accordance with the declaration of trust and the applicable
laws of the state of Oklahoma, and the city council is authorized and directed
to endorse such acceptance of the beneficial interest on the declaration of
trust for and on behalf of the city as beneficiary thereunder. (2002 Code §
3.12.030; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Glenpool Cemetery Trust Authority: The city council does accept, for
and on behalf of the city, the beneficial interest in the public trust
designated as the Glenpool cemetery trust authority, provided in the
declaration of trust of said public trust dated July 6, 2010, and as amended,
for the purpose of creating, funding and operating a municipal cemetery as a
statutory public function, in all respects in accordance with the declaration
of trust and the applicable laws of the state of Oklahoma, and the city council
is authorized and directed to endorse such acceptance of beneficial interest on
the declaration of trust for and on behalf of the city as beneficiary
thereunder. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definition Of Contractual Services
2-2-2: Purchasing Authority
2-2-3: City Council Approval Required
2-2-4: Statutory Compliance
2-2-5: Competitive Bidding Requirements
2-2-6: Sale Of Surplus Property
2-2-1: DEFINITION OF CONTRACTUAL SERVICES:
"Contractual services", for the purpose of this chapter, means services
performed for the city by persons not in the employment of the city, and may
include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in connection
with such services under express or implied contract. (2002 Code § 3.04.010;
amd. 2013 Code)
2-2-2: PURCHASING AUTHORITY:
All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services for
the offices, departments and agencies of the city shall be made by the city
manager or by his/her designee. Payment of claims shall not be subject to prior
city council approval. A periodic report shall be prepared at least monthly,
listing all approved payments made for the preceding period. A copy of the
payment listing shall be forwarded to each member of the city council. All
payments shall be made on a regular schedule which shall assure payment of
bills in a timely manner. Exceptions to the regular payment schedule must be
authorized by the city manager or his/her designee. (Ord. 597, 6-2-2008; amd.
2013 Code)
2-2-3: CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Every contract for or purchase of supplies, materials, equipment or contractual
services shall conform to the annual budget as approved by the city council;
and under no circumstances may such contract or purchase be made for items not
contained in the annual budget which cost more than thirty-five thousand
dollars ($35,000) without first obtaining the approval of the city council. The
discretionary spending limit may from time to time be increased or decreased by
action of the city council. (2002 Code § 3.04.030; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 799, 2-
7-2022)
2-2-4: STATUTORY COMPLIANCE:
Except as provided otherwise by ordinance, all purchases of supplies,
materials, equipment or contractual services by the city for any purpose shall
conform to all Oklahoma constitutional and statutory requirements, to include,
without limitation:
   A.   The constitutional debt limitation contained in article 10, section 26
of the Oklahoma constitution.
   B.   The prohibition against spending for other than municipal purposes in
article 10, section 14 of the Oklahoma constitution.
   C.   Certification by the city finance director/treasurer of sufficient
unencumbered funds and entry of the purchases against the corresponding
appropriation, as required by 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 310.1.
   D.   Adoption by sections
2-2-2 and
2-2-3 of this chapter of a payment of claims and invoices procedure that
ensures adequate informal controls against unauthorized or illegal payment of
invoices or claims, as permitted by 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 310.1 and 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 17-102.
   E.   Maintenance by the finance director/treasurer of a record, in the form
prescribed by the state auditor and inspector, making an exact account of all
appropriations made as required by 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 310.2.
   F.   Accounting for unencumbered balances at the close of each fiscal year,
as required by 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 310.4.
   G.   The authorization of blank purchase orders, as provided by 62 Oklahoma
Statutes section 310.8. (2013 Code)
2-2-5: COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
All public construction contracts, as defined in 61 Oklahoma Statutes section
102, shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder by open competitive
bidding after solicitation for sealed bids. Threshold monetary limits for such
public construction contracts, exemptions from the competitive bidding
requirement, delegation of authority to approve change orders, the application
of such requirements to public trust contracts, and bid solicitation, opening
and award procedures shall conform in all respects to the public competitive
bidding act at 61 Oklahoma Statutes section 101 et seq., and 60 Oklahoma
Statutes section 176(H). (2013 Code)
2-2-6: SALE OF SURPLUS PROPERTY:
   A.   General Authority: The city manager may sell or issue authorizations
for the sale or disposal of surplus or obsolete supplies, materials and
equipment, subject to the provisions of state law and this article.
   B.   When Council Action Required: No surplus or obsolete supplies,
materials or equipment of a value of more than fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) may be sold or donated as authorized under state statutes until
the council shall have declared them obsolete or surplus.
   C.   When Competitive Bidding Required:
      1.   Before the city manager sells or disposes of any surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials or equipment, except as otherwise provided in subsection D,
he shall advertise in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or give
notice in such other manner as he deems necessary to adequately reach
prospective buyers. Selling or disposal of any surplus or obsolete supplies,
materials, or equipment shall be allowed as follows:
         a.   Sealed Bid: The city manager may authorize the sale through
sealed bidding. All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a
designated time and place, except when the sale is by auction. The city manager
may repeatedly reject all bids and advertise or give notice again. He may sell
such supplies, materials, or equipment only to the highest responsible bidder
for cash. In case of a tie, he may sell to either of the bidders tying, or may
divide the sale among two (2) or more tying, always selling to the highest
responsible bidder or bidders for cash.
         b.   Auction: The city manager may authorize the sale through city run
auctions, local auctions, internet auctions, or other electronic means.
Advertisement shall provide the listings of where the items are available for
viewing and bidding by prospective buyers.
         c.   Third Party Contract: The city manager may transfer property,
either specialized or not suitable for general public use, to a third-party
agent under contract with the city to sell specialty surplus, obsolete
supplies, materials or equipment. Upon the property being transferred to a
third party agent, the agent shall be responsible for advertising and reaching
prospective buyers according to the terms of the contract.
      2.   The Council, upon majority vote of its members, may waive the
requirement for competitive bidding for the sale of surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials or equipment.
   D.   When Competitive Bidding Not Required: The city manager may sell or
dispose of the following without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
      1.   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment the total
value of which does not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) in a single
transaction.
      2.   Supplies, materials, or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the city for the same.
      3.   Surplus supplies, materials, or equipment pursuant to an agreement
approved by the city council and providing for due consideration. (2002 Code §
3.04.060; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 819, 1-2-2024)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES TAX
SECTION:
2-3A-1: Short Title
2-3A-2: Definitions
2-3A-3: Sales Taxes Imposed; Rates; Effective Dates; Purposes
2-3A-4: Subsisting State Permits
2-3A-5: Classification Of Taxpayers
2-3A-6: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
2-3A-7: Tax Due Date
2-3A-8: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
2-3A-9: Collection By Vendors
2-3A-10: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
2-3A-11: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
2-3A-12: Fraudulent Returns
2-3A-13: Enforcement Of Payment
2-3A-14: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
2-3A-15: Records Confidential
2-3A-16: Amendments
2-3A-17: Provisions Cumulative
2-3A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF GLENPOOL SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. (2002 Code § 3.08.010)
2-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Definitions Generally: The definitions of words, terms and phrases
contained in the Oklahoma sales tax code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes article 13, as
amended, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
   B.   Tax Collector Defined: The term "tax collector", as used in this
article, means the finance department of the city or the official agency of the
state duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law and to
administer the collection of the tax levied by this article. (Ord. 457, 1-2-
2001; amd. 2013 Code)
2-3A-3: SALES TAXES IMPOSED; RATES; EFFECTIVE DATES; PURPOSES:
The following city sales taxes in the total amount of five and one-tenth
percent (5.1%) are and/or shall be imposed and effective as indicated, unless
otherwise extended, amended or repealed by a vote of the people. Said taxes
have been approved by a majority of the registered voters of the city voting on
same in elections conducted in the manner prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 16-112, and any amendments thereto, or its predecessor as applicable.
Ordinance 40 became effective on February 18, 1972, levying a sales tax of two
percent (2.0%), and shall remain in effect thereafter until such time as this
tax is repealed by a vote of the electors of the city at an election held for
such purpose. The purpose of said two percent (2.0%) tax is to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the city of
Glenpool, incorporated as the city of Glenpool by resolution 5779, adopted by
the city board on May 7, 1979.
Ordinance 176 became effective on October 1, 1972, levying a sales tax of one
percent (1.0%), and shall remain in effect thereafter until such time as this
tax is repealed by a vote of the electors of the city at an election held for
such purpose. The purpose of said one percent (1.0%) tax is to provide revenues
for the purpose of placing such revenues in the sinking fund of the city to be
used to pay the principal and interest requirements on general obligation bonds
of the city, with the surplus of such one percent (1.0%) sales tax, after
satisfaction of such sinking fund requirements, to be retained in the general
fund of the city to be used for any lawful purpose.
The foregoing ordinances 40 and 176 established the previously codified three
percent (3.0%) sales tax upon all taxable sales, for the combined purpose of
providing revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government
of the city. (2002 Code §§ 3.08.060, 3.08.070)
Ordinance 457 became effective April 1, 2001, levying an additional sales tax
of one percent (1.0%) for a period of twenty (20) years from April 1, 2001 to
and including March 31, 2021. The purpose of the one percent (1.0%) tax is to
provide revenue for the purposes of acquiring, constructing, equipping,
operating and/or maintaining capital improvements and/or to be applied or
pledged toward the payment of principal and interest on any legal indebtedness,
including refunding indebtedness, incurred by or on behalf of the city for such
purposes; provided, however, that after making provision in any calendar year
for payment of all principal and interest required to be paid during such
calendar year on any legal indebtedness, including refunding indebtedness, so
incurred by or on behalf of the city for such purposes the balance of the net
revenues derived from the tax levied shall be used for acquiring, constructing,
equipping, operating and/or maintaining any capital improvements by or on
behalf of the city and/or be applied or pledged toward the payment of principal
and interest on any legal indebtedness, including refunding indebtedness,
incurred by or on behalf of the city for such purposes. (2002 Code §§ 3.08.060,
3.08.070; amd. Ord. 457, 1-2-2001; 2013 Code)
Ordinance 717 became effective July 1, 2016, levying an additional sales tax of
fifty five hundredths of one percent (0.55%) and shall remain in effect
thereafter until such time as this tax is repealed by a vote of the electors of
the city at an election held for such purpose. The purpose of the fifty five
hundredths of one percent (0.55%) tax is to provide revenues to be placed in a
separate, special fund to be used to fund the staffing of additional police and
firefighting personnel of the city. Such revenues shall supplement, not
supplant, existing and future budgetary appropriations from the city's general
fund for police and fire operations. (Ord. 717, 3-7-2016)
Ordinance 715 became effective January 1, 2017, levying an additional sales tax
of twenty nine hundredths of one percent (0.29%) and shall remain in effect
thereafter until such time as this tax is repealed by a vote of the electors of
the city at an election held for such purpose or upon the expiration of twenty
(20) years from the effective date of January 1, 2017 to and including December
31, 2036, whichever occurs sooner. The purpose of the twenty nine hundredths of
one percent (0.29%) tax is to provide revenues to be placed in a separate,
special fund to be used to fund capital improvements pertaining to road and
street improvements, water and wastewater system improvements, storm sewer
improvements, acquisition of parks maintenance equipment, improvements to
public park lands and facilities, and promoting economic development all within
said city, and/or to be applied or pledged toward the payment of principal and
interest on any indebtedness, including refunding indebtedness, incurred by or
on behalf of said city for such purposes, including payment of the costs of
issuance of such indebtedness. (Ord. 715, 2-1-2016)
Ordinance 716 became effective January 1, 2017, levying an additional sales tax
of twenty six hundredths of one percent (0.26%) and shall remain in effect
thereafter until such time as this tax is repealed by a vote of the electors of
the city at an election held for such purpose or upon the expiration of twenty
(20) years from the effective date of January 1, 2017 to and including December
31, 2036, whichever occurs sooner. The purpose of the twenty six hundredths of
one percent (0.26%) tax is to provide revenues to be placed in a separate,
special fund to be used to fund capital improvements pertaining to police and
fire equipment and vehicles, system improvements to police and fire
communications equipment and infrastructure, and police and fire facilities
within said city, and/or to be applied or pledged toward the payment of
principal and interest on any indebtedness, including refunding indebtedness,
incurred by or on behalf of said city for such purpose, including payment of
the costs of issuance of such indebtedness. Such revenues shall supplement, not
supplant, existing and future budgetary appropriations from the city's general
fund for police and fire operations. (Ord. 716, 2-1-2016)
Ordinance 776 became effective April 1, 2021, levying an additional sales tax
of one percent (1.00%) and shall remain in effect thereafter until such time as
the tax is repealed by a vote of the electors of the City at an election held
for such purpose or upon the expiration of twenty (20) years from the effective
date of April 1, 2021, whichever occurs sooner; provided that, if the proceeds
of any sales tax hereby levied are being used by the City of Glenpool for the
purpose of retiring indebtedness incurred by the City or by a public trust of
which the City is a beneficiary for the specific purpose for which the sales
tax was imposed, the sales tax shall not be repealed until such time as the
indebtedness is retired. The purpose of this tax is to provide revenue for the
purposes of acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating and/or maintaining
capital improvements and/or to be applied or pledged toward the payment of
principal and interest on any legal indebtedness, including refunding
indebtedness, incurred by or on behalf of the City for such purposes. (Ord.
776, 6-1-2020)
2-3A-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purposes of
this article, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional city permit for the same purpose. (Ord. 457, 1-2-
2001)
2-3A-5: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma sales tax
code. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001)
2-3A-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The city sales taxes shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds
of such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from such taxes
shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (2013 Code)
2-3A-7: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the Oklahoma sales
tax code. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001)
2-3A-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the
Oklahoma sales tax code.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the city sales tax by the tax
collector shall be the same as hereafter adopted by the agreement of the city
and the tax collector, in the collection of both the city sales tax and the
state sales tax. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
2-3A-9: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in the city to
collect from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this
article, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average
equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001)
   C.   A "vendor", as defined herein, who wilfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
article, or wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions hereof or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either
directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax
herein levied, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any
statement which infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the
consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or
in any manner whatsoever, shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of an
offense punishable as provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 201 et seq.,
section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
2-3A-10: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma sales tax code; and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by the Oklahoma sales tax code for collection of state sales
tax. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001)
2-3A-11: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217, as amended, and
section 1350 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the
amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases
of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this article.
Provided, that the failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this article
shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if the delinquency
continues for a period of five (5) days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim
to any discount allowed under this article.
   B.   Waiver: The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the city sales tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver or remittance
as applied in administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 220, as amended; and to accomplish the purposes of this
subsection, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001)
2-3A-12: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, any taxpayer who
wilfully fails or refuses to make reports and remittances herein required, or
makes any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or escaping
payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this article shall,
upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of an offense punishable as provided
in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 201 et seq., section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
2-3A-13: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001)
2-3A-14: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure and
under the same limitations of time as provided for administration of the state
sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, as amended, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this article. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001)
2-3A-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205, as
amended, of the Oklahoma sales tax code, and each subsection thereof, are
hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to
administration of the city sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (Ord. 457,
1-2-2001)
2-3A-16: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the city, by their approval of the sales tax ordinances from
which this article was derived, hereby authorize the city council, by
ordinances duly enacted, to make such administrative and technical changes or
additions in the method and manner of administering and enforcing this article
as may be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness; except, that neither
the rate of the tax herein provided, nor the term, nor the purpose of the tax
herein provided shall be changed without approval of the qualified electors of
the city as provided by law. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
2-3A-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative and in addition to any and
all taxing provisions of this code or city ordinances. (Ord. 457, 1-2-2001)
ARTICLE B. USE TAX
SECTION:
2-3B-1: Short Title
2-3B-2: Definitions
2-3B-3: Use Taxes Imposed; Subjects Of Taxation; Rates; Effective Dates;
Purposes
2-3B-4: Exemptions From Tax
2-3B-5: Purposes Of Revenues
2-3B-6: Subsisting State Permits
2-3B-7: Classification Of Taxpayers
2-3B-8: Tax Due Date
2-3B-9: Collection Of Tax
2-3B-10: Revoking Permits
2-3B-11: Remunerative Deductions
2-3B-12: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
2-3B-13: Fraudulent Returns
2-3B-14: Enforcement Of Payment
2-3B-15: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
2-3B-16: Records Confidential
2-3B-17: Provisions Cumulative
2-3B-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF GLENPOOL USE TAX
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001)
2-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this article. In addition thereto, the following words and terms
shall have the following meanings:
CITY: The city of Glenpool, Oklahoma.
TAX COLLECTOR: The finance department of the city or the official agency of the
state duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
2-3B-3: USE TAXES IMPOSED; SUBJECTS OF TAXATION; RATES; EFFECTIVE DATES;
PURPOSES:
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using
or otherwise consuming within the boundaries of the city of Glenpool tangible
personal property that is purchased outside the state of Oklahoma (that is, not
taxed by another in-state jurisdiction) and stored, used or otherwise consumed
within the boundaries of the city, an excise tax on such storage, use or other
consumption within the city of such property at the aggregate rate of five and
one-tenth percent (5.1%) of the purchase price of such property. The use tax
levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of such
property within the city and shall be assessed to only property that is
purchased outside Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied hereunder shall not
be levied against tangible personal property intended solely for use outside
the city, but which is stored in the city pending shipment outside the city or
which is temporarily retained in the city for the purpose of fabrication,
repair, testing, alteration, maintenance, or other service. Any person liable
for payment of the use tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local
or municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or services; provided,
that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have been due
if the taxes imposed by the city had been levied on the sale of such goods or
services. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001; amd. Ord. 726, 12-13-2016; Ord.
727, 12-13-2016)
Ordinance 465 became effective April 17, 2001, levying a use tax in the total
amount of four percent (4.0%) that corresponds to the sales taxes levied by
ordinances 40, 176, and 457, as identified in section
2-3A-3 of this chapter and shall be and remain in effect thereafter until such
time as ordinances 40, 176, and 457 levying and assessing the equivalent sales
tax shall be repealed by a vote of the electors of the city at an election held
for such purpose or otherwise expire in accordance with the provisions of the
respective sales tax ordinances. The use tax levied and assessed under this
ordinance shall be used to provide revenues for the support of the functions of
the municipal government of the city of Glenpool, and any and all revenues
derived hereunder may be expended by the governing body of the city for any
purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-
17-2001)
The fifty five hundredths of one percent (0.55%) use tax levied by ordinance
721, took effect on July 1, 2016, being the same date that the fifty five
hundredths of one percent (0.55%) sales tax levied in accordance with city of
Glenpool ordinance 717 went into effect and being the first day of a calendar
quarter, and shall be and remain in effect thereafter until such time as
ordinance 717, levying and assessing the equivalent sales tax, is repealed by a
vote of the electors of the city at an election held for such purpose. Pursuant
to 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 2701, the use tax levied and assessed under
this ordinance shall be used by the city of Glenpool for such general and
special purposes of municipal government as the Oklahoma legislature may levy
and collect for purposes of state government, subject to any applicable
statutory limitations or exemptions. (Ord. 721, 5-16-2016)
The twenty nine hundredths of one percent (0.29%) use tax levied by ordinance
727, took effect on January 1, 2017, being the same date that the twenty nine
hundredths of one percent (0.29%) sales tax levied in accordance with city of
Glenpool ordinance 715 went into effect and being the first day of a calendar
quarter, and shall be and remain in effect thereafter until such time as
ordinance 715, levying and assessing the equivalent sales tax, is repealed by a
vote of the electors of the city at an election held for such purpose or upon
the expiration of twenty (20) years from the effective date of January 1, 2017
to and including December 31, 2036, whichever occurs sooner. Pursuant to 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 2701, the use tax levied and assessed under this
ordinance shall be used by the city of Glenpool for such general and special
purposes of municipal government as the Oklahoma legislature may levy and
collect for purposes of state government, subject to any applicable statutory
limitations or exemptions. (Ord. 727, 12-13-2016)
The twenty six hundredths of one percent (0.26%) use tax levied by ordinance
726, took effect on January 1, 2017, being the same date that the twenty six
hundredths of one percent (0.26%) sales tax levied in accordance with city of
Glenpool ordinance 716 went into effect and being the first day of a calendar
quarter, and shall be and remain in effect thereafter until such time as
ordinance 716, levying and assessing the equivalent sales tax, is repealed by a
vote of the electors of the city at an election held for such purpose or upon
the expiration of twenty (20) years from the effective date of January 1, 2017
to and including December 31, 2036, whichever occurs sooner. Pursuant to 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 2701, the use tax levied and assessed under this
ordinance shall be used by the city of Glenpool for such general and special
purposes of municipal government as the Oklahoma legislature may levy and
collect for purposes of state government, subject to any applicable statutory
limitations or exemptions. (Ord. 726, 12-13-2016)
2-3B-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
The provisions of this article shall not apply:
   A.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible personal property
brought into the city by a nonresident individual visiting in the city for his
or her personal use or enjoyment while within the city;
   B.   In respect to the use of tangible personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   C.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property on
which a tax equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma use tax
code and this article has been paid by the person using such tangible personal
property in the city, whether such tax was levied under the laws of Oklahoma or
some other state or municipality of the United States. If any article of
tangible personal property has already been subjected to a tax by Oklahoma or
any other state or municipality in respect to its sale or use, in an amount
less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma use tax code and this article,
the provisions of this article shall also apply thereto by a rate measured by
the difference only between the rate provided by both the Oklahoma use tax code
and this article, and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use
was computed. Provided, that no credit shall be given for taxes paid in another
state or municipality if that state or municipality does not grant like credit
for taxes paid in Oklahoma and the city;
   D.   In respect to the use of tangible personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under article A of this chapter;
   E.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
brought into the city by an individual with intent to become a resident of the
city where such personal property is for such individual's personal use or
enjoyment;
   F.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property used
or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads;
   G.   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into the
city for feeding or breeding purposes, and which are later resold. (Ord. 465,
4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
2-3B-5: PURPOSES OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the city, and any and all revenues derived
hereunder may be expended by the city council for any purpose for which funds
may be lawfully expended as authorized. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001)
2-3B-6: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the tax commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are, for the purpose of this article,
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional city permit for the same purpose. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-
2001)
2-3B-7: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be prescribed by state law. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001; amd.
2013 Code)
2-3B-8: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the Oklahoma use tax
code. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001)
2-3B-9: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Places Of Business Both Within And Without State: Except as provided in
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1376, providing an exemption for certain printing
activities, every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without the state of Oklahoma, and making sales of tangible personal
property from a place of business outside this state for use in the city shall,
at the time of making such sales, collect the use tax levied by this article
from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner
and form prescribed by the tax commission, if the tax commission shall, by
regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the
tax commission the names and addresses of all his agents operating in the city
and location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other
places of business in the city. The retailer or vendor shall not collect the
use tax levied by section
2-3B-3 of this article from a purchaser who is a holder of a direct payment
permit issued pursuant to 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1364.1. (Ord. 465, 4-17-
2001, eff. 4-17-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Place Of Business Not Within State Or Both Within And Without State:
The tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a
place of business within this state but who makes sales of tangible personal
property for use in the city and by the out of state place of business of any
retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and without
Oklahoma and making sales of tangible personal property at such out of state
place of business for use in the city. Such retailer or vendor may be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such taxes by the tax commission in such
manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe.
When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect
the tax upon all tangible personal property sold to his knowledge for use
within the city. Such authority and permit may be canceled when, at any time,
the tax commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected
from the person using such property in the city. Provided, however, that in all
instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the purchaser
within the city by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's or vendor's
vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales or
transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable municipal sales tax at
the point of delivery, and the tax shall be collected and reported under the
taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-
17-2001)
2-3B-10: REVOKING PERMITS:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any orders, rules or regulations of the tax
commission, the tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order, revoke the use tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel said corporation's license to do business in
this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has
complied with the obligations under this article, the Oklahoma use tax code, or
any orders, rules or regulations of the tax commission. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001,
eff. 4-17-2001)
2-3B-11: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code, and
remittances of the tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
(Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001)
2-3B-12: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted
and made a part of this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in
the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in
cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this article.
Provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by
this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor
shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this article. (Ord. 465,
4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty, or any
portion thereof, accruing by reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay
the municipal tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for said waiver or remittance as applied in the administration of the
state use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and to accomplish
the purposes of this subsection, the applicable provisions of said section 220
are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (Ord. 465, 4-
17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
2-3B-13: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, any taxpayer who
wilfully fails or refuses to make reports and remittances herein required, or
makes any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or escaping
payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this article, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of an offense punishable as provided
in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 201 et seq., section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
2-3B-14: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (Ord. 465, 4-17-
2001, eff. 4-17-2001)
2-3B-15: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the municipal use tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure
and under the same limitations of time as provided for the administration of
the state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001)
2-3B-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the municipal use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 205, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to the administration of the municipal use
tax as is herein set forth in full. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001; amd.
2013 Code)
2-3B-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the city. (Ord. 465, 4-17-2001, eff. 4-17-2001)
ARTICLE C. HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
SECTION:
2-3C-1: Definitions
2-3C-2: Tax Levied; Rate
2-3C-3: Exemptions From Tax
2-3C-4: Operator Duties
2-3C-5: Bond Requirements
2-3C-6: Assessment And Determination Of Tax
2-3C-7: Delinquent Payment Penalty
2-3C-8: Refunds
2-3C-9: Notices
2-3C-10: Remedies Exclusive
2-3C-11: Powers Of City Council
2-3C-12: Certificates
2-3C-13: Use Of Funds; Discounts
2-3C-14: Records Confidential
2-3C-15: Criminal Penalties
2-3C-16: Civil Remedies
2-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
HOTEL: Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other facility in
which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations, and in
which five (5) or more rooms are used for the accommodation of such occupant,
whether such rooms are in one or several structures. The term shall include
hotels, apartmental hotels, motels, tourist courts, lodging houses, inns,
rooming houses, and apartments not occupied by "permanent residents", as said
term is defined in this section. The term shall not include hospitals,
sanatoriums or nursing homes.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any
room or rooms in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the
furnishings or the services and accommodations accompanying the use and
possession of the room or rooms.
OCCUPANT: The person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the
right to the use or possession, of any room or rooms in a hotel under any
lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel within the city, including, but not
limited to, the owner, proprietor, manager, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in
possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any occupant who has or shall have the right of occupancy
of any room or rooms in a hotel and/or motel for at least thirty (30)
consecutive days during the current calendar year or preceding year.
PLACE OF ASSEMBLY: A room or space which is occupied by persons and which is
used for educational or amusement purposes and shall include: dance halls;
cabarets; nightclubs; restaurants; any room or space for public or private
banquets, feasts, socials, card parties or weddings; lodge and meeting halls or
rooms; skating rinks; gymnasiums; swimming pools; billiard, bowling and table
tennis rooms; halls; rooms used for public or private catering purposes;
funeral parlors; markets; recreational rooms; concert halls; broadcasting
studios; and all other places of similar use and occupancy.
RENT: The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
RETURN: Any report filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
ROOM: Any room or suite of rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel
which is available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other
than as a "place of assembly", as defined in this section.
TAX: The tax levied pursuant to this article. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-2: TAX LEVIED; RATE:
There is hereby levied an excise tax of five percent (5%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room
or rooms in a hotel in the city; except, that the tax shall not be imposed
where the rent is less than the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per day. The tax
rate shall become effective September 15, 2007. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   Entities Exempt: The following shall be exempt from the tax levied in
this article:
      1.   Permanent residents.
      2.   The United States government or any agency or division thereof.
      3.   The state of Oklahoma or any political subdivision thereof.
      4.   As prescribed by the Oklahoma tax commission.
   B.   Certificate Of Exemption Required: Anyone otherwise claiming to be
exempt from the tax must present to the lodging facility a certificate of
exemption. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-4: OPERATOR DUTIES:
   A.   Designate Tax On Bills: The operator shall separately designate, charge
and show the tax on all bills, statements, receipts or any other evidence of
charge or payment of rent for occupancy issued or delivered by the operator. In
the absence of a certificate of exemption as specified in section
2-3C-3 of this article, it shall be presumed that the rent on all occupancies
is taxable, and the burden of proof shall be on the operator.
   B.   Collect Tax: The operator shall be responsible for the collection of
the tax from the occupant and shall be liable to the city for the tax which
shall be held in trust by the operator until paid to the city. The operator
shall join the city as a party to any action brought by the operator to enforce
collection of the tax.
   C.   Records Kept: Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and
of all rent paid, charged, or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon in
such form as the city manager or his designee may, by regulation, require. Such
records shall be available for inspection and examination at any time upon
demand by the city manager, or his designee, or a duly authorized agent or
employee of the city and shall be preserved for a period of three (3) years.
   D.   Returns:
      1.   Every operator shall file with the city manager or his designee a
report of occupancy and of rents, and of the taxes payable thereon for the
period ending on the last day of each month following the effective date
hereof. Such return shall be filed within the first twenty (20) days after the
end of each such month.
      2.   Each operator shall further file with the city manager or his
designee, monthly, a copy of his completed Oklahoma state sales tax form.
      3.   The form of return shall be prescribed by the city manager or his
designee and shall contain such information as may be deemed necessary for the
proper administration of this article. The city manager or his designee may
require amended returns to be filed within twenty (20) days after notice and to
contain the information specified in the notice.
   E.   Payment Of Tax: At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of
rents, each operator shall pay to the city treasurer the taxes imposed by this
article upon the rents included in such return. All taxes not paid with a
timely return shall be delinquent. All the taxes for the period for which a
return is required to be filed shall be due from the operator and payable to
the city treasurer on or before the date fixed for the filing of the return for
such period without regard to whether a return is filed or whether the return
which is filed correctly shows the amount of rents and the taxes due thereon.
   F.   Interest: If any tax levied by this article becomes delinquent, the
person responsible and liable for such tax shall pay interest on such unpaid
tax at the rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per month on the unpaid
balance from the date of delinquency. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-5: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Where the city manager or his designee believes that any operator is about to
cease business, leave the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any
other similar reason the city manager or his designee deems it necessary in
order to protect revenues under this article, the city manager or his designee
may require such operator to file with the city a bond issued by a surety
company authorized to transact business in the state in such amount as the city
manager or his designee may fix to secure the payment of any tax or penalties
and interest due, or which may become due, from such operator. In the event
that the city manager or his designee determines that an operator is to file
such bond, the city manager or his designee shall give notice to such operator
specifying the amount of security required. The operator shall file such
security as a performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit within five (5)
days after the filing of such notice unless, within such five (5) days, the
operator shall request in writing a hearing before the city council, at which
time, the necessary proprietary and amount of the bond shall be determined by
the city council. Such determination shall be final, and there shall be
compliance within fifteen (15) days thereafter. In lieu of such bond, a cash or
securities escrow, in an amount and under terms approved by the city manager or
his designee, may be deposited with the city manager or his designee who may,
at any time after five (5) days' notice to the depositor, apply them to any tax
and/or any penalties due, and for that purpose, the securities may be sold at
private or public sale. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-6: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX:
   A.   If a return required by this article is not filed, or if a return when
filed is incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by
the city manager or his designee from such information as may be obtainable,
and if necessary, the tax may be estimated on the basis of external indices,
such as number of rooms, location, scale of rents, comparable rents, types of
accommodations and services, number of employees, or other factors. Written
notice of such assessments shall be given to the person liable for the
collection and payment of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and
irrevocably fix and determine the tax:
      1.   Unless the person against whom it is assessed shall apply in writing
to the city council within ninety (90) days after the city gives notice of such
assessment for a hearing; or
      2.   Unless the city manager or his designee decides to reassess the
same.
   B.   After such hearing, the city council shall give written notice of its
determination to the person against whom the tax is assessed, and such
determination shall be final. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-7: DELINQUENT PAYMENT PENALTY:
A five percent (5%) penalty shall be assessed for the payment of delinquent
taxes. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-8: REFUNDS:
   A.   Procedure: The city manager or his designee shall direct the refund or
credit of any tax erroneously, illegally or unconstitutionally collected if
written application to the city manager or his designee for such refund is made
within two (2) years from the date of payment thereof. For like causes, and in
the same period, a refund may be so made upon the initiative of the city
manager or his designee subject to existing limits on the authority of the city
manager or his designee as to amount. The city manager or his designee, in lieu
of any refund required to be made, may allow credit thereof on payments due
from the applicant. Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be
stated in writing. Such application may be made by the person who has collected
and paid such tax to the city treasurer; however, no refund of money shall be
made to the operator until the operator has repaid to the occupant the amount
for which the application for refund is made.
   B.   Determination And Hearing: Upon application for a refund, the city
manager or his designee may receive evidence with respect thereto and make such
investigation as is deemed necessary. After making a determination as to the
refund, the city manager or his designee shall give written notice thereof to
the applicant. Such determination shall be final unless the applicant, within
ninety (90) days after such notice, shall apply in writing to the city council
for a hearing. After such hearing, the city council shall give written notice
of its decision to the applicant. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-9: NOTICES:
Notices provided under this article shall be deemed to have been given when
such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the operator.
In the absence of written evidence received by the city to the contrary, the
last known address shall be presumed to be the address shown on the certificate
of registration as required by section
2-3C-12 of this article. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-10: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this article shall be the exclusive remedies available
to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this article. (Ord.
581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-11: POWERS OF CITY COUNCIL:
In addition to all other powers granted to the city council, the council,
through its representative, is hereby authorized:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
execution of this article and for the purposes hereof and to designate its
representative.
   B.   To extend, for cause shown, the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding sixty (60) days; and for cause shown, to waive, remit, or reduce
penalties or interest.
   C.   To delegate functions hereunder to authorized designees for the city.
   D.   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents.
   E.   To administer oaths and take affidavits concerning any matter or
proceeding under this article.
   F.   To subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the production
of books, papers and documents to secure information pertinent to the
performance and the enforcement of this article and to examine them in relation
thereto. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-12: CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Filing Certificate Of Registration: Every operator shall file with the
city manager or his designee a certificate of registration in a form prescribed
by the city manager or his designee within ten (10) days after the effective
date hereof, or in the case of operators commencing business or opening new
hotels after such effective date, within three (3) days after such commencement
or opening.
   B.   Issuance Of Certificate Of Authority: The city manager or his designee
shall, within five (5) days after such registration, issue, without charge, to
each operator a certificate of authority empowering such operator to collect
the tax from the occupant and duplicates thereof for each additional hotel.
Each certificate or duplicate shall state the hotel to which it is applicable.
   C.   Display Of Certificate Of Authority: The certificate of authority shall
be permanently displayed by the operator in such manner that it may be seen and
will come to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy.
   D.   Nontransferability Of Certificates: The certificates shall be
nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the
city manager or his designee upon the cessation of business at the hotel named
or upon its sale or transfer. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-13: USE OF FUNDS; DISCOUNTS:
   A.   All taxes collected pursuant to this article shall be set aside and
used exclusively to encourage, promote and foster economic development. As a
part of economic development, the funds may also be used to promote and foster
leisure, culture and tourism in the city and the cost of enforcing this
article.
   B.   The city is authorized to retain from the initial proceeds of the hotel
tax an amount equal to the costs of the election concerning this article and
borne by the city.
   C.   In order to remunerate an operator for keeping tax records, filing
reports, and remitting the tax when due, a discount, not to exceed one percent
(1%) of the current taxes due, may be allowed to the operator by agreement.
(Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
2-3C-14: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records file concerning the
administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared, and
in order to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section
205, and each subsection thereof and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and made fully effective and applicable to the administration of
this article as if herein set forth. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007; amd. 2013 Code)
2-3C-15: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
   A.   Any taxpayer who wilfully fails or refuses to make reports and
remittances herein required or makes any false and fraudulent report for the
purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed
guilty of an offense punishable as provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 201
et seq., section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code.
   B.   Any operator who fails: 1) to file a security bond as required; or 2)
to register or to display the certificate of registration; or 3) to separately
state the tax on the bill or to collect such tax from the occupant shall, upon
conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of an offense punishable as provided in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 201 et seq., section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007; amd. 2013 Code)
2-3C-16: CIVIL REMEDIES:
   A.   Whenever any operator, occupant or other person shall fail to collect
and/or pay over any tax, or to owe any tax, penalty or interest imposed by this
article as herein provided, the mayor may authorize the director of finance to
file notice of liens on behalf of the city against the real estate upon which
the hotel is located and/or against all franchises, property and rights to
property, whether real or personal, then belonging to or thereafter acquired by
the person owing the tax pursuant to 68 Oklahoma Statutes sections 2701 and
2704.
   B.   The liens shall, upon proper filing, attach to the real estate and/or
personal property then owned or thereafter acquired by the debtor, whether such
property is used by the debtor in the operation of business or is under the
authority of an assignee, trustee, or receiver for the benefit of creditors,
from the date such taxes are due and payable as allowed by 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 2704.
   C.   The city manager or his designee shall notify the person owing the tax
by personal service or by certified mail that the city will file such liens if
any delinquent lodging taxes, interest and/or penalties are not paid within
fifteen (15) days of receiving such notice.
   D.   The city council may also authorize the city attorney to institute an
action in person and in rem to enforce payment and collect any delinquent
lodging taxes, penalties and/or interest. (Ord. 581, 9-4-2007)
CHAPTER 4
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
2-4-1: Fee Schedule Adopted
2-4-1: FEE SCHEDULE ADOPTED:
Charges for the following inspection, utility hookup, license, application and
permit fees, along with a list of potential fines for development activities
undertaken without any applicable inspection, utility hookup, license, approved
application or permit required by any of title 10 (building and development),
title 11 (zoning), title 12 (subdivisions) of this code or by any other
applicable code or lawful requirement, as the same may be from time to time
adopted, amended, deleted or replaced, are expressly incorporated herein by
reference and shall be maintained on file in the offices of the city community
development department. The following list is meant to be suggestive only. The
requirements for development in the city and the corresponding charges, fees
and penalties, as may from time to time be amended by the city council, shall
be maintained in the community development department and shall be relied upon
as comprehensive. (Ord. 644, 2-7-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
   A.   One- and two-family residential new construction building permit and
related fees:
      1.   Building permit fee.
      2.   Zoning clearance.
      3.   Plan review.
      4.   Field inspection.
      5.   Water and wastewater impact.
      6.   Water tap.
      7.   Sewer tap.
      8.   Water service deposit.
      9.   Parks and recreation development.
      10.   State building permit.
   B.   Mobile/manufactured home installation building permit and related fees:
      1.   Building permit fee.
      2.   Zoning clearance.
      3.   Field inspection.
      4.   Water and wastewater impact.
      5.   Water tap.
      6.   Sewer tap.
      7.   Water service deposit.
      8.   Parks and recreation development.
      9.   State building permit.
   C.   Related residential building permits, fees and fines:
      1.   Remodeling:
         a.   Building permit fee.
         b.   Zoning clearance.
         c.   Plan check.
         d.   Field inspection.
         e.   State building permit.
      2.   Garage (detached):
         a.   Building permit fee.
         b.   Zoning clearance.
         c.   Plan check.
         d.   Field inspections.
         e.   State building permit.
      3.   Accessory building:
         a.   Building permit fee.
         b.   Zoning clearance.
         c.   Plan check.
         d.   Field inspections.
         e.   State building permit.
      4.   Patio covers or awnings (attached):
         a.   Building permit fee.
         b.   Zoning clearance.
         c.   Plan check.
         d.   Field inspections.
         e.   State building permit.
      5.   Swimming pools (inground):
         a.   Building permit fee.
         b.   Zoning clearance.
         c.   Plan check.
         d.   Field inspections.
         e.   State building permit.
      6.   Reroofing:
         a.   Building permit fee.
         b.   Field inspections.
         c.   State building permit.
      7.   Generally applicable:
         a.   Work started without a building permit (fine).
         b.   Miscellaneous field inspections.
         c.   Reinspection.
         d.   Missed inspection (fine).
   D.   Multi-family new construction building permit and related fees:
      1.   Building permit fee.
      2.   Zoning clearance.
      3.   Plan review.
      4.   Field inspections.
      5.   Water and wastewater impact.
      6.   Water tap.
      7.   Sewer tap.
      8.   Water service deposit.
      9.   Parks and recreation development.
      10.   State building permit.
   E.   Commercial and office new construction building permit and related
fees:
      1.   Building permit fee.
      2.   Zoning clearance.
      3.   Plan review.
      4.   Field inspections.
      5.   Water tap.
      6.   Sewer tap.
      7.   Water service deposit.
      8.   Park and recreation development.
      9.   Public infrastructure impact.
      10.   State building permit.
   F.   Commercial and office remodeling building permit and related fees:
      1.   Building permit fee.
      2.   Zoning clearance.
      3.   Plan review.
      4.   Field inspections.
   G.   Related commercial and office construction permits, fees and fines:
      1.   Water meter tap fees:
         a.   Three-fourths inch (3/4") meter.
         b.   One inch (1") meter.
         c.   One and one-half inch (11/2") meter.
         d.   Two inch (2") meter.
         e.   Temporary construction meter.
      2.   Sanitary sewer tap fees:
         a.   Four inches (4") in diameter.
         b.   Six inches (6") in diameter.
         c.   Eight inches (8") in diameter.
      3.   City mechanical, electrical and plumbing licenses:
         a.   Contractor (annual).
         b.   Journeyman (annual).
         c.   Apprentice (annual).
      4.   Miscellaneous commercial and office construction fees and fines:
         a.   Work started without a building permit (fine).
         b.   Miscellaneous field inspections.
         c.   Reinspection.
         d.   Missed inspection (fine).
   H.   Subdivision fees and charges:
      1.   Subdivision sketch plat.
      2.   Preliminary plat.
      3.   Final plat.
      4.   Resubmittal of correction plat.
      5.   Subdivision plat waiver.
      6.   Subdivision regulation waiver.
      7.   Change of access limits.
      8.   Request for annexation.
   I.   Site plan fees and charges:
      1.   Staff level review (up to 10 acres).
      2.   Planning commission review.
   J.   Lot splits:
      1.   Single or multiple split.
   K.   Zoning fees and charges:
      1.   Single-family residential.
      2.   Multi-family residential (including duplex).
      3.   Mobile home.
      4.   Office, commercial, industrial.
      5.   Multiple zoning district request.
      6.   Planned unit development (no zoning).
      7.   Planned unit development (minor amendment).
      8.   Planned unit development (abandonment).
      9.   Rezoning site signs.
   L.   Board of adjustment:
      1.   Request for variance.
      2.   Request for special exception.
   M.   Signage:
      1.   On premises ground mounted (up to 100 square feet).
      2.   On premises ground mounted (greater than 100 square feet).
      3.   On premises pole or ground mounted (greater than 30 feet in height).
      4.   Outdoor advertising billboard.
      5.   On premises banner.
      6.   Building wall mounted.
      7.   Projecting building wall mounted.
      8.   Temporary on site construction.
      9.   Building mounted awning (nonelectrical).
      10.   Temporary on site banner or portable sign (14 day).
      11.   Temporary on site banner or portable sign (30 day).
      12.   Permanent on site banner (office, commercial, industrial).
      13.   Temporary off site residential subdivision banner (30 day).
      14.   Temporary off site residential (30 day): directional, real estate,
or open house.
      15.   Residential garage sale.
      16.   Election: local, state, national.
      17.   Removing or rehanging existing sign.
      18.   Unified sign plan review and permit.
      19.   Illegally placed or nonpermitted sign (fine).
   N.   Miscellaneous sign related fees and fines:
      1.   Removing or rehanging existing sign.
      2.   Unified sign plan review and permit.
      3.   Illegally placed or nonpermitted sign (fine).
   O.   Engineering fees:
      1.   Subdivision site improvements.
      2.   Earth change.
      3.   Floodplain development.
      4.   Request for public street or alleyway closure.
      5.   Request for public easement closure.
      6.   Driveway/curb cut.
   P.   Miscellaneous community development permits and fees:
      1.   Certificate of compliance.
      2.   Certificate of occupancy.
      3.   Change in use or occupancy permit.
      4.   Building moving permit.
      5.   Nuisance complaint processing.
      6.   Nuisance abatement administration. (Ord. 644, 2-7-2011)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Fees Required For Certain Businesses
3-1-2: Payment Of License Fee; Issuance Of License; Expiration
3-1-3: Separate Licenses Required
3-1-4: Duplicate Licenses
3-1-5: Nontransferability Of License
3-1-6: Display Of License
3-1-7: Commercial Activity On Private Property
3-1-8: Revocation Of License
3-1-1: LICENSE FEES REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN BUSINESSES:
A license fee, as established by the city council, is required for every
person, firm, association, or corporation engaging in, exercising, or pursuing
any of the following businesses, professions, trades, occupations or privileges
in the city:
   A.   Itinerant shows, exhibitions, or entertainments (comedy, musical,
dramatic, or other) which charge admission; provided, that this shall not apply
to circuses, street fairs and carnivals, nor to shows, etc., given for the
benefit of education, or other nonprofit purposes.
   B.   Circuses.
   C.   Street fairs or carnivals (including all activities under their
auspices).
   D.   Ferris wheels, merry-go-rounds, small cars or similar apparatus, when
not under the auspices of a street fair, carnival, or circus.
   E.   Coin operated music or amusement device as defined by 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1501, which may be operated by penny coins.
   F.   For each coin operated vending device, as defined by 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1501, other than those which may be operated by penny coins.
(2002 Code § 5.04.010; amd. 2013 Code)
3-1-2: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, association, or corporation to
engage in, exercise, or pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation, or
privilege for which a license fee is required by section
3-1-1 of this chapter or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without
paying the license fee and securing and possessing a valid license therefor.
Upon making proper application to the city clerk, the payment of the license
fee, and fulfillment of any other condition which may be prescribed by law and/
or ordinance, the city clerk shall issue a license therefor.
   B.   Annual licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. When an annual
license is issued after December 31 for the remainder of the license year, the
license fee shall be one- half (1/2) of the established fee. (2002 Code §
5.04.020; amd. 2013 Code)
3-1-3: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
Every person, firm, association, or corporation who engages in, exercises, or
pursues a business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege for which a
license is required, at or from more than one place in the city, or who engages
in, exercises, or pursues more than one such business, profession, trade,
occupation, or privilege, shall pay the fee and secure a separate license for
each such place and/or for each such profession, trade, occupation or
privilege. (2002 Code § 5.04.030)
3-1-4: DUPLICATE LICENSES:
Whenever any license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business, profession,
trade, occupation, or privilege has been lost or destroyed without any wrongful
act or connivance by the holder, the city clerk, on application, shall issue a
duplicate license for the unexpired time of the original license. Before the
duplicate is issued, the original holder shall make and file with the city
clerk an affidavit that the license has not been transferred or given to
another person, that it has not been lost, destroyed or stolen through any
wrongful act, knowledge, or connivance by the original holder, and that, if
believed lost, the holder has made diligent search therefor and has not been
able to find it or learn of its whereabouts. The fee for every duplicate
license issued, payable to the city clerk, shall be as established by
resolution of the city council. (2002 Code § 5.04.070; amd. 2013 Code)
3-1-5: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
The assignment or transfer of licenses is not permitted in the city. (2002 Code
§ 5.04.060; amd. 2013 Code)
3-1-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his or her place of business or activity
where a person who has entered the place may readily see it or, if he or she
has no particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and
display it to any person who requests to see it. Provided that, in lieu of this
manner of displaying such licenses, when licenses are required for coin
operated music or amusement devices, vending machines, and similar devices and
equipment, the license may be placed on or attached to such device or equipment
in such position and manner that it will be clearly visible, and shall be so
placed or attached if the license so states on its face. It is unlawful to fail
or refuse to display the license as required in this section. (2002 Code §
5.04.040)
3-1-7: COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, including a civic or
religious organization, to sell, barter, trade or transfer any merchandise,
wearing apparel, or other personal property of any kind on or in any property
in the city without the consent of the owner or person in control of the
property. (2002 Code § 5.40.030; amd. 2013 Code)
3-1-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued by the city to any person, firm, association, or corporation
to engage in, exercise, or pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation,
or privilege, may be revoked by the city manager or city manager's designee for
the following reasons: a) that the licensee is engaging in, exercising, or
pursuing the business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege in such a
manner that he or she has created or is creating a public nuisance as defined
by 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1 and 2 1 ; or b) serious and repeated
violation of the law or ordinances. Provided that, valid licenses may be
revoked only when the business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege is
one which the city council has power to prohibit because of its nature or
because of the manner in which it is engaged, exercised, or pursued. (2002 Code
§ 5.04.050; amd. 2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6, chapter 5 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Expiration And Termination Of City-Issued License; Payment Of Occupation
Tax; Proration; Operation Without ABLE License And Payment Of Occupation Tax
Prohibited
3-2-4: Annual Report To State
3-2-5: Separated Premises; Passageways
3-2-6: Sales In Containers; Consumption Restrictions
3-2-7: Sale At Retail Stores
3-2-8: Location Restrictions
3-2-9: Certificate Of Compliance
3-2-10: Days And Hours Of Operation
3-2-11:    Retail Wine And Retail Spirits Operators Shall Not
3-2-12:    Age Restrictions On Employment And Consumption
3-2-13:    Selling On Credit; Dishonored Payments
3-2-14:    Giving Prizes And Inducements; Discrimination
3-2-15:    Violations And Penalties
 
Notes
  1. Article B, regulating the production and sale of "low-point beer" expired
  on September 30, 2018. On October 1, 2018, Oklahoma no longer recognized the
1 local regulation of low-point beer; chapter B was repealed in its entirety
  and removed from this code. Simultaneously, the designation of article A was
  removed and title 3, chapter 2 became the location of regulations on
  alcoholic beverage businesses operations in the city.
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the city to
preserve the public peace, safety, health, and good order thereof, and to aid
the enforcement of the policy of the state of Oklahoma as established by the
Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.  2  (Ord. 755, 9-17-2018)
 
Notes
  2. See title 6, chapter 1, article D of this code for a more comprehensive
2 description of offenses involving alcoholic beverages and applicable
  penalties.
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words, phrases and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them, and be construed in accordance with, such
definitions and construction as provided by 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
103, of the Oklahoma Beverage Control Act.
ABLE COMMISSION or ABLE: The Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement Commission.
ALCOHOL: Includes hydrated oxide of ethyl, ethyl alcohol, ethanol or spirits of
wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced. It does not include
wood alcohol or alcohol which has been denatured or produced as denatured in
accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those terms are defined
herein and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or not, containing
alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as a beverage by
human beings.
APPLICANT:
   a.   Any individual, legal or commercial business entity, or any individual
involved in any legal or commercial business entity allowed to hold any license
issued in accordance with the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act; and
   b.   Any individual, legal or commercial business entity or any individual
who is qualified as an applicant under this chapter for any such license and
who applies for payment of the occupation tax as provided in section
3-2-3 of this code.
BEER: Any beverage of alcohol by volume and obtained by the alcoholic
fermentation of an infusion or decoction of barley, or other grain, malt or
similar products. "Beer" may or may not contain hops or other vegetable
products. "Beer" includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer,
porter and other malt or brewed liquors, but does not include sake, known as
Japanese rice wine.
BEER KEG: Any manufacturer-sealed, single container that contains not less than
four (4) gallons of beer.
BRAND: Any word, name, group of letters, symbol or combination thereof, that is
adopted and used by a licensed manufacturer to identify a specific beer and to
distinguish that product from another beer.
BREWER: Includes any person who manufactures for human consumption by the use
of raw materials or other ingredients any beer upon which a license fee and a
tax are imposed by any law of this state and ordinance of the city.
BREWPUB: A licensed establishment operated on the premises of, or on premises
located contiguous to, a small brewer, as defined in this chapter, that
prepares and serves food and beverages, including alcoholic beverages, for on-
premises consumption.
CONVENIENCE STORE: Any person or entity primarily engaged in retailing a
limited range of general household items and groceries, with extended hours of
operation, whether or not engaged in retail sales of automotive fuels in
combination with such sales.
DISTILLER: Any person who produces spirits from any source or substance, or any
person who brews or makes mash, wort or wash, fit for distillation or for the
production of spirits (except a person making or using such material in the
authorized production of wine or beer, or the production of vinegar by
fermentation), or any person who by any process separates alcoholic spirits
from any fermented substance, or any person who, making or keeping mash, wort
or wash, has also in his or her possession or use a still.
DRUG STORE: A legal person primarily engaged in retailing prescription and non-
prescription drugs and medicines.
DUAL-STRENGTH BEER: A brand of beer that, prior to October 1, 2018, has been
sold and distributed in this state:
   a.   As a low-point beer pursuant to the Low-Point Beer Distribution Act in
effect prior to October 1, 2018; and
   b.   As strong beer pursuant to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act in effect
prior to October 1, 2018.
GROCERY STORE: A person primarily engaged in retailing a general line of food,
such as canned or frozen foods, fresh fruits and vegetables, and fresh and
prepared meats, fish and poultry.
HOTEL or MOTEL: An establishment which is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages
by the individual drink and which contains guestroom accommodations with
respect to which the predominant relationship existing between the occupants
thereof and the owner or operator of the establishment is that of innkeeper and
guest. For purposes of this section, the existence of other legal relationships
as between some occupants and the owner or operator thereof shall be
immaterial.
LICENSE: Any license issued by the state, acting through ABLE, in accordance
with the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, as codified at either title 37 or
title 37A of the Oklahoma statutes.
LICENSEE:
   a.   Any person holding a license issued by the state under the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act, and any agent, servant or employee of such licensee while
in the performance of any act or duty in connection with the licensed business
or on the licensed premises, regardless of when issued.
   b.   For purposes of this chapter, licensee also includes any person holding
a license issued by the City under title 3, chapter 2, of the city code prior
to October 1, 2018, and any agent, servant or employee of such licensee while
in the performance of any act or duty in connection with the licensed business
or on the licensed premises, regardless of when issued.
MANUFACTURER: A brewer, distiller, winemaker, rectifier or bottler of any
alcoholic beverage and its subsidiaries, affiliates and parent companies.
MANUFACTURER'S AGENT: A salaried or commissioned salesperson who is the agent
authorized to act on behalf of the manufacturer or non-resident seller in the
state.
MINI-BAR: A closed container, either refrigerated in whole or in part, or non-
refrigerated, and access to the interior of which is:
   a.   Restricted by means of a locking device which requires the use of a
key, magnetic card or similar device; or
   b.   Controlled at all times by the licensee.
MIXED BEVERAGE COOLER: Any beverage, by whatever name designated, consisting of
an alcoholic beverage and fruit or vegetable juice, fruit or vegetable
flavorings, dairy products or carbonated water containing more than one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) of alcohol measured by volume but not more than seven
percent (7%) alcohol by volume at sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) and which is
packaged in a container not larger than three hundred seventy-five (375)
milliliters. Such term shall include but not be limited to the beverage
popularly known as a "wine cooler".
MIXED BEVERAGES: One or more servings of a beverage composed in whole or part
of an alcoholic beverage in a sealed or unsealed container of any legal size
for consumption on the premises where served or sold by the holder of a mixed
beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, charitable event or special
event license.
OCCUPATION: As used in connection with "occupation tax" means the occupation of
engaging in a business that is under the jurisdiction of ABLE and is operating,
without limitation, as a retailer of spirits, mixed beverages, beer or wine, or
as a caterer, public event or special event licensee, bottle club,
manufacturer, wine and spirits wholesaler or beer distributor.
OCCUPATION TAX: For purposes of this chapter is the tax levied annually by the
City for the privilege of engaging in an business that is under the
jurisdiction of ABLE and is operating, without limitation, as a retailer of
spirits, mixed beverages, beer or wine, or as a caterer, public event or
special event licensee, bottle club, manufacturer, wine and spirits wholesaler
or beer distributor, not to exceed the state license fee for each respective
license; provided, the tax shall be levied only on such licensee who has a
principal place of business in the city, and as authorized by 37A Oklahoma
Statutes section 4-104.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any container of alcoholic beverage filled and stamped or
sealed by the manufacturer.
PACKAGE STORE: Any sole proprietor or partnership that qualifies to sell wine,
beer and/or spirits for off-premises consumption and that is not a grocery
store, convenience store or drug store, or other retail outlet that is
permitted to sell wine or beer, for off-premise consumption.
PATRON: Any person, customer or visitor or who is not a licensee or who is not
employed by a licensee but is or has recently been served as alcoholic beverage
for on-premises consumption.
PERSON: An individual, any type of partnership, corporation, association,
limited liability company or any individual involved in the legal structure of
any such business entity.
PREMISES: The grounds and all buildings and appurtenances pertaining to the
grounds including any adjacent premises if under the direct or indirect control
of the licensee and the rooms and equipment under the control of the licensee
and used in connection with or in furtherance of the business covered by a
license.
PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS: For purposes of this chapter, means any single,
definable and physically segregated location where operations subject to
licensure under title 37A of the Oklahoma Statutes are, or may be, undertaken.
PRIVATE EVENT: A social gathering or event attended by invited guests who share
a common cause, membership, business or task and have a prior established
relationship. For purposes of this definition, advertisement for general public
attendance or sales of tickets to the general public shall not constitute a
private event.
PUBLIC EVENT: Any event that can be attended by the general public.
RECTIFIER: Any person who rectifies, purifies or refines spirits or wines by
any process (other than by original and continuous distillation, or original
and continuous processing, from mash, wort, wash or other substance, through
continuous closed vessels and pipes, until the production thereof is complete),
and any person who, without rectifying, purifying or refining spirits, shall by
mixing (except for immediate consumption on the premises where mixed) such
spirits, wine or other liquor with any material, manufactures any spurious,
imitation or compound liquors for sale, under the name of whiskey, brandy, rum,
gin, wine, spirits, cordials or any other name.
REGULATION or RULE: A formal rule of general application promulgated by the
ABLE Commission or by the City.
RESTAURANT: An establishment that is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by
the individual drink for on-premises consumption and where food is prepared and
sold for immediate consumption on the premises.
RETAIL CONTAINER FOR SPIRITS AND WINES: An original package of any capacity
approved by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
RETAILER: A package store, grocery store, convenience store or drug store
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for off-premise consumption pursuant to a
retail spirits license, retail wine license or retail beer license.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether as
principal, proprietor or as an agent, servant or employee. The term "sale" is
also declared to be and include the use or consumption in this state of any
alcoholic beverage obtained within or imported from without this state, upon
which the excise tax levied by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act has not been
paid or exempted.
SMALL BREWER: A brewer who manufactures less than twenty-five thousand (25,000)
barrels of beer annually pursuant to a validly issued small brewer license
hereunder.
SMALL FARM WINE: A wine that is produced by a small farm winery with seventy-
five percent (75%) or more Oklahoma-grown grapes, berries, other fruits, honey
or vegetables.
SMALL FARM WINERY: A wine-making establishment that does not annually produce
for sale more than fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons of wine as reported on the
United States Department of the Treasury, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade
Bureau, Report of Wine Premises Operations.
SPARKLING WINE: Champagne or any artificially carbonated wine.
SPECIAL EVENT: An entertainment, recreation or marketing event that occurs at a
single location on an irregular basis and at which alcoholic beverages are
sold.
SPIRITS: Any beverage other than wine or beer, which contains more than one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol measured by volume, and obtained by
distillation, whether or not mixed with other substances in solution and
includes those products known as whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, vodka, liqueurs,
cordials and fortified wines and similar compounds, but shall not include any
alcohol liquid completely denatured in accordance with the acts of Congress and
regulations pursuant thereto.
STRONG BEER: Beer which, prior to October 1, 2018, was distributed pursuant to
the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37 Oklahoma Statutes sections 501
et seq.
TERRITORY: A geographic region with a specified boundary.
WINE: Includes any beverage containing more than one-half of one percent (1/
2 of 1%) alcohol by volume and not more than twenty-four percent (24%) alcohol
by volume at sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) obtained by the fermentation of
the natural contents of fruits, vegetables, honey, milk or other products
containing sugar, whether or not other ingredients are added, and includes
vermouth and sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
WINE AND SPIRITS WHOLESALER or WINE AND SPIRITS DISTRIBUTOR: Includes any sole
proprietorship or partnership licensed to distribute wine and spirits in the
state. The term "wholesaler", as used in this act, shall be construed to refer
to a wine and spirits wholesaler.
(Ord. 755, 9-17-2018)
3-2-3: EXPIRATION AND TERMINATION OF CITY-ISSUED LICENSE; PAYMENT OF OCCUPATION
TAX; PRORATION; OPERATION WITHOUT ABLE LICENSE AND PAYMENT OF OCCUPATION TAX
PROHIBITED:
   A.   Expiration And Termination Of City-Issued Licenses:
      1.   Low-Point Beer Licenses Issued Prior To June 30, 2018 (Fiscal Year
2017-2018): Licenses for the retail sale of low-point beer issued during fiscal
year 2017-2018, and which expired on June 30, 2018, are hereby deemed to remain
valid and in force through September 30, 2018, without the payment of an
additional fee for licensure during the interim. Such licenses shall expire on
September 30, 2018, and will not be reissued. Former low-point beer licensees
at that time shall be responsible for the payment of an annual license fee to
ABLE for a newly designated "retail beer license," and for payment of such
annual occupation tax to the City of Glenpool as shall be imposed by the City
Council on the retail sale of beer in the City in accordance with this chapter.
      2.   All Other Licenses Issued Between July 1, 2018, And September 30,
2018 (The "Interim"): License fees paid to the City for all alcoholic beverage
licenses other than low-point beer and licenses issued from July 1, 2018,
through September 30, 2018, shall be applied to the cost of occupation taxes
collected by the City, commencing on October 1, 2018. Such licenses shall
expire on September 30, 2018, and will not be reissued. Licensees at that time
shall be responsible for payment of the applicable annual license fee to ABLE
and for payment of the balance, if any, of occupation tax to the City of
Glenpool after deducting therefrom the amount paid for any City-issued license
purchased during the interim.
   B.   Occupation Tax: As of October 1, 2018, the City is authorized by 37A
Oklahoma Statutes section 4-104, the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, to levy an
annual occupation tax for the privilege of operating as a beer, wine or spirits
retailer; mixed beverage sales establishment (including hotel/motel or
restaurant that sells alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption);
caterer; public event or special event licensee; bottle club; manufacturer of
any alcoholic beverage; wine and spirits wholesaler; beer distributor; and any
other person engaged in the manufacture, distribution, sales and/or service of
alcoholic beverages with a principal place of business within city limits.
      1.   Such occupation taxes shall be adopted by the city council and
administered by the city clerk.
      2.   No occupation tax may exceed the state license fee for the
corresponding ABLE license.
      3.   Occupation taxes may be levied by the City only upon such licensee
that has a principal place of business in the City.
      4.   This subsection does not give the city any right to determine or
regulate the issuance of any license, except as specifically provided for in
subsection A of this section, as the ABLE Commission shall have exclusive
authority as to issuance and regulation of all licenses.
   C.   Schedule Of Occupation Tax Levies:
1.   Brewer licensee                                   $1,250.00
2.   Small brewer licensee                             $125.00
3.   Distiller licensee                                $3,125.00
4.   Winemaker licensee                                $625.00
5.   Small farm winery licensee                        $75.00
6.   Rectifier licensee                                $3,125.00
7.   Wine and spirits wholesaler licensee              $3,000.00
8.   Beer distributor licensee                         $750.00
9.   Package stores, defined to include retail sales outlets qualified to
sell wine, beer and spirits for off-premises consumption, will require all
three licenses, while grocery stores, convenience stores and drug stores
will need only retail wine and/or retail beer licenses.
   a.   Retail spirits licensee for city over 5,000 $905.00
population
   b.   Retail wine licensee                        $1,000.00
   c.   Retail beer licensee                        $500.00
10.   Mixed beverage licensee                           
   a.   Initial tax                                 $1,005.00
   b.   Renewal tax                                 $905.00
11.   Mixed beverage/caterer combination licensee      $1,250.00
12.   On premises beer and wine licensee                
   a.   Initial tax                                 $500.00
   b.   Renewal tax                                 $450.00
13.   Caterer licensee                                          
   a.   Initial tax                                         $1,005.00
   b.   Renewal tax                                         $905.00
14.   Annual special event licensee                            $55.00
15.   Quarterly special event licensee                         $55.00
16.   Hotel beverage licensee                                   
   a.   Initial tax                                         $1,005.00
   b.   Renewal tax                                         $905.00
17.   Agent licensee                                           $55.00
18.   Employee licensee (payment required only every two years)$30.00
19.   Industrial licensee                                      $23.00
20.   Bonded warehouse licensee                                $190.00
21.   Storage licensee                                         $23.00
22.   Non-resident seller or manufacturer's licensee           $750.00
23.   Manufacturer's agent licensee                            $55.00
24.   Sacramental wine supplier licensee                       $100.00
25.   Charitable auction licensee                              $1.00
 
26.   Charitable alcoholic beverage license$55.00
27.   Winemaker self-distribution licensee $750.00
28.   Annual public event licensee         $1,005.00
29.   One-time public event licensee       $255.00
30.   Small brewer self-distribution licens$750.00
31.   Brewpub licensee                     $1,005.00
32.   Brewpub self-distribution licensee   $750.00
 
   D.   Payment of occupation taxes for fiscal year 2018-2019, and following,
shall be prorated as follows:
      1.   Occupation taxes paid between October 1, 2018, and December 31,
2018, shall be charged an amount equivalent to seventy-five percent (75%) of
the cost for the corresponding annual license issued by the ABLE Commission.
      2.   Occupation taxes paid between January 1, 2019, and June 30, 2019,
shall be charged an amount equivalent to fifty percent (50%) of the cost for
the corresponding annual license issued by the ABLE Commission.
      3.   Unless and until amended by the city council or by statute,
occupation taxes for fiscal years subsequent to fiscal year 2018-2019 shall be
equivalent to one hundred percent (100%) of the cost for the corresponding
annual license issued by the ABLE Commission, provided that occupation taxes
owed and paid after December 31 of any such fiscal year shall be an amount
equivalent to fifty percent (50%) of the cost for the corresponding annual
license issued by the ABLE Commission.
   E.   Prohibition Of Occupation Without Payment Of License Fee Or Payment Of
Occupation Tax, As Applicable: No occupation, as defined in this chapter to
include any brewer, distiller, winemaker, rectifier, wholesaler or bottler of
any alcoholic beverage; or any convenience store, grocery store, hotel or
motel, retail package store, nor any other business that manufactures,
distributes, serves or sells alcoholic beverages in the city, as those terms
are defined in this chapter or either of 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 506
through September 30, 2018, or 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103 commencing
October 1, 2018, shall conduct such occupation in the City until the license
fee or occupation tax, as applicable, imposed by this chapter has been paid in
full to the ABLE Commission or to the city clerk, respectively, and receipt
issued therefor.
   F.   Limited Jurisdiction: This section does not give the City any right to
determine or regulate the issuance of any license, as the ABLE Commission shall
have exclusive authority as to issuance and regulations of licenses. The City
may not prescribe rules or regulations in conflict with or in addition to the
statutes of the state or rules of the ABLE Commission. (Ord. 755, 9-17-2018)
3-2-4: ANNUAL REPORT TO STATE:
   A.   Prior To October 1, 2018: The city clerk shall make and transmit the
required annual report to the ABLE commission showing the number and class of
licenses upon which license fees were imposed since July 1, 2018, and the
amount collected from such fees
   B.   As Of October 1, 2019, And Thereafter: The city clerk shall make and
transmit to the ABLE Commission an annual report covering the prior fiscal
year, showing the number and class of licensees subject to the occupation tax
authorized by this chapter, and the amount of money received therefrom, which
information is to be included in the annual report of the ABLE Commission
submitted to the Governor, and transmitted to the Legislature. (Ord. 755, 9-17-
2018)
3-2-5: SEPARATED PREMISES; PASSAGEWAYS:
   A.   Premises: No person shall maintain, operate, or assist in any manner,
the maintenance or operation of a retail wine, retail beer or retail package
store in premises that are not separated from adjoining premises on which any
other goods, wares, or merchandise are sold or services are rendered by non-
transparent walls, broken only, if at all, by a passageway to which the public
is not admitted.
   B.   Passageways: No person shall take any alcoholic beverage through any
passageway described in subsection A of this section for the purpose of selling
or reselling such beverage, or for the purpose of delivery thereof in
connection with a sale of such beverage. (Ord. 755, 9-17-2018)
3-2-6: SALES IN CONTAINERS; CONSUMPTION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Conditions For Selling: No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic
beverages at a retail beer, wine or package store other than:
      1.   In retail containers.
      2.   At ordinary room temperature through September 30, 2018 (with the
exception of low point beer until such category is treated as retail beer under
title 37A). Package stores may install refrigerated coolers for the storage of
beer and wine prior to October 1, 2018, provided the refrigerated coolers shall
not be used to cool products below room temperature until after October 1,
2018.
      3.   In the original package.
      4.   For consumption off the premises.
   B.   Consumption On Premises Prohibited: No person shall drink or consume in
any manner alcoholic beverages on the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage
store, nor shall any person open or break the seal of any original package or
retail container containing alcoholic beverages on the premises of any such
retail alcoholic beverage store.
   C.   Allowing Consumption On Premises: No person owning, employed in, or in
any manner assisting in the maintenance and operation of a retail alcoholic
beverage store shall permit any alcoholic beverages to be consumed or any
retail container of such beverage to be opened on the premises of such store.
(Ord. 755, 9-17-2018)
3-2-7: SALE AT RETAIL STORES:
   A.   Through September 30, 2018: No person shall sell at retail, and no
person shall deliver in consequence or in contemplation of such a sale, any
alcoholic beverages (as defined in title 37 of the Oklahoma statutes to exclude
low-point beer) at any place in the city except at a licensed package store.
   B.   As Of October 1, 2018: The sale of beer and wine shall be permitted at
such package stores, grocery stores, convenience stores and drug stores as have
been licensed as retail sellers and have paid their occupation tax. (Ord. 755,
9-17-2018)
3-2-8: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: No retail alcoholic beverage store,
and no wholesale alcoholic beverage store, warehouse, brewery, distillery,
winery, or any other place, however described, for the manufacture or
production or bottling of alcoholic beverages of any kind shall be located,
maintained, or operated by any person at any place within the boundaries of the
city except at a location at which such an establishment is permitted by the
zoning ordinance of the city.
   B.   Operation At Prohibited Location: No person shall own, operate,
maintain, or possess any interest in any retail alcoholic beverage store which
is located at a place within the city which is forbidden as a location for such
store by the laws of the state of Oklahoma.
   C.   Proximity To Schools And Churches: It shall be unlawful for any mixed
beverage establishment or on-premises beer and wine establishment that has been
licensed by the ABLE Commission and which has, as its main purpose the selling
or serving of alcoholic beverages, for consumption on the premises, or any
retail package store, to be located within three hundred feet (300') of any
public or private school or church property (or similar house of worship of any
faith) primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities; provided that this subsection C. shall not apply to:
      1.   Mixed beverage establishments or beer and wine establishments that
were licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption or retail
package stores prior to November 1, 2000, except that, if, at the time of
application for license renewal, the licensed location has not been in actual
operation for a continuous period of more than sixty (60) days, the license
shall not be renewed;
      2.   Establishments licensed prior to October 1, 2018, to sell low-point
beer that were permitted to be located within three hundred feet (300') of any
public or private school or church property (or similar house of worship of any
faith) primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities shall be permitted to have such license, if still in effect on
October 1, 2018, transferred to a mixed beverage license, except that, if such
an establishment ceases to be open to the public or changes ownership, the
provisions of this subsection C.2. shall cease to apply.
      3.   If any school or church is established within three hundred feet
(300') of any package store, mixed beverage establishment, or on-premises beer
and wine establishment after such package store, mixed beverage establishment,
or beer and wine establishment has been licensed, such license may be renewed
if there has not been a lapse of licensure of more than sixty (60) days. (Ord.
755, 9-17-2018; amd. Ord. 756, 10-1-2018)
3-2-9: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   A certificate of compliance, on forms furnished by the city and issued
by the city clerk with respect to the applicant's principal place of business
under the license, certifying that, as of the date of the certificate of
compliance, inspections performed by the respective authorized officers
disclosed no conditions that violate any zoning regulations, building codes,
fire safety regulations or health code regulations is a condition for issuance
of an original license by the ABLE Commission as of October 1, 2018.
   B.   The certificate of compliance shall be reviewed and approved by the
following city or county officers:
      1.   Compliance with all municipal zoning ordinances shall be verified by
the director of community development, the city planner or a qualified designee
of either.
      2.   Compliance with all applicable building codes shall be verified by
the director of community development, the city building inspector or a
qualified designee of either.
      3.   Compliance with all fire code requirements shall be verified by the
chief of the fire department or a designated and qualified fire inspector.
      4.   Compliance with all health code regulations shall be verified by an
inspector for the Tulsa City-County Health Department or local code enforcement
officer is authorized to do so by the Tulsa City-County Health Department.
(Ord. 755, 9-17-2018)
3-2-10: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Wine Retailers, Beer Retailers And Spirits Retailers (Off-Premises
Consumption):
      1.   No holder of a retail wine license or a retail beer license shall
sell any beer or wine for off-premises consumption at any hour other than
between the hours of six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and two o’clock (2:00) A.M. the
following day, Monday through Sunday. Retail wine and retail beer licensees
shall be permitted to sell beer and wine on the day of any general, primary,
runoff primary or special election whether on a national, state, county or city
election.
      2.   No holder of a spirits retail license shall sell any alcoholic
beverage for off-premises consumption at any hour other than between the hours
of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve o’clock (12:00) A.M. (midnight) the
following day, Monday through Sunday, including all holidays except Christmas
Day and Thanksgiving Day. Retail spirits licensees shall be permitted to sell
alcohol beverages on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary or special
election whether on a national, state, county or city election.
      3.   Wholesale deliveries to package stores shall be permitted on all
days that such stores are permitted to operate, except New Year's Day and July
4.
   B.   Days And Times Of Lawful Sale For On-Premises Consumption:
      1.   Through September 30, 2018: No alcoholic beverages may be sold,
dispensed, served or consumed on the premises of a mixed beverage, caterer,
public event, charitable event, special event, on-premises beer and wine
licensee, small brewer or brewpub licensee between the hours of two o’clock (2:
00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:00) A.M.
      2.   After October 1, 2018: No alcoholic beverages may be sold,
dispensed, served or consumed on the premises of a mixed beverage, caterer,
public event, charitable event, special event, on-premises beer and wine
licensee, small brewer or brewpub licensee between the hours of two o’clock (2:
00) A.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M.
      3.   The city will abide by and enforce any designations made by Tulsa
County with respect to prohibiting the sales of alcoholic beverages on any or
all of the following days or hours, as applicable:
         a.   On the first day of the week, commonly called Sunday;
         b.   On Decoration or Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   C.   Special Provisions:
      1.   Motion picture theaters with mixed beverage licenses to sell
alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption, subject to the presentation of
identification showing that the purchaser is of legal drinking age and wearing
a bracelet or hand-stamp.
      2.   Wineries may sell wine by the full glass within designated sampling
areas at licensed locations and trade shows. (Ord. 755, 9-17-2018)
3-2-11: RETAIL WINE AND RETAIL SPIRITS OPERATORS SHALL NOT:
   A.   Purchase or receive any alcoholic beverage other than from a wine and
spirits wholesaler, beer distributor, winery or small brewer self-distribution
licensee who elects to self-distribute.
   B.   Permit any retail container to be opened, or any alcoholic beverage to
be consumed, on the licensed premises, unless otherwise permitted by law. (Ord.
755, 9-17-2018)
3-2-12: AGE RESTRICTIONS ON EMPLOYMENT AND CONSUMPTION:
   A.   No licensed package store, retail spirits, retail wine or retail beer
establishment, brewpub, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment, bottle club, public event or any establishment where alcohol or
alcoholic beverages are sold, mixed or served shall employ any person under
eighteen (18) years of age in the selling of beer or wine or employ any person
under twenty-one (21) years of age in the selling of spirits; provided that, a
mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special event, bottle
club, retail wine or retail beer licensee may employ servers or sales clerks
who are at least eighteen (18) years of age, except that persons under twenty-
one (21) years of age may not serve in designated bar or lounge areas.
   B.   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special event
or bottle club licensee may employ or hire musical bands who have musicians who
are under eighteen (18) years of age if each such musician is either
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian or has on their person, to be made
available for inspection upon demand by any employee of the ABLE Commission or
law enforcement officer, a written, notarized affidavit from the parent or
legal guardian giving the underage musician permission to perform in designated
bar or lounge areas.
   C.   No person shall knowingly sell, deliver or otherwise furnish alcoholic
to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age; or knowingly permit any
person under twenty-one (21) years of age who is an invitee to such person's
residence or any building, structure or room owned, occupied, leased or
procured by such person to possess or consume any alcoholic beverage. (Ord.
755, 9-17-2018)
3-2-13: SELLING ON CREDIT; DISHONORED PAYMENTS:
   A.   No person at any retail alcoholic beverage store in the city shall sell
any spirits, beer or wine on credit; provided, that acceptance by a retail
package store, grocery store, convenience store or drug store of a cash or
debit card, or a nationally recognized credit card, in lieu of actual cash
payment does not constitute the extension of credit.
   B.   As used in this section:
      1.   "Cash or debit card" means any instrument or device whether known as
a cash or debit card or by any other name, issued with or without fee by an
issuer for the use of the cardholder in depositing, obtaining or transferring
funds from a consumer banking electronic facility.
      2.   "Nationally recognized credit card" means any instrument or device,
whether known as a credit card, credit plate, charge plate or by any other
name, issued with or without fee by an issuer for the use of the cardholder in
obtaining money, goods, services or anything else of value on credit which is
accepted by over one hundred retail locations.
   C.   No person may pay for any alcoholic beverage by a check or draft which
is dishonored by the drawee when presented to such drawee for payment. The ABLE
Commission may cancel or suspend the license of any retailer who has given a
check or draft, as maker or endorser, which is so dishonored upon presentation.
(Ord. 755, 9-17-2018)
3-2-14: GIVING PRIZES AND INDUCEMENTS; DISCRIMINATION:
   A.   No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage store, and no
person employed therein, shall offer or furnish any prize, premium, gift, or
similar inducement to a consumer in connection with the sale of alcoholic
beverages; except, that goods or merchandise included by the manufacturer in
packaging with alcoholic beverages or for packaging with alcoholic beverages
shall not be included in this prohibition, but no wholesaler or package store
shall sell any alcoholic beverage prepackaged with other goods or merchandise
at a price which is greater than the price at which the alcoholic beverage
alone is sold.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person privileged to sell alcoholic
beverages to wholesalers or retailers:
      1.   To discriminate, directly or indirectly, in price between one
alcoholic beverages wholesaler and another alcoholic beverage wholesaler, when
that manufacturer has not designated a single alcoholic beverage wholesaler, or
between one retailer and another retailer purchasing alcoholic beverages
bearing the same brand or trade name and of like age and quality; or
      2.   To grant, directly or indirectly, any discount, rebate, free goods,
allowance or other inducement as consideration for the purchase and consumption
of alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 755, 9-17-2018)
3-2-15: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   For any violation of any provision of this chapter, each day's
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   See title 6, chapter 1, article D of this code for comprehensive
description of violations and offenses involving alcoholic beverages, and
applicable penalties.
   C.   The city council may, as to any mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer,
public event or bottle club licensee in the City, initiate a license suspension
or revocation proceeding as to such licensee by filing a written complaint with
the ABLE Commission. Such complaint shall set forth the grounds for the
proposed suspension or revocation. Such complaint may be based on any ground
that the ABLE Commission might have asserted and shall otherwise be processed
in accordance with laws and regulations applicable to ABLE. (Ord. 755, 9-17-
2018)
CHAPTER 3
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
3-3-1: State License And Compliance Required; Regulatory Fee
3-3-2: Register Of Transactions
3-3-3: Pawn Ticket
3-3-1: STATE LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; REGULATORY FEE:
Every pawnbroker transacting business within the city shall first be licensed
by the state of Oklahoma to conduct such business and shall comply with the
state statutory requirements relating to financing, setting interest rates,
disclosure and reporting of transactions. The regulatory fee to conduct the
business of pawnbroker is fifty dollars ($50.00) annually. (2002 Code §§
5.04.010, 5.24.010; amd. 2013 Code)
3-3-2: REGISTER OF TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   Required Information: Every pawnbroker shall keep at his or her place
of business a register in which he or she shall record in ink an adequate
description of all property purchased, taken or received by him or her,
including any number thereon. He or she shall record in the register the date
when all property is received and also the name and place of residence of the
person leaving or pledging the property, including his or her street and street
number if any. He or she shall record in the register the amount loaned, the
interest charged, and the time when the loan is to become due. All such entries
shall be made within one hour after the purchase or receipt of property. The
register shall be kept clean and legible.
   B.   Inspection: The register herein required to be kept shall be subject to
inspection at any time by any police officer of the city, the city attorney,
and any other person authorized in writing to make such inspection by the chief
of police. Upon request, the pawnbroker shall show to such officer or person
for inspection any article or articles or purchases taken or received unless
such article or articles have already been disposed of. (2002 Code § 5.24.010;
amd. 2013 Code)
3-3-3: PAWN TICKET:
The pawnbroker shall give, without charge, to the person leaving or pledging
property a legible ticket containing a true copy of all entries made in the
register concerning the property left or pledged. (2002 Code § 5.24.010)
CHAPTER 4
POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS
SECTION:
3-4-1: License Required; Fee
3-4-2: Application For License; Issuance; Expiration
3-4-3: Hours To Be Closed
3-4-4: Violation; Penalty
3-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate any pool,
snooker, or billiard hall, table, or tables for the purpose of gain or profit,
or when a charge is made for playing the games, without first having procured a
license therefor as herein provided. The fee for such license shall be as
established by the city council. (2002 Code §§ 5.04.010, 5.28.010; amd. 2013
Code)
3-4-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE; EXPIRATION:
Licenses shall be issued by the city clerk upon application therefor in
writing, setting forth the name of the owner and/or operator thereof, and the
proposed place of business, and the payment of a license fee as set by the city
council. All such licenses shall be for a period of one year; except, that such
licenses shall be forfeited and expire at once upon the violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter by the owner and/or operator of any such place.
(2002 Code § 5.28.020; amd. 2013 Code)
3-4-3: HOURS TO BE CLOSED:
All persons, firms and corporations operating pool, snooker, or billiard halls
shall close their places of business in which such tables are operated at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight or earlier, and shall not reopen the same for
business before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the next day. All such places
shall be closed all day on Sundays except between the hours of one o'clock (1:
00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (2002 Code § 5.28.030)
3-4-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates or neglects or refuses to comply
with any regulation, requirement, or provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. Each day upon which any violation occurs shall constitute
a separate offense. (2002 Code § 5.28.040; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Fees
3-5-2: Required Identification Information
3-5-3: Prohibited Hours
3-5-1: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Established: Each person, firm, corporation, agent, or solicitor
selling or taking orders for goods or services, wares, or other goods of any
description which are sold from door to door; each itinerant person peddling or
selling drinks or any other kind of food from a mobile vehicle, cart, other
vehicle, basket or similar thing; and each itinerant photographer or itinerant
person selling or taking orders for photographs shall pay a license fee as
established by the city council. An individual employing other individuals
shall be subject to the same fee as set forth for corporations.
   B.   Proration Of Fee: In the event the license is obtained following
December 31 and continuing until June 30 of the same year in which it is
obtained, then, and in that event, the license fee shall be one-half (1/2) of
the established fee. (2002 Code § 5.04.010; amd. 2013 Code)
3-5-2: REQUIRED IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION:
All persons applying for a license shall, prior to receiving said license,
provide the city clerk with a copy of his or her driver's license or federal or
state recognized photo ID. (2002 Code § 5.04.010; amd. 2013 Code)
3-5-3: PROHIBITED HOURS:
No door to door solicitation sales shall commence prior to nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. or continue after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on any day. (2002 Code §
5.04.010)
CHAPTER 6
BONDSMEN
SECTION:
3-6-1: License Required
3-6-2: License Fee And Payment
3-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
All bondsmen seeking to write bonds under security agreements within the city
shall obtain a professional license on an annual basis. (Ord. 546, 2-21-2006;
amd. 2013 Code)
3-6-2: LICENSE FEE AND PAYMENT:
A professional bondsman doing business within the city shall first pay a
licensing fee to the city in the amount as established by the city council.
Only bondsmen paying the professional licensing fee shall be permitted to write
bonds within the city. Payment of such fee shall be made on or before July 1 of
each year. (Ord. 546, 2-21-2006; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 7
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
SECTION:
3-7-1: Special Exception Requirements
3-7-1: SPECIAL EXCEPTION REQUIREMENTS:
Any person, firm or corporation that proposes to drill or operate any well for
the exploration, development or production of oil or gas, or as an injection or
disposal well, in the city will be required to satisfy the following
requirements:
   A.   Submit to the community development department an application, along
with an application fee to be established by the city council, for special
exception for oil and gas well drilling and operation; provided, that such
application may be granted by the board of adjustment in only agriculture,
commercial general and industrial zoning districts, and restricted in such
zoning districts to areas of the city that do not lie within the "No Permit
(For Oil And Gas Well Drilling And Cleaning) Boundary Map", per ordinance 171,
as amended.
   B.   Upon receipt of the foregoing special exception, if granted, submit to
the city clerk:
      1.   A copy of its written agreement with the Oklahoma corporate
commission to drill, operate and plug well(s) in compliance with the rules of
the commission and the laws of the state of Oklahoma;
      2.   A copy of the evidence provided to the commission of financial
ability to comply with the requirements for plugging, closure of surface
impoundments, and removal of trash and equipment as established by rules of the
commission and by law; and
      3.   An application, along with a permit application fee, for a permit to
be granted or denied in the discretion of the city council. (2013 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: County Regulations Adopted
4-1-1: COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The city hereby adopts all rules and regulations and standards imposed by the
Tulsa County health department governing health and safety, including, but not
limited to, sanitary facilities, food handling, and air pollution. (2002 Code §
8.04.010; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Permit Requirements
4-2-3: General Conditions And Requirements
4-2-4: Bonfires
4-2-5: Unlawful Substances
4-2-6: Fire Ban Emergency
4-2-7: Responsibility For Consequences
4-2-8: Types Of Burning Permitted
4-2-9: Enforcement
4-2-10: Violation; Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BONFIRE:                  A large fire built in the open air for ceremonial
                          purposes.
BURNING PERMIT:           A permit to kindle or maintain open fires or other
                          fires.
                          Any substance which will readily burn and shall
COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL:     include those substances which, although generally
                          considered incombustible, are or may be included in
                          the mass of the material burned or to be burned.
CONTAINED FIRE:           Any fire contained in an incinerator/noncombustible
                          container, fireplace or other contained enclosure.
                          Combustible materials or refuse that normally results
                          from the function of life at a residence, such as
                          kitchen garbage, untreated lumber, cardboard boxes,
DOMESTIC REFUSE:          packaging, clothing, grass, leaves, and branch
                          trimmings. The term does not include such things as
                          tires, nonwood construction debris, furniture,
                          carpet, electrical wire, and appliances.
                          A fire purposely set as part of an organized program
FIRE TRAINING:            of drills for the training of firefighting personnel
                          or for testing firefighting materials or equipment
                          which is part of a recognized training program.
                          Any putrescible animal and vegetable matter resulting
GARBAGE:                  from the handling, preparation, cooking and
                          consumption of food.
INCINERATOR/              Any device specifically designed for the destruction
NONCOMBUSTIBLE CONTAINER: by burning of refuse or any combustible material.
                          The uprooting, cutting or clearing of vegetation in
                          preparation for the construction of buildings, the
                          development of residential, commercial, agricultural,
LAND CLEARING OPERATION:  or industrial properties, and for the construction
                          and maintenance of rights of way. The term does not
                          include the clearing of vegetation such as trimmings,
                          fallen limbs, branches, or leaves, or other wastes
                          from routine property maintenance activities.
                          Any structure constructed with the intent of
MANMADE STRUCTURE:        providing shelter to persons or property. The term
                          does not include structures constructed specifically
                          for live burn fire training purposes.
NUISANCE FIRE:            Any fire determined to be intrusive or offensive to
                          the community or environment.
                          The burning of combustible materials in such a manner
OPEN BURNING:             that the products of combustion are emitted directly
                          to the outside atmosphere.
                          A fire in which any material is burned in the open or
OPEN FIRE:                in a receptacle other than a fireplace or an
                          incinerator/noncombustible container.
                          A device consisting of a pit (into which the material
                          to be combusted is placed) and nozzles, pipes, and
OPEN PIT INCINERATOR:     other appurtenances designed and arranged in a manner
                          to deliver additional air and/or auxiliary fuel to or
                          near the zone of combustion so that, theoretically,
                          complete combustion is accomplished or approached.
                          Any individual, partnership, association,
PERSON:                   corporation, department, bureau, agency or legal
                          entity, and the members of such partnership or
                          association and the officers of such corporation.
                          All particulate and gaseous air contaminants emitted
PRODUCTS OF COMBUSTION:   as a result of the burning of refuse and combustible
                          materials.
                          Garbage, rubbish, domestic refuse and all other
REFUSE:                   wastes generated by trade, business, industry,
                          building operation, or household.
                          An individual eighteen (18) years or older who is not
RESPONSIBLE ADULT:        under the influence of drugs or alcohol or suffering
                          from any other disability which would impair his or
                          her ability to properly supervise a fire.
RUBBISH:                  Solids not considered highly flammable or explosive.
                          Leaves, limbs and grass clippings normally associated
YARD DEBRIS:              with property maintenance. (Ord. 499, 5-19-2003; amd.
                          2013 Code; Ord. 795, - -2021)
 
4-2-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: The burning of paper, trash, leaves, brush, rubbish,
garbage, and refuse of any nature whatsoever may be performed within the city
only after having received permission from the city fire chief or his
designated representative.
   B.   Term Of Permit: Once a permit for burning is obtained as set forth
herein, such permit shall be good for a period of seven (7) days. The counting
of days shall begin with the day the permit is received as the first day of
validity. (Ord. 499, 5-19-2003; amd. Ord. 795, - -2021)
4-2-3: GENERAL CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The open burning of yard debris may be conducted as permitted only after the
following conditions and requirements are met:
   A.   Permission received from the chief of the fire department.
   B.   No public nuisance is or will be created.
   C.   The burning is controlled so that a visibility hazard is not created on
any roadway, rail, track or airfield as a result of the air contaminants being
emitted.
   D.   The burning is conducted so that the contaminants do not adversely
affect the air quality and only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants. Consideration of ozone alert days must be taken.
   E.   The hours for burning shall be from two (2) hours after sunrise to
three (3) hours before sunset, unless extended by the city fire department. For
purposes of this subsection, the hours stated for completion of burning on any
given date shall be that time by which all fires shall be extinguished.
   F.   Prior to initiating any burning, the party initiating each burn shall
notify the city fire department of the location of the burn site, the proposed
time of burn and the nature of the materials to be burned. Initiating a burn
prior to notification of the fire department shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter.
   G.   Every contained or open fire shall be built in and confined to a
noncombustible area.
   H.   Contained fires and open fires shall not be permitted closer than
twenty five feet (25') from any building or structure and all property lines
nor permitted when wind speed is greater than ten (10) miles per hour.
   I.   All fires shall be attended to at all times by a responsible adult with
a readily available method of extinguishing the fire.
   J.   All fires shall be extinguished thoroughly with no smoldering.
   K.   No fire shall be permitted to burn upon such times and conditions as
may be designated by local, county or state officials. A total moratorium on
all burning may be declared for such times and under such conditions as may be
deemed necessary.
   L.   Any fire that has been declared a nuisance will be extinguished upon
verbal notification by an officer of the city. (Ord. 499, 5-19-2003; amd. 2013
Code; Ord. 795, - -2021)
4-2-4: BONFIRES:
Bonfires shall be permitted to be kindled or maintained from dusk to dawn;
provided, that the following requirements are met:
   A.   All bonfires shall be located a minimum of twenty five feet (25') from
all buildings or structures and all property lines.
   B.   All bonfires shall be attended to at all times by a responsible adult
with readily available means of extinguishing the fire.
   C.   All bonfires shall be extinguished thoroughly with no smoldering.
   D.   No bonfires shall be permitted to burn whenever drought or extreme
weather conditions exist or when a ban on burning has been placed into effect
by the city fire department or other competent governmental body. (2013 Code;
amd. Ord. 795, - -2021)
4-2-5: UNLAWFUL SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Burning of common household garbage and rubbish is prohibited. These
items include, but are not limited to, rags, old clothes, leather, rubber,
carpets, furniture, crockery, masonry, and other similar items.
   B.   Burning of construction debris, styrofoam, aerosol cans, byproducts of
manufacturing and processing operations and wastes from commercial and
industrial operations is strictly prohibited.
   C.   Nothing herein shall be construed to permit or encourage the burning of
any substance determined by the state of Oklahoma or the United States
environmental protection agency to be a hazardous substance; nor shall any fire
be permitted to burn by any persons if such burning is in violation of the air
pollution control act or other legislation by the United States Of America or
any of its legislative agencies.
   D.   Fires shall be used only to burn readily combustible materials. (2013
Code; amd. Ord. 795, - -2021)
4-2-6: FIRE BAN EMERGENCY:
Upon the declaration of a fire ban emergency, all outdoor burning or fires
shall be prohibited until the ban has lifted. (2013 Code; amd. Ord. 795, - -
2021)
4-2-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONSEQUENCES:
Persons who conduct open burning in accordance with any of the provisions of
this chapter are not exempt or excused from the consequences, damages, or
injuries which may result from such conduct, nor are they exempt or excused
from complying with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, and orders. (Ord.
499, 5-19-2003; amd. Ord. 795, - -2021)
4-2-8: TYPES OF BURNING PERMITTED:
   A.   Disaster Relief: Notwithstanding the prohibitions referred to within
this chapter, the executive director of the DEQ may allow open burning of
debris resulting from a disaster if the director determines that such burning
is necessary to protect public health and safety. Such approval, if granted,
shall be accompanied by appropriate guidelines for burning of the debris.
   B.   Elimination Of Hazards: Provided prior authorization is obtained from
the local fire chief, open burning is allowed for the elimination of:
      1.   A fire hazard that cannot be abated by any other means.
      2.   A dangerous or hazardous material when there is no other practical
or lawful method of abatement or disposal if authorization is also received
from the DEQ prior to such burning.
   C.   Land Management And Land Clearing Operations: Open burning is allowed
for the following land management and land clearing operations:
      1.   Fires purposely set for forest, crop or range lands for a specific
reason in the management of forests, crops or game, in accordance with the
practices recommended by the Oklahoma department of wildlife conservation, the
Oklahoma state department of agriculture, and the United States forest service.
      2.   Fires purposely set for land clearing operations if conducted at
least five hundred feet (500') upwind of any occupied residence other than
those located on the property on which the burning is conducted; except, that
such burning must be conducted in open pit incinerators in areas that are or
have been designated nonattainment.
   D.   Burning Of Domestic Refuse: Where no collection and disposal service is
reasonably available, domestic refuse may be burned on the property where the
waste is generated.
   E.   Hydrocarbon Burning: Open burning of hydrocarbons is allowed for:
      1.   The disposal of spilled hydrocarbons or the waste products of oil
exploration, development, refining or processing operations which cannot be
feasibly recovered or otherwise disposed of in a legal manner. Notice must be
given to the DEQ prior to such burning.
      2.   The disposal of waste hydrocarbons through a flare. The owner or
operator shall be required to use a smokeless flare if a condition of air
pollution is determined to exist by the DEQ.
   F.   Open Pit Incinerator: Except for hazardous material, any combustible
material or refuse that is allowed to be burned under this chapter may be
burned in an open pit incinerator that is properly designated and operated for
the control of smoke and particulate matter. The owner or operator of the open
pit incinerator shall not accept any material owned by other persons and shall
not transport any material to the property where the open pit incinerator is at
that time operating at maximum capacity as determined by the fire chief. (Ord.
499, 5-19-2003; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 795, - -2021)
4-2-9: ENFORCEMENT:
The code enforcement officer and any city fire department or police department
officer or designee shall have the power to enforce any provision of this
chapter. (2013 Code; amd. Ord. 795, - -2021)
4-2-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. Each day upon which the violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 499, 5-19-2003; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 795, - -
2021)
CHAPTER 3
SMOKING; YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
ARTICLE A. SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND INDOOR WORKPLACES
SECTION:
4-3A-1: Definitions
4-3A-2: Possession Of Lighted Tobacco In Certain Places Prohibited; Exemptions
4-3A-3: Designated Smoking Rooms And Areas
4-3A-4: Signs Posted
4-3A-5: Enforcement
4-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
INDOOR WORKPLACE: Any indoor place of employment or employment type service for
or at the request of another individual or individuals, or any public or
private entity, whether part time or full time and whether for compensation or
not. Such services shall include, without limitation, any service performed by
an owner, employee, independent contractor, agent, partner, proprietor,
manager, officer, director, apprentice, trainee, associate, servant or
volunteer. An indoor workplace includes work areas, employee lounges,
restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, any
other spaces used or visited by employees, and all space between a floor and
ceiling that is predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows,
regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed windows, stairways, or the like.
The provisions of this article shall apply to such indoor workplace at any
given time, whether or not work is being performed.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any enclosed indoor area where individuals other than employees
are invited or permitted. The term is synonymous with the phrase "any indoor
place used by or open to the public".
RESTAURANT: Any eating establishment regardless of seating capacity.
SMOKING: The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or other
lighted smoking device.
STAND ALONE BAR, STAND ALONE TAVERN, AND CIGAR BAR: An establishment that
derives more than sixty percent (60%) of its gross receipts, subject to
verification by competent authority, from the sale of alcoholic beverages and
low point beer, and no person under twenty one (21) years of age is admitted,
except for members of a musical band employed or hired as provided in 37
Oklahoma Statutes section 537, subsection B, paragraph 2 and that is not
located within, and does not share any common entryway or common indoor area
with, any other enclosed indoor workplace, including a restaurant. (2013 Code)
4-3A-2: POSSESSION OF LIGHTED TOBACCO IN CERTAIN PLACES PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   The possession of lighted tobacco in any form is a public nuisance
and dangerous to public health and is hereby prohibited when such possession is
in any indoor place used by or open to the public, public transportation, or
any indoor workplace, except where specifically allowed by law.
      2.   All buildings, or portions thereof, owned or operated by this state
or by any county government shall be designated as nonsmoking; provided,
however, each building may have one designated smoking room.
      3.   A smoking room as provided for in subsection A2 of this section:
         a.   Shall not be used for the conduct of public business;
         b.   Shall be in a location which is fully enclosed, directly
exhausted to the outside, under negative air pressure so smoke cannot escape
when a door is opened, and no air is recirculated to nonsmoking areas of the
building. No smoking exhaust shall be located within twenty five feet (25') of
any entrance, exit or air intake; and
         c.   Shall be verified for compliance with the provisions of this
subsection A3 by the department of central services for state buildings, by a
county entity designated by the board of county commissioners for county
buildings, or by the city building official.
      4.   All buildings, or portions thereof, owned or operated by the city
shall be entirely nonsmoking.
      5.   No smoking shall be allowed within twenty five feet (25') of the
entrance or exit of any building specified in subsection A2 or A4 of this
section.
   B.   Exemptions: The restrictions provided in subsection A of this section
shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Stand alone bars, stand alone taverns and cigar bars;
      2.   The room or rooms where licensed charitable bingo games are being
operated, but only during the hours of operation of such games;
      3.   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the guestrooms at a hotel or
other lodging establishment rented to guests if the rooms are properly
ventilated so that smoke is not circulated to nonsmoking areas;
      4.   Retail tobacco stores predominantly engaged in the sale of tobacco
products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental and in which no food or beverage is sold or served for consumption
on the premises;
      5.   Workplaces where only the owner or operator of the workplace, or the
immediate family of the owner or operator, performs any work in the workplace,
and the workplace has only incidental public access. "Incidental public access"
means that a place of business has only an occasional person, who is not an
employee, present at the business to transact business or make a delivery. The
term does not include businesses that depend on walk-in customers for any part
of their business;
      6.   Workplaces occupied exclusively by one or more smokers, if the
workplace has only incidental public access;
      7.   Private offices occupied exclusively by one or more smokers;
      8.   Private residences and workplaces within private residences; except,
that smoking shall not be allowed inside any private residence that is used as
a licensed childcare facility during hours of operation;
      9.   Medical research or treatment centers, if smoking is integral to the
research or treatment;
      10.   A facility operated by a post or organization of past or present
members of the armed forces of the United States which is exempt from taxation
pursuant to section 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19) of the internal revenue
code, 26 USC section 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19), when such facility is
utilized exclusively by its members and their families and for the conduct of
post or organization nonprofit operations except during an event or activity
which is open to the public; and
      11.   Any outdoor seating area of a restaurant, provided smoking shall
not be allowed within fifteen feet (15') of any exterior public doorway or any
air intake of a restaurant. (2013 Code)
4-3A-3: DESIGNATED SMOKING ROOMS AND AREAS:
   A.   An employer not otherwise restricted from doing so under this article
may elect to provide smoking rooms where no work is performed except for
cleaning and maintenance during the time the room is not in use for smoking,
provided each smoking room is fully enclosed and exhausted directly to the
outside in such a manner that no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking
area. No exhaust from a smoking room shall be located within fifteen feet (15')
of any entrance, exit or air intake.
   B.   If smoking is to be permitted in any space exempted in subsection 4-3A-
2B of this article or in a smoking room pursuant to subsection A of this
section, such smoking space must either occupy the entire enclosed indoor space
or, if it shares the enclosed space with any nonsmoking areas, the smoking
space shall be fully enclosed, exhausted directly to the outside with no air
from the smoking space circulated to any nonsmoking area, and under negative
air pressure so that no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking area
when a door to an adjacent nonsmoking area is opened. Air from a smoking room
shall not be exhausted within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance, exit or air
intake. Any employer may choose a more restrictive smoking policy, including
being totally smoke free.
   C.   A nursing facility licensed pursuant to the nursing home care act may
designate smoking rooms for residents and their guests. Such rooms shall be
fully enclosed, directly exhausted to the outside, and shall be under negative
air pressure so that no smoke can escape when a door is opened and no air is
recirculated to nonsmoking areas of the building.
   D.   Restaurants shall be totally nonsmoking or may provide nonsmoking areas
and designated smoking rooms. Food and beverages may be served in such
designated smoking rooms which shall be in a location which is fully enclosed,
directly exhausted to the outside, under negative air pressure so smoke cannot
escape when a door is opened, and no air is recirculated to nonsmoking areas of
the building. No exhaust from such room shall be located within twenty five
feet (25') of any entrance, exit or air intake. Such room shall be subject to
verification for compliance with the provisions of this subsection by the state
department of health. (2013 Code)
4-3A-4: SIGNS POSTED:
   A.   The person who owns or operates a place where smoking or tobacco use is
prohibited by law shall be responsible for posting a sign or decal, at least
four inches by two inches (4" x 2") in size, at each entrance to the building
indicating that the place is smoke free or tobacco free.
   B.   Responsibility for posting signs or decals shall be as follows:
      1.   In privately owned facilities, the owner or lessee, if a lessee is
in possession of the facilities, shall be responsible;
      2.   In corporately owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of
the facility involved shall be responsible; and
      3.   In publicly owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of the
facility shall be responsible. (2013 Code)
4-3A-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The state or the city, or the person who owns or operates a public place shall,
at a minimum, do the following in order to prevent smoking in public places:
   A.   Post signs at entrances to places where smoking is prohibited which
state that smoking is prohibited or that the indoor environment is free of
tobacco smoke; and
   B.   Ask smokers to refrain from smoking upon observation of anyone
violating the provisions of this article. (2013 Code)
ARTICLE B. YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
SECTION:
4-3B-1: Definitions
4-3B-2: Unlawful To Sell Or Furnish Tobacco, Nicotine Or Vapor Product
To Persons Under Twenty-One Years Of Age
4-3B-3: Distribution Of Tobacco Product And Vapor Product Samples
4-3B-4: Public Access To Displayed Tobacco, Nicotine Or Vapor Products
4-3B-5: Sale Of Tobacco Products Except In Original, Sealed Packaging
Prohibited
4-3B-6: Signs In Retail Establishments Required
4-3B-7: Notice To Retail Employees - Signed Acknowledgment
4-3B-8: Purchase Or Possession Of Tobacco, Nicotine Or Vapor Product By Minors
- Falsification Of Proof Of Age - Education Or Tobacco Use Cessation Program
4-3B-9: Enforcement
4-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
NICOTINE PRODUCT: Any product that contains nicotine extracted or isolated from
plants, vegetables, fruits, herbs, weeds, genetically modified organic matter,
or that is synthetic in origin and is intended for human consumption; provided,
however, this term shall not include products approved by the United States
Food and Drug Administration for smoking cessation.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
association, however formed.
PROOF OF AGE: A driver license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
twenty-one (21) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other
likeness of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
SAMPLE: A tobacco product, nicotine product or vapor product distributed to
members of the public at no cost for the purpose of promoting the product.
SAMPLING: The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
TRANSACTION SCAN: The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver license or other government-
issued photo identification.
TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE: Any commercial device or combination of devices used
at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an electronically
readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or bar code of a
driver license or other government-issued photo identification.
VAPOR PRODUCT: Noncombustible products, that may or may not contain nicotine,
that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic circuit, or other
mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to produce a vapor in
a solution or other form. "Vapor products" shall include any vapor cartridge or
other container with or without nicotine or other form that is intended to be
used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any vapor cartridge or other
container of a solution, that may or may not contain nicotine, that is intended
to be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
cigarillo or electronic device. "Vapor products" do not include any products
regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. (2013 Code; amd. Ord. 817, 1-2-2024)
4-3B-2: UNLAWFUL TO SELL OR FURNISH TOBACCO, NICOTINE OR VAPOR PRODUCT TO
PERSONS UNDER TWENTY- ONE YEARS OF AGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner
any tobacco product, nicotine product or vapor product to another person who is
under twenty-one (21) years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco
product, nicotine product or vapor product on behalf of any such person. It
shall not be unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of age to
handle tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor products when required in
performance of the employee's duties.
   B.   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the
basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser may be less than twenty-one
(21) years of age.
      If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient who is not under twenty-one (21) years of
age, the failure to subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a
violation of this subsection.
   C.   Violations And Penalties:
      1.   Any person who violates subsection A or B of this section is guilty
of an offense against the City of Glenpool and, upon conviction of any such
offense, the violator shall be punished as follows:
         a.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
offense;
         b.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
offense within a two-year period following the first offense;
         c.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third
offense within a two (2) year period following the first offense. In addition
to any other penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products or nicotine
products or the store's sales tax permit for a store that is predominantly
engaged in the sale of vapor products in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental may be suspended for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days;
or
         d.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a fourth or
subsequent offense within a two (2) year period following the first offense. In
addition to any other penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products or
nicotine products or the store's sales tax permit for a store that is
predominantly engaged in the sale of vapor products in which the sale of other
products is merely incidental may be suspended for a period not exceeding sixty
(60) days.
      2.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found guilty
of the violation if such person proves that:
         a.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product,
nicotine product or vapor product presented a driver license or other
government-issued photo identification purporting to establish that such
individual was twenty-one (21) years of age or older; or
         b.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
      Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any person
cited for a violation of this section if the person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver license or other government-issued photo identification
was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of the defense
described in this subsection does not affect the availability of any other
defense under any other provision of law.
   D.   If the sale is made by an employee of the owner of a store at which
tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor products are sold at retail, the
employee shall be guilty of the violation and shall be subject to the fine.
Each violation by any employee of an owner of a store licensed to sell tobacco
products or nicotine products or permitted to sell vapor products shall be
deemed a violation against the owner for purposes of a license suspension
pursuant to subsection C of this section. Each violation by an employee of a
store predominantly engaged in the sale of vapor products in which the sale of
other products is merely incidental shall be deemed a violation against the
owner for purposes of a sales tax permit suspension pursuant to the provisions
of subsection C of this section. An owner of a store licensed to sell tobacco
products or nicotine products or permitted to sell vapor products shall not be
deemed in violation of the provisions of the Prevention of Youth Access to
Tobacco Act for any acts constituting a violation by any person, when the
violation occurs prior to actual employment of the person by the storeowner or
the violation occurs at a location other than the owner's retail store. For
purposes of determining the liability of a person controlling franchises or
business operations in multiple locations, for any violations of subsection A
or B of this section, each individual franchise or business location shall be
deemed a separate entity.
   E.   Upon conviction for violating the provisions of Subsection A or B of
this section, a report of the conviction shall be forwarded by the Municipal
Court Clerk of the City of Glenpool to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Laws
Enforcement (ABLE) Commission for possible suspension of the store's license to
sell tobacco products or nicotine products or the store's sales tax permit for
a store that is predominantly engaged in the sale of vapor products in which
the sale of other products is merely incidental at the location where the
offense occurred for the period of time prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
(Ord. 817, 1-2-2024)
4-3B-3: DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCT AND VAPOR PRODUCT SAMPLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute, tobacco
products, nicotine products, vapor products or product samples to any person
under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   No person shall distribute tobacco products, nicotine products, vapor
products or product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that
is within three hundred feet (300') of any playground, school, or other
facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons under twenty-one
(21) years of age.
   C.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued or
deferred sentence for a violation of subsections A or B of this section, the
total of any fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      1.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense;
and
      3.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a third or
subsequent offense. (Ord. 817, 1-2-2024)
4-3B-4: PUBLIC ACCESS TO DISPLAYED TOBACCO, NICOTINE OR VAPOR PRODUCTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products, nicotine products, or vapor products in any manner that
allows public access to the tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor
products without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products or an employee or the owner of the store.
The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to retail stores which do not
admit into the store persons under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued or
deferred sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines,
fees, or costs shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 817, 1-2-2024)
4-3B-5: SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS EXCEPT IN ORIGINAL, SEALED PACKAGING
PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in the
original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued or
deferred sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines,
fees, or costs shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 817, 1-2-2024)
4-3B-6: SIGNS IN RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Every person who sells or displays tobacco products, nicotine products
or vapor products at retail shall post conspicuously and keep so posted at the
place of business a sign, as specified by the Alcoholic Beverage Laws
Enforcement (ABLE) Commission, stating the following: "IT'S THE LAW. WE DO NOT
SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS, NICOTINE PRODUCTS OR VAPOR PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER 21
YEARS OF AGE." The sign shall also provide the toll-free number operated by the
Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission for the purpose of
reporting violations of the Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco Act.
   B.   The notice required by subsection A of this section shall be the only
notice required to be posted or maintained in any store that sells tobacco
products, nicotine products or vapor products at retail. (Ord. 817, 1-2-2024)
4-3B-7: NOTICE TO RETAIL EMPLOYEES - SIGNED ACKNOWLEDGMENT:
   A.   Every person engaged in the business of selling tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products at retail shall notify each individual
employed by that person as a retail sales clerk that state law:
      1.   Prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco products, nicotine
products or vapor products to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age and
the purchase or receipt of tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor
products by any person under twenty-one (21) years of age; and
      2.   Requires that proof of age be demanded from a prospective purchaser
or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance
that the prospective purchaser or recipient may be under twenty-one (21) years
of age.
   B.   This notice shall be provided before the individual commences work as a
retail sales clerk. The individual shall signify that he or she has received
the notice required by this section by signing a form stating as follows:
      "I understand that state law prohibits the sale or distribution of
tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor products to persons under twenty-
one (21) years of age and out-of package sales, and requires proof of age of
purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of
appearance that the prospective purchaser or recipient may be under twenty-one
(21) years of age. l promise, as a condition of my employment, to obey the law.
I understand that violations by me may be punishable by fines, suspension or
nonissuance of my driver license. In addition, I understand that violations by
me may subject the store owner to fines or license or permit suspension."
(Ord. 817, 1-2-2024)
4-3B-8: PURCHASE OR POSSESSION OF TOBACCO, NICOTINE OR VAPOR PRODUCT BY MINORS
- FALSIFICATION OF PROOF OF AGE - EDUCATION OR TOBACCO USE CESSATION PROGRAM:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age
to purchase, receive, or have in his or her possession a tobacco product,
nicotine product or vapor product, or to present or offer to any person any
purported proof of age which is false or fraudulent, for the purpose of
purchasing or receiving any tobacco product, nicotine product or vapor product.
It shall not be unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of age to
handle tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor products when required in
the performance of the employee's duties.
   B.   When a person violates subsection A of this section, the violator shall
complete an education or tobacco use cessation program approved by the court.
If the violator fails to complete the tobacco use cessation program ordered by
the court, a fine may be imposed that shall not exceed fifty dollars ($50.00)
for a first offense or one hundred dollars ($100.00) for subsequent offenses.
The violator may also be required to complete a community service program or
other appropriate programs or services as ordered by the court. The City of
Glenpool Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction over the violator for twelve
(12) months following sentencing to ensure all programs and orders of the court
are followed. (Ord. 817, 1-2-2024)
4-3B-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any conviction for a violation of this Article and any compliance
checks by a municipal police officer pursuant to subsection C of this section
shall be reported in writing to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE)
Commission within thirty (30) days of such conviction or compliance check. Such
reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
Convictions shall be reported by the Municipal Court Clerk or her designee and
compliance checks shall be reported by the Chief of Police or his designee.
   B.   For the purpose of determining second or subsequent violations, both
the offenses penalized by the ABLE Commission as administrative fines and the
offenses penalized by the municipality and reported to the ABLE Commission,
shall be considered together in such determination.
   C.   Persons under twenty-one (21) years of age may be enlisted by the
Police Department to assist in compliance checks and enforcement of this
Article pursuant to the rules of the ABLE Commission. (Ord. 817, 1-2-2024)
TITLE 5
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Short Title
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Findings And Declarations
5-1-4: Response Team Established; Composition
5-1-5: Emergency Powers
5-1-6: License Requirements
5-1-7: Exemption From Civil Liability
5-1-8: Appropriation Powers; Authority To Accept Gifts, Grants And Loans
5-1-9: Multihazard Mitigation Plan (Reserved)
5-1-10: Office, Equipment And Supplies
5-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE OF THE CITY
OF GLENPOOL, OKLAHOMA. (2002 Code § 2.60.010; amd. 2013 Code)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as provided in
this section:
EMERGENCY: Substantial and extraordinary risk of harm to persons or property
resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or from any
flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm, or other natural or manmade
catastrophe in or near the city, and involving imminent or actual peril to
persons and property in the city.
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency
functions other than functions for which primary responsibility is assigned
elsewhere by federal, state, or local law or ordinance, to protect the public
peace, health, and safety and to preserve persons and property in the city
during any emergency. These functions include administration, organization,
planning, recruiting, training, education, information, welfare service, relief
service, police service, fire service, rescue service, street and sewer
service, utilities service, general engineering service, plant protection
service, supply service, mutual aid, mobile support, evacuation, and all other
functions necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of
the foregoing functions.
ENEMY CAUSED EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by actual or impending
attack, sabotage, or other hostile action anywhere within the United States,
and involving imminent peril to persons and property in the city. Such
emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever any duly authorized officer of the
city shall so declare by public proclamation whether in writing or through any
electronic media, without limitation. Such emergency shall be deemed to
continue to exist until any duly authorized officer of the city shall declare
its termination by public proclamation or until the city council shall declare
its termination by resolution.
NATURAL EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by any actual or impending
flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm, or other catastrophe in or
near the city, and involving imminent peril to persons and property in the
city. Such emergency shall be deemed to exist and to be terminated under the
same conditions as prescribed for an "enemy caused emergency" as defined in
this section. (2002 Code § 2.60.020; amd. 2013 Code)
5-1-3: FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS:
   A.   Because of the existing and increasing possibility of the occurrence of
disasters of unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting from natural and
manmade causes, in order to ensure that preparations of the city will
adequately deal with such disasters and emergencies, to generally provide for
the common defense and to protect the public peace, health, and safety, to
preserve the persons and property of the city, and to carry out the objectives
of local, state and national survival and recovery in the event of a disaster
or emergency, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary to:
      1.   Create an emergency response team within the city administration;
      2.   Encourage the creation of an emergency management program;
      3.   Adopt and implement a FEMA approved multihazard mitigation plan to
meet, prevent or reduce emergencies in the general interest and welfare of the
city and its citizens; and
      4.   Provide for the rendering of mutual aid between the city and other
private and public agencies whose mission includes hazard mitigation.
   B.   It is further declared to be the policy of the city that all emergency
management and hazard mitigation functions of the city be coordinated to the
maximum feasible extent with the comparable functions of the state and federal
governments, including their various departments and agencies, and of private
agencies of every type, to the end that the most effective preparation and use
may be made of available workforce, resources and facilities for dealing with
disaster and hazard mitigation.
   C.   It is also directed that each department or officer having
responsibilities indicated in the multihazard mitigation plan or by the nature
of the service it provides shall have written plans and procedures in place to
protect individual employees, administrators and visitors from natural and
manmade disasters and emergencies occurring at the workplace.
   D.   The national incident management system (NIMS) shall be the standard
for incident management in the city. All on scene management of disasters and
emergencies shall be conducted using a designated incident command system
(ICS). (2013 Code)
5-1-4: RESPONSE TEAM ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There is established within the administrative and community development
departments of the city the emergency response team referenced in section
5-1-3 of this chapter. This team shall consist of the following:
   A.   Director:
      1.   Appointment: A director of the emergency management program shall be
appointed by the city manager and shall serve at the city manager's pleasure or
until the repeal of this chapter. The emergency management director shall meet
or exceed the qualification requirements established by the Oklahoma department
of emergency management pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 683.11(B), as
the same may be amended or replaced.
      2.   Duties:
         a.   The director shall be the head of the emergency response team and
shall be responsible to the city manager for carrying out the emergency
management program of the city. He or she shall coordinate the activities of
all organizations for the emergency management program within the city, and
shall maintain liaisons with and cooperate with emergency management agencies
and organizations of other governmental units both within and without the state
of Oklahoma, and of the federal government, and shall have such additional
authority, duties, and responsibilities as may be authorized under this
chapter. (2002 Code § 2.60.030; amd. 2013 Code)
         b.   The director shall have general direction and control of the
emergency management program and shall be responsible for carrying out the
provisions of this chapter. In so carrying out the provisions of this chapter,
the director is expressly authorized to cooperate, insofar as permitted by
other appropriate legislation, with the federal government, the government of
Oklahoma and its subdivisions, with other states and their subdivisions, and
with private agencies in all matters pertaining to the emergency management
program in the city. (2002 Code § 2.60.050; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Volunteers: Such other volunteer emergency management advisory
committees as may be created by the director for the evaluation of technical,
professional, or other phases of the work of the emergency management program,
and which may provide advisory assistance on any matters pertaining to the
city's emergency management program. (2002 Code § 2.60.030; amd. 2013 Code)
5-1-5: EMERGENCY POWERS:
   A.   Prior To Emergency: Prior to an "emergency", as defined in section
5-1-2 of this chapter, the director shall have the following powers:
      1.   To make, amend, and rescind any necessary orders, rules and
regulations to carry out the provisions of this chapter within the limits of
the authority conferred upon him or her herein, with due consideration to be
given to the plans and powers of the federal government, the government of
Oklahoma, and other public and private agencies and organizations empowered to
act in either enemy caused emergencies or natural emergencies, or both;
      2.   To prepare comprehensive plans for the emergency management program
of the city in both enemy caused and natural emergencies, such plans and
programs to be integrated and coordinated with the plans and programs of the
federal government, of the government of Oklahoma, and of other public and
private agencies and organizations empowered to act in either enemy caused or
natural emergencies, or both;
      3.   To establish, within the limits of funds available, a public warning
system composed of sirens, horns, or other acceptable warning devices;
      4.   To establish and carry out recruitment and training programs as may
be necessary or helpful to develop an adequate, qualified emergency management
volunteer corps;
      5.   To conduct drills, exercises, and similar programs as may be
necessary to develop a well trained, alert, fully prepared emergency management
program;
      6.   To make such studies and surveys of the industries, resources and
facilities of the city as he or she deems necessary to ascertain its
capabilities for the emergency management program, and plan for the most
efficient emergency use therefor;
      7.   On behalf of the city, to negotiate mutual aid arrangements with
surrounding communities, subject to the approval of the city council;
      8.   To delegate any administrative authority vested in him or her under
this chapter, and to provide for the subdelegation of any such authority;
      9.   To take any other action proper and lawful under his or her
authority to prepare for either an enemy caused or natural emergency. (2002
Code § 2.60.060; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Enemy Caused Emergencies: In the event of any actual enemy caused
emergency, as proclaimed by the city manager, the director of emergency
management, with the approval of the city manager, may exercise, during such
emergency, the power to enforce all rules and regulations relating to the
emergency management program and, acting under the authority of statutes now in
force or to be enacted, or under the authority of the city manager as an agent
of the governor of the state of Oklahoma, may take control of all means of
transportation and communications; all stocks of fuel, food, clothing,
medicine, and supplies; and all facilities including buildings and plants; and
exercise all powers necessary to secure the safety and protection of the
civilian population. In exercising such powers, he or she shall be guided by
regulations and orders issued by the federal government and the governor of the
state of Oklahoma relating to the emergency management program and shall take
no action contrary to orders which may be issued by the governor under similar
emergency powers. (2002 Code § 2.60.070; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Natural Emergencies: In the event of any natural emergency, as
proclaimed by the city manager, the director of emergency management, with the
approval of the city manager and acting under his or her instructions, shall
coordinate in every way proper the activities of the emergency management
program. He or she is specifically charged in such emergency with collection,
evaluation and dissemination of information to all agencies, both public and
private, participating in the city's emergency management program or
cooperating in any such emergency. He or she shall, as director, have the power
to recommend appropriate action, but he or she shall not otherwise have control
of the participating agencies. The director shall also recommend to the city
manager the allocation of any funds received from the federal or state
government or from any other source to alleviate distress and aid in restoring
normal conditions. (2002 Code § 2.60.080; amd. 2013 Code)
5-1-6: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any requirement for a license to practice any professional, mechanical,
or other skill shall not apply to any authorized emergency management worker
from any other jurisdiction rendering mutual aid and who holds a comparable
license in that jurisdiction, if required, who shall practice such
professional, mechanical, or other skill during an emergency declared under the
provisions of this chapter, when such professional, mechanical or other skill
is exercised in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The term "emergency management worker" shall include any full time or
part time paid, volunteer, or auxiliary employee of any political subdivision
of this state, or of any agency or organization, performing emergency
management services under state supervision, and who has been properly trained
in the performance of emergency management functions, at any place in this
state subject to the order or control of, or pursuant to a request of, the
state government or any political subdivision thereof. The term "emergency
management worker" shall not include any volunteer health practitioner subject
to the provisions of the uniform emergency volunteer health practitioners act.
(2013 Code)
5-1-7: EXEMPTION FROM CIVIL LIABILITY:
Neither the state of Oklahoma nor any political subdivision thereof nor any
officer or employee of the state of Oklahoma or of any political subdivision
thereof nor volunteer whose services have been accepted and utilized by any
department, agency or trust authority of the city for carrying out the
functions of this chapter shall be civilly liable for any loss or injury
resulting to any person's company, corporation or other legal entity as a
result of any decision, determination, order or action of such employee in the
performance of assigned duties and responsibilities under this chapter during a
stated emergency unless such loss or injury was caused by the gross negligence,
or wilfully and unnecessarily or by the wanton act of such state officer or
employee or volunteer. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to waive any
applicable immunity of the city from being sued. (2013 Code)
5-1-8: APPROPRIATION POWERS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT GIFTS, GRANTS AND LOANS:
   A.   The city shall have the power to make appropriations in the manner
provided by law for making appropriations for the ordinary expenses and for the
payment of expenses of the emergency management program.
   B.   Whenever the federal government or any agency or officer thereof shall
offer to the state, or through the state to the city, services, equipment,
supplies, materials, or funds by way of gift, grant, or loan, for purposes of
emergency management, acting with the consent of the city manager, may accept
such offer and, upon such acceptance, the city council may authorize any city
officer to receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds on
behalf of the city, subject to the terms of the offer and the rules and
regulations, if any, of the agency making the offer.
   C.   Whenever any person, firm, or corporation shall offer to the city
services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds by way of gift, grant, or
loan, for purposes of emergency management, the city, acting through the city
manager, may accept such offer and, upon such acceptance, the city manager may
authorize any city officer to receive such services, equipment, supplies,
materials, or funds on behalf of the city and subject to the terms of the
offer.
   D.   The city shall have the power to provide, by ordinances or otherwise,
for a local emergency management program, and shall have power to make
appropriations for emergency management and disaster relief in the manner
provided by law for making appropriations for ordinary expenses, and shall have
power to enter into agreements for the purpose of organizing emergency
management process; to provide for a mutual method of financing the emergency
management program on a basis approved by the state emergency management
director and satisfactory to the city council, but in which case the funds
appropriated by the city and any other funds provided for the emergency
management program for such mutual purpose shall be nonfiscal funds and shall
be placed on deposit with the county treasurer as custodian of such emergency
management funds, and from which expenditures may be made on forms prescribed
by the state auditor and inspector, in accordance with procedures approved by
the state emergency management director; and shall have power to render aid to
other political subdivisions under mutual aid agreements; provided, that the
functioning of the emergency management program shall be coordinated by the
state emergency management director and the director's staff according to plans
promulgated for that purpose. (2013 Code)
5-1-9: MULTIHAZARD MITIGATION PLAN:
Reserved.
5-1-10: OFFICE, EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES:
Appropriate office space, furniture, equipment, and supplies as required shall
be provided for the office for the emergency management program. Expenditures
for these purposes, within the appropriations therefor, shall be made only as
provided by ordinance for purchasing by the city. The director shall also,
within the appropriations therefor, establish a primary and one or more
secondary incident commands, as he or she deems necessary, to serve during an
enemy caused or a natural emergency. (2002 Code § 2.60.040; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MEDICAL SERVICES
ARTICLE A. EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Definitions
5-2A-2: Medical Director
5-2A-3: EMS Request Call Processing
5-2A-4: Insurance Requirements
5-2A-5: Ambulance Response Time Performance Required
5-2A-6: Refusal To Transport Prohibited
5-2A-7: Denial, Revocation Or Suspension Of License Or Certification
5-2A-8: Violations; Exemptions
5-2A-9: Penalty
5-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article and, as applicable, article B of this chapter,
the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
AMBULANCE: Any ground, air or water vehicle which is approved by the Oklahoma
commissioner of health pursuant to the Oklahoma emergency response systems
development act in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the
Oklahoma board of health, and which is designed and equipped to transport a
patient or patients and to provide appropriate on scene and en route patient
stabilization and emergency medical care as required. Vehicles used as
ambulances within the GEMS district, as defined herein, shall meet such
standards as may be required by the Oklahoma board of health for approval, and
shall display evidence of such approval at all times.
AMBULANCE RESPONSE TIME STANDARD: A standard, set by contract, which creates a
fixed measurement by which to evaluate an ambulance service's effectiveness.
AMBULANCE SERVICE: Any person or organization, governmental or private, which
is licensed by the Oklahoma department of health to provide levels of medical
care based on certification standards promulgated by the Oklahoma board of
health, and operates one or more ambulances, as defined in this section, for
purposes stated herein.
AMBULANCE SERVICE AGREEMENT: That certain agreement which may be, and to be
effective shall be, approved by and among the governing body of the city, the
GEMS district board of trustees and a duly authorized representative of a
licensed ambulance service provider to provide emergency medical services, as
defined in this section, nonemergency medical services and licensed emergency
medical personnel for residents of the GEMS district, as defined herein.
AMBULANCE SERVICE PROVIDER: Any licensed public or private ambulance service
that agrees to provide emergency and nonemergency medical services and licensed
emergency medical personnel to residents of the GEMS district in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the "ambulance service agreement" or in
accordance with a "mutual aid agreement", as those terms are defined in this
section.
BASE STATION PHYSICIAN: A physician licensed to practice medicine in the state
of Oklahoma, from whom ambulance and emergency medical response agency
personnel may take medical direction by radio or other remote communications
device; and is or who has been certified by the "medical director", as defined
in this section, as being knowledgeable of the EMS system's medical protocols,
radio procedures, and the general operating policies of the EMS system.
CALL DISPATCHER: The police department communications facility operated by the
city police department; or any successor facility as approved by the GEMS board
of trustees, which is charged with initially receiving and transmitting
emergency medical service calls to the emergency medical responders and to the
ambulance service provider's control center.
CONTROL CENTER: The communications facility operated by the ambulance service
provider; or any successor facility as approved by the GEMS board of trustees.
CONTROL CENTER OPERATOR: A person certified by the medical director as trained
and competent to employ telephone algorithms, priority dispatching protocols,
and prearrival instructions approved by the medical director, and to operate
the control center's computer aided dispatch system in accordance with
applicable standards so as to maintain the best possible ambulance coverage of
the GEMS district, given the resources available at any point in time.
DISTRICT ADMINISTRATOR: With respect to the special annual recurring ad valorem
tax levy set at three (3) mills on the dollar of assessed valuation of all
taxable property in the GEMS district, as such sum may be changed by vote of
the qualified voters of the GEMS district or by amendment of the state
constitution, the city shall act as administrator of all GEMS funding, as
provided by the "operational agreement", as defined herein. With respect to
clerical, recordkeeping, legal, administrative and emergency medical response
agency services necessary for the operation of GEMS, those services shall be
provided by employees of the city, subject to reimbursement of the city's
reasonable cost, all as provided by the operational agreement.
EMERGENCY CALL: A request for ambulance service by or for a patient whose
apparent condition, at the time the call is received, presumptively meets the
criteria for classification as a priority 2 or priority 3 call, as defined in
this section and when classified in accordance with telephone algorithms and
priority dispatch protocols approved by the medical director.
EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONDER: Any fire department personnel who is employed by
the city and is certified or licensed, as applicable, in accordance with the
Oklahoma emergency response systems development act and in accordance with
rules and regulations promulgated by the Oklahoma board of health, and is so
designated by the medical director, to perform emergency medical services as
defined in this section to the extent authorized by law, and conforming to
protocols established by the medical director.
EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONSE AGENCY: Glenpool fire department members who are
certified by the Oklahoma department of health in accordance with the Oklahoma
emergency response systems development act and in accordance with rules and
regulations promulgated by the Oklahoma board of health; are so designated by
the medical director, to perform emergency medical services, as defined in this
section, and conforming to protocols established by the medical director; and
constituting the department authorized to provide appropriate emergency medical
services at the scene of an incident requiring emergency medical services,
excluding transport, as further provided by article B of this chapter, and
under the direction and control of, and pursuant to protocols established by,
the medical director. The emergency medical response agency may utilize
certified emergency medical responders or licensed emergency medical personnel,
as those terms are defined in 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1-2503(7) and (17),
as so designated by the city and under the direction and control of the medical
director.
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES (EMS): The following prehospital and interhospital
services:
Access And Coordination: The answering and processing of telephone requests (or
requests from other media) from the public for ambulance or emergency medical
response agency services, including EMS dispatching, emergency and routine, and
the giving of medical prearrival instructions to a caller by telephone; but
excluding the process of 911 call taking by the EMS control center.
Emergency Medical Response Agency Services: Those emergency services, excluding
transportation, which are performed by one or more emergency medical
responders, as defined in this section, under the direction and control of the
medical director and who are certified by the Oklahoma department of health in
accordance with the Oklahoma emergency response systems development act and in
accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the board of health, to
perform emergency medical services.
Medical Transportation: Ambulance services, both emergency and routine,
including patient assessment, transportation, and medical procedures performed
on scene, en route, during interfacility transport, or at an emergency
receiving facility when performed at the request of the receiving physician.
Online Medical Direction: Instructions given by a base station physician to
emergency medical responders or ambulance personnel at the scene of an
emergency, while en route to a hospital or during an interfacility patient
transfer.
GLENPOOL AREA EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE DISTRICT ("GEMS" District): The
emergency medical service district, as defined in and having all powers, duties
and privileges provided under the Oklahoma constitution, article X, section 9C,
that was created by vote of the qualified voters of the Glenpool public school
district on February 22, 1983, is governed by the GEMS district board of
trustees, and is established to provide ambulance services to the city of
Glenpool and the Glenpool public school district.
HELICOPTER RESCUE UNIT: Any rotary wing aircraft which provides basic or
advanced life support and transportation of ill or injured patients by
responding directly to scenes of medical emergencies. A helicopter used solely
for the purpose of interfacility patient transports shall not be classified as
a helicopter rescue unit.
MEDICAL DIRECTOR: The licensed physician appointed by the GEMS district board,
or by contract with the ambulance service provider, to perform the duties and
responsibilities granted and ascribed to the medical director herein. The
medical director may be an employee of the city in the absence of an ambulance
service agreement, but is otherwise an employee of, or contractor with, the
licensed ambulance service provider so designated by the ambulance service
agreement.
MEDICAL PROTOCOL: Any diagnosis specific or problem oriented written statement
of standard procedure, or algorithm, promulgated by the medical director as the
medically appropriate standard of prehospital care for a given condition.
MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT: A written agreement between the ambulance service
provider designated by the ambulance service agreement and a neighboring
primary provider of emergency medical services approved by the medical director
as to its quality of care and medical accountability, whereby the signing
parties agree to lend emergency aid to one another subject to conditions and
terms specified in the agreement.
OPERATIONAL AGREEMENT: That certain agreement entered into by and between the
city and the GEMS district to provide for specified administrative, clerical,
legal and emergency medical responder functions to be provided by the city for
the benefit of GEMS, and to assign specified budgetary functions to GEMS, and
such other terms and conditions as may affect the working relationship between
the city and GEMS as such terms and conditions are set forth in said
operational agreement.
PATIENT: Any individual who is ill, sick, injured, wounded or incapacitated,
and who is in need of, or is at risk of needing, medical care or assessment
before or during transportation to or from a healthcare facility, and who may
be transported in a reclining position, as determined in accordance with
applicable provisions established by the medical director.
PERSON: Means and includes any individual, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, or other group or combination acting as a unit.
PRESUMPTIVE PRIORITY CLASSIFICATION: The preliminary (not confirmed)
designation given by the control center operator in accordance with telephone
algorithms and priority dispatching protocols approved by the medical director.
A presumptive priority classification identifies the likely urgency of the call
and the patient's condition that may be anticipated by emergency medical
service personnel but is not a confirmatory diagnosis.
PRIORITY: The call priority number (i.e., priority 1, 2, 3, or 4) assigned to
every request for service received by control center personnel (i.e., call
dispatch or the control center operator), pursuant to telephone algorithms and
priority dispatch protocols established by the medical director. Presumptive
priority classifications shall be consistent with the following definitions:
Priority 1 Call: A presumptively classified request for routine patient
transport.
Priority 2 Call: A presumptively classified non-life threatening emergency
call.
Priority 3 Call: A presumptively classified life threatening emergency call.
Priority 4 Call: A presumptively classified request for service which is not
classified as an emergency life threatening priority classification, but which
requires the assistance of the closest and/or fastest ambulance unit.
RESPONSE TIME - AMBULANCE: The actual elapsed time between receipt by an
ambulance of the essential information needed to initiate a response, and the
arrival of the ambulance service provider or mutual aid ambulance at the scene
of the incident. For purposes of this definition, the essential information
shall include location information obtained from a 911 database, confirmation
that the incident location is the same as that of the caller, or the patient's
actual location.
RESPONSE TIME - EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONDER: The actual elapsed time between
notification of the emergency medical response agency by the call dispatcher
that an emergency medical response unit is needed at a given location, and the
arrival of such emergency medical response unit at the incident scene.
ROUTINE TRANSPORT CALL: A request for ambulance service by or for a patient
whose apparent condition at the time the call is received presumptively meets
the criteria for classification as priority 1 or priority 4, when classified in
accordance with telephone algorithms and priority dispatch protocols approved
by the medical director.
SPECIAL EVENTS AMBULANCE STANDBY SERVICE: The positioning of an ambulance and/
or emergency medical responders at the location of a public or privately
sponsored event, as required, directed or approved by lawful authority.
SYSTEM STANDARD OF CARE: The written body of standards, policies, and protocols
governing all clinical aspects of the EMS system, which is approved by the
medical director, and which is developed and periodically updated. As used in
this context, system standard of care is a comprehensive term including:
   A.   Input standards including, but not limited to, personnel certification
requirements, in service training requirements, equipment specifications, on
board inventory requirements, and other requirements which the system must
fulfill before response to a request for service may be effected;
   B.   Performance standards including, but not limited to, priority
dispatching protocols and prearrival instructions, medical protocols, standing
orders, response time standards, protocols governing authority for on scene
control of patient care, and other performance specifications describing how
the system should respond upon receipt of a request for service; and
   C.   Outcome standards including, but not limited to, target survival rates
for certain narrowly defined presenting problems or presumptive diagnoses, such
as witnessed cardiac arrests involving patients whose medical histories meet
defined criteria. Outcome standards are results the system intends to achieve
by meeting its input and performance standards. (Ord. 694, 3-2-2015)
5-2A-2: MEDICAL DIRECTOR:
The medical director is appointed by the city in the absence of an ambulance
service agreement and otherwise by the ambulance service provider, establishes
the system standard of care applicable to emergency medical services and
oversees the credentials and performance of all emergency medical services
personnel. The medical director shall establish a system standard of care
designed to achieve a quality of emergency medical services within the GEMS
district consistent with all applicable medical and legal professional
standards, and shall have those powers and duties granted and ascribed to him
or her by the ambulance service provider, subject to approval by the GEMS
district board, plus such additional powers and duties as may be granted to him
or her by law or by the ambulance service provider. (Ord. 694, 3-2-2015)
5-2A-3: EMS REQUEST CALL PROCESSING:
   A.   All telephone requests for ambulance or other emergency medical
services, originating from within the GEMS district shall be initially directed
to the call dispatcher and shall be directed by the call dispatcher to, and
terminate at, the control center, where the control center operator (CCO) shall
establish the call's presumptive priority classification, determine the
patient's location and, if appropriate, deliver prearrival instructions in
accordance with the system standard of care. The call dispatcher shall also
transmit a call to the emergency medical response agency for an appropriate
response.
   B.   It is unlawful for any ambulance service provider to publish or
advertise a telephone number for the purpose of soliciting requests for
emergency ambulance service, except the emergency number (911) of the call
dispatcher. It shall also be unlawful for any ambulance service provider to
publish or advertise a telephone number which does not terminate at the call
dispatcher.
   C.   If multiple ambulance service providers are simultaneously contracted
by the ambulance service agreement and/or a mutual aid agreement, the
allocation of emergency calls among the multiple ambulance services shall be in
accordance with call dispatcher protocols approved by the city manager or his/
her designee and the medical director.
   D.   During times of disaster or severe EMS system overload as declared by
the city's emergency management program director appointed in accordance with
chapter 1 of this title or by the ambulance service provider based on
established criteria, the control center shall have the authority to direct the
positioning movements and run responses of all ambulance units of all ambulance
service providers until such time as the declaration has been lifted.
   E.   All calls processed by the call dispatcher and directed to the control
center shall be recorded to facilitate subsequent auditing of the CCO's actions
and decisions by the medical director, and all such recordings shall be safely
stored and shall be erased after an appropriate interval or as provided by law.
(Ord. 694, 3-2-2015)
5-2A-4: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each ambulance service provider shall keep in full force and effect a
policy or policies of public liability and property damage insurance, issued by
a casualty insurance company authorized to do business in the state of
Oklahoma, with coverage provisions insuring the public from any loss or damage
that may arise to any person or property by reason of the operation of the
ambulance service provider ambulance(s), and providing that the amount of
recovery shall be in limits of not less than the following sums:
      1.   For damages arising out of bodily injury to, or death of, one person
in any one incident, not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
      2.   For damages arising out of bodily injury to, or death of, two (2) or
more persons in any one incident, not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00).
      3.   For injury to, or destruction of, property in any one incident, not
less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
   B.   Each ambulance service provider shall keep in full force and effect a
general comprehensive liability and professional liability policy or policies
issued by a casualty insurance company authorized to do business in the state
of Oklahoma, with coverage provisions insuring the public from any loss or
damage that may arise to any person or property by reason of the actions of the
ambulance service provider or any of its employees, and providing that the
amount of recovery shall be in limits of not less than three million dollars
($3,000,000.00).
   C.   Each ambulance service provider shall furnish to the GEMS district
administrator, as a condition of the ambulance service agreement, an original
and duplicate certificate of insurance which shall indicate the types of
insurance, the amounts of insurance and the expiration dates of all policies
carried by the ambulance service provider. Each certificate of insurance shall
name the GEMS district as an additional named insured, and shall contain a
statement by the insurer issuing the certificate that the policies of insurance
listed thereon will not be canceled or materially altered by the insurer absent
thirty (30) days' written notice received by the GEMS district.
   D.   Cancellation or material alteration of a required insurance policy or
coverage shall automatically terminate the ambulance service agreement and the
ambulance service shall thereupon cease and desist from further operations in
the GEMS district. (Ord. 694, 3-2-2015)
5-2A-5: AMBULANCE RESPONSE TIME PERFORMANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Every ambulance service provider, as a condition of the ambulance
service agreement, shall employ sufficient certified personnel, acquire
sufficient equipment, and manage its resources as necessary to achieve response
time standards on all emergency calls and routine transport calls originating
within the GEMS district and received by the ambulance service provider, or
referred to the ambulance service provider by the call dispatcher as specified
by the ambulance service agreement.
   B.   In the event of an onset of such inclement weather or other disaster
that the medical director or his or her designee, in his or her sole
discretion, believes that the threat to a GEMS district patient care presented
by complying with response time standards outweighs the threat to such patient
care from a delayed response, the medical director or his or her designee may
declare an emergency, thus suspending these response time requirements until
the declaration is lifted. During such periods, all ambulance service providers
shall use best efforts to provide maximum safe coverage throughout the GEMS
district. Runs made to calls originating during a period in which an emergency
has been declared in accordance with this section shall be excluded from
response time calculations until the declaration has been lifted. An emergency
will be declared only in times of unusual and extremely hazardous driving
conditions, such as ice storms, freezing drizzle, extensive flooding, thick fog
or similarly dangerous or impassable road conditions. (Ord. 694, 3-2-2015)
5-2A-6: REFUSAL TO TRANSPORT PROHIBITED:
It shall be a violation of this article for any ambulance service provider to
fail to respond to a call or transport or render emergency medical patient
assessment and treatment, as appropriate, or to otherwise refuse or fail to
provide any emergency medical services the need for which originated within the
GEMS district because of a patient's perceived, demonstrated or stated
inability to pay for such services; because of the location of the patient
within the GEMS district; or because of the unavailable status or location of
any ambulance unit at the time of the request. Repeated violations of this
section shall be grounds to terminate the ambulance service agreement. (Ord.
694, 3-2-2015)
5-2A-7: DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE OR CERTIFICATION:
For any proposed denial, suspension or revocation of any license or
certification required for the administration of emergency medical services by
any emergency medical services provider operating within the GEMS district, the
following standards and procedures shall apply:
   A.   Written notice of any charges pending against, or complaints being
investigated with respect to, the provider of EMS whose license or
certification may be suspended or revoked shall be directed to the GEMS
district board;
   B.   A written or verbal response to such charge(s) or complaint(s) shall be
directed to the GEMS district board to the extent required by the licensing or
certifying agency that is considering suspension or revocation within ten (10)
days of such response being provided to such agency;
   C.   Any adverse action taken by any licensing or certifying agency with
respect to any emergency medical services provider shall be reported in writing
to the GEMS district board within ten (10) days of notice of such action being
provided to the affected provider;
   D.   Any action taken by the GEMS district board, to include, without
limitation, demanding that the affected provider be terminated from employment
as a provider of emergency medical services for the GEMS district and
termination of the ambulance service agreement, shall be final and
nonappealable, provided that the board shall provide the ambulance service
provider with a minimum of ten (10) days' notice and an opportunity to be heard
before such action is taken. (Ord. 694, 3-2-2015)
5-2A-8: VIOLATIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to commit any of the
following acts:
      1.   To allow any person to work as an ambulance driver, attendant or any
other provider of emergency medical services without a current valid
certification or license as required by and issued pursuant to this article;
      2.   To use, or cause to be used, an ambulance service provider other
than an ambulance service provider holding a valid license issued pursuant to
this article, except for those services described in subsection B of this
section;
      3.   For any person, firm or organization to respond to emergency calls
originating within the GEMS district which is not a holder of a valid emergency
ambulance service license issued pursuant to this article and which is not
joined by contract to the city and the GEMS district pursuant to the ambulance
service agreement or a mutual aid agreement;
      4.   For any person, firm or organization to provide rescue helicopter
service to emergency incidents within the GEMS district which is not a holder
of a valid license issued pursuant to this article;
      5.   For any person, firm or organization to respond to routine transport
calls originating within the GEMS district which is not a holder of a valid
routine transport ambulance service license issued pursuant to this article; or
      6.   To give false information knowingly to induce the dispatch of an
ambulance, emergency medical responder or helicopter rescue unit.
   B.   It shall not be a violation of this article, and no emergency or
routine transport license shall be required, if the vehicle responding to a
medical call is:
      1.   A privately owned vehicle not used in the business of transporting
patients who are sick, injured, wounded, incapacitated or helpless;
      2.   A vehicle rendering services as an ambulance in the event of a
declared major catastrophe or declared emergency when ambulances with permits
based in the locality of the catastrophe or emergency are incapacitated or
insufficient in number to render the services needed;
      3.   An ambulance owned or operated by, or under written contract with,
the local, federal or state government; or
      4.   An ambulance transporting a patient from a location outside the GEMS
district to a location within the GEMS district.
   C.   Subsections A and B of this section to the contrary notwithstanding,
any and all provisions set forth in this section shall not apply to any
ambulance service provider who shall be joined in contract with the city and
the GEMS district as the designated ambulance service provider, provided that
such ambulance service provider is not in material breach of any of the terms
and conditions of the ambulance service agreement. (Ord. 694, 3-2-2015)
5-2A-9: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this article shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. Each day that any violation of the provisions of this
article is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 694, 3-2-2015)
ARTICLE B. EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONSE AGENCY
SECTION:
5-2B-1: Emergency Medical Response Agency Established And Designated
5-2B-2: Duties
5-2B-3: Requirements
5-2B-4: Compliance Required
5-2B-5: Penalty
5-2B-1: EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONSE AGENCY ESTABLISHED AND DESIGNATED:
The "emergency medical response agency", as defined in article A of this
chapter, consists of one or more employees of the city of Glenpool, one of whom
shall be designated the director of the emergency medical response agency, and
all of whom shall at all times be certified by the state department of health
in accordance with the Oklahoma emergency response systems development act and
in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the state board of
health. The function of the emergency medical response agency is to provide
assistance to the ambulance service provider, as provided by the "operational
agreement" and the "ambulance service agreement", as those terms are defined
and used in article A of this chapter, under the direction and control of the
medical director. (Ord. 694, 3-2-2015)
5-2B-2: DUTIES:
The emergency medical response agency shall provide emergency medical services
in accordance with the directives and perimeters identified in article A of
this chapter and under the direction of the medical director. (Ord. 694, 3-2-
2015)
5-2B-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Certification Required: Any emergency medical responder, prior to
providing emergency medical services within the GEMS district, shall first be
certified by the Oklahoma department of health in accordance with the Oklahoma
emergency response systems development act and in accordance with the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Oklahoma board of health, and shall be
recognized by the city as a person or entity qualified and employed by the city
to provide such services within the GEMS district limits. (Ord. 694, 3-2-2015)
5-2B-4: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
A designated emergency medical responder shall, in all circumstances, maintain
a level of training and qualification as designated by all local, state and
federal regulatory agencies, which may be applicable to the provision of
appropriate emergency medical services under the direction of the medical
director. In addition, such emergency medical responder shall be familiar with
and comply with all applicable rules and regulations contained within article A
of this chapter. (Ord. 694, 3-2-2015)
5-2B-5: PENALTY:
Any person or other entity providing emergency medical responder services
within the GEMS district who shall not have first become qualified pursuant to
the provisions set forth in this article and in article A of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code, with each day constituting a separate offense. (Ord. 694,
3-2-2015)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Emergency Telephone Service Established; Fees
5-3-3: Collection Of Fees; Remittance To City; Administrative Fee
5-3-4: Administration Of Emergency Telephone Service
5-3-5: Participation On Emergency Service Management Board
5-3-6: Voice Over Internet Protocol
5-3-7: False Alarm, Complaint Or Information
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
CITY: The city of Glenpool, Oklahoma, a municipal corporation.
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE FEE: A fee used to finance the operation of the emergency
telephone service so as to provide service users within the corporate limits of
the city access to the emergency telephone service.
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE: A telephone system utilizing a three (3) digit
number, enhanced 911, for reporting any emergency to the appropriate public
agency providing law enforcement, fire, medical, or other emergency services
within the corporate limits of the city.
LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE COMPANY: Any company providing exchange telephone
service to any service user within the corporate limits of the city.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, copartnership, joint venture
association, cooperative organization, private corporation, whether organized
for profit or not, fraternal organization, nonprofit organization, estate,
trust, business or common law trust, receiver, assignee of the benefit of
creditors, trustee or trustee in bankruptcy, the state, political subdivisions
of the state, state agencies, departments, commissions, boards, bureaus or any
other service user within the corporate limits of the city.
SERVICE USER: Any person not lawfully exempted from the fee defined herein who
is provided exchange telephone service within the corporate limits of the city.
TARIFF RATE: The rate or rates billed by the local exchange telephone company
stated in tariffs applicable for such company as approved by the Oklahoma
corporation commission, which represents the recurring charges of the local
exchange telephone company for exchange telephone service or its equivalent,
exclusive of all taxes, fees, licenses or similar charges whatsoever.
VoIP: Voice over internet protocol.
VoIP CARRIER: A person who offers dial tone telephone service to a customer
under authority of the federal communications commission and who is required to
collect a fee for funding of emergency telephone service.
WIRELESS CARRIER: A person who offers a wireless telephone service and who is
required to collect a fee for funding of emergency telephone service. (2002
Code § 8.12.010; amd. Ord. 588, 2-19-2008; 2013 Code)
5-3-2: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE ESTABLISHED; FEES:
   A.   Service Established: Provisions are hereby established for the
operation of an emergency telephone (“9-1-1”) service within the city.
   B.   Fee Established: There is hereby imposed an emergency telephone service
fee in accordance with state law upon customers and users of such service to be
collected and remitted to the city by the local exchange telephone company
providing the 9-1-1 service (the “9-1-1 Service Provider”).
      1.   The city council is hereby authorized to impose such emergency
telephone service fee at the rate of up to five per cent (5%) of the tariff
rate, as defined in section 5-3-1 of this code, upon customers and users of
such service to be collected and remitted to the city by the 9-1-1 Service
Provider.
      2.   The city council is further authorized to allow the 9-1-1 Service
Provider to retain up to three percent (3%) of the total amount of the service
fee collected as an administrative fee.
      3.   The 9-1-1 Service Provider shall apply the first monies received
from service users to satisfy the emergency number charge, with remaining funds
to be credited for telephone charges, and forward the net proceeds collected in
one (1) month to the City of Glenpool, “ATTN: City Treasurer,” no later than
thirty (30) days after the close of the month in which such fees were
collected, pursuant to Section 2815(A.) of the Nine-One-One Emergency Number
Act, 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 2811, et seq.
      4.   The city council shall review the emergency telephone service fee at
least once each calendar year by no later than September 1 and shall establish
the amount of the fee for the next calendar year.
      5.   Immediately upon fixing the new fee, the city council must publish
it in the minutes and must notify every 9-1-1 Service Provider within the
jurisdiction of the city of Glenpool of the new fee by certified mail.
      6.   The city council shall, as a part of the annual audit required by
law, conduct an annual audit of any accounts established or used for the
operation of the emergency telephone system. This audit may be conducted by the
State Auditor and Inspector in accordance with 74 Oklahoma Statutes section
212A at the discretion of the city council. A copy of the audit must be filed
with the State Auditor and Inspector. The cost of the audit of emergency
telephone system accounts may be paid for and be considered a part of the
operating expenses of the emergency telephone system.
      7.   The governing body shall meet at least quarterly to oversee the
operations of the emergency telephone system, review expenditures, and approve
an operating budget for the operation and management of the system. This duty
may be delegated to the Regional Emergency Communication District created in
accordance with the Regional Emergency 9-1-1 Services Act at 63 Oklahoma
Statutes section 2870 and 2871.
   C.   Compliance With State Law; Liability For Fees; Failure To Pay:
      1.   The emergency telephone fee shall be imposed only as permitted by
state law. Every billed service user shall be liable for any fee imposed
pursuant to this chapter until it has been paid to the local exchange telephone
company or other provider of dial tone.
      2.   Any service user wilfully failing or refusing to remit or pay any
emergency telephone fee or portion thereof rightfully due under this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code, excluding costs. Each separate failure or refusal to
remit or pay the emergency telephone fee set forth herein shall be deemed a
separate offense and shall be punished accordingly.
   D.   Indication On Bills: Fees imposed pursuant to the authority of this
chapter and that are required to be collected by the local exchange telephone
company or any other provider of dial tone shall be added to and may be stated
separately in the billings to the service user.
   E.   Use Of Proceeds: Proceeds shall be utilized to pay for the equipment
and operation of emergency telephone and dispatch service.
(Ord. 588, 2-19-2008; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 764, 6-17-2019)
5-3-3: COLLECTION OF FEES; REMITTANCE TO CITY; ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
   A.   Collection:
      1.   Any fee imposed pursuant to the authority provided by this chapter
shall be collected, insofar as practicable, at the same time as, and along
with, charges for telephone service in accordance with the regular billing
practice of the local telephone company.
      2.   The local exchange telephone company or other provider of dial tone
shall have no obligation to take any legal action to enforce the collection of
any fee imposed pursuant to the authority in this chapter; however, should any
service user tender a payment insufficient to satisfy all charges, tariffs,
fees and taxes for telephone service, the amount tendered shall be credited to
the emergency telephone fee in the same manner as other taxes and fees. The
local telephone exchange company or other provider of dial tone shall annually
provide the city treasurer with a list of amounts uncollected along with the
names and addresses of those service users who carry a balance that can be
determined by the local exchange telephone company or other provider of a dial
tone or to be nonpayment of any fee imposed pursuant to the authority of this
chapter. (Ord. 588, 2-19-2008)
   B.   Remittance To City; Administrative Fee:
      1.   The fees imposed pursuant to the authority of this chapter and the
amounts required to be collected are due monthly. The amount of fee collected
in one month shall be remitted to the city treasurer no later than thirty (30)
days after the close of the month in which such fees were collected. On or
before the last day of each month, a return for the preceding month shall be
filed with the city treasurer in such form as the city treasurer shall require.
The local exchange telephone company or the dial tone provider required to file
the return shall deliver the return, together with remittance of the amount of
fees payable to the city treasurer for deposit into a special revenue fund. The
local exchange telephone company or other provider of dial tone shall maintain
records of the amount of any fee collected in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Such records shall be maintained for a period of three (3) years
from the time the fee was collected unless a shorter holding period is
authorized or a longer period is required by state law. (Ord. 588, 2-19-2008;
amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   From every remittance to the city treasurer made on or before the
date when same becomes due, the local exchange telephone company or other
provider of dial tone required to remit the same shall be entitled to deduct
and retain, as an administrative fee, an amount not exceeding three percent
(3%). (Ord. 588, 2-19-2008)
5-3-4: ADMINISTRATION OF EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE:
Enhanced 911 emergency telephone services of the city shall be under the
administration of the city police department. The police department is
authorized, empowered and charged with the duty to maintain, operate and
administer the emergency telephone service and to coordinate with the
operational requirements of the emergency telephone service management board.
(2002 Code § 8.12.040)
5-3-5: PARTICIPATION ON EMERGENCY SERVICE MANAGEMENT BOARD:
The city, through its city manager, shall designate a representative to serve
on the emergency service management board, or similar entity created by other
local authorities when required or instructed to do so. (2002 Code § 8.12.050)
5-3-6: VOICE OVER INTERNET PROTOCOL:
   A.   In addition to all other fees imposed by ordinance, or by a vote of the
citizens of Tulsa County, the city council hereby adopts and imposes a fee upon
voice over internet protocol (VoIP) customers whose business or residences are
located within the city at a rate in accordance with state law for the support
of emergency telephone service.
   B.   All VoIP carriers shall provide an annual census of customers to the
city no later than sixty (60) days after the first day of each calendar year
and shall collect and remit such fee to the city under the terms and provisions
of this chapter, which are hereby made fully applicable to VoIP carriers and
customers. (Ord. 619, 7-20-2009; amd. 2013 Code)
5-3-7: FALSE ALARM, COMPLAINT OR INFORMATION:
No person shall call the number 911 for the purpose of making a false alarm or
complaint or reporting false information which could result in the dispatch of
emergency services from any public agency, as defined in section
5-3-1 of this chapter. Any person violating the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code, excluding costs. (Ord. 588, 2-19-2008; amd. 2013 Code)
TITLE 6
MISDEMEANORS, NUISANCES AND ANIMALS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Offense Defined
6-1-2: Statutory Offenses Incorporated
6-1-3: Attempt To Commit An Offense
6-1-4: Aiding In An Offense
6-1-1: OFFENSE DEFINED:
The word "offense", whenever used in this title, means, without limitation, the
nonperformance of any acts required and/or the committing of any acts
prohibited by this code and, where this code is silent, so required or
prohibited by any state statute pertaining to the same conduct, or otherwise
construed herein to be detrimental to the general welfare, morals, peace,
health or safety of the inhabitants of the city, whether or not such offense
may be prosecuted in the Glenpool municipal court or shall be within the
jurisdiction of the district court for Tulsa County. (Ord. 642, 1-3-2011)
6-1-2: STATUTORY OFFENSES INCORPORATED:
A violation of the law in the city shall include, without limitation, the
nonperformance of any acts required and/or the committing of any acts
prohibited by this code and, where this code is silent, so required or
prohibited by any state statute pertaining to the same conduct, whether or not
such violation may be prosecuted in the Glenpool municipal court or shall be
within the jurisdiction of the district court for Tulsa County. (Ord. 642, 1-3-
2011)
6-1-3: ATTEMPT TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the offense
itself. (2002 Code § 9.04.020)
6-1-4: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling, aiding, or abetting in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels, aids or abets another in the commission of such is guilty of an
offense and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (2002 Code
§ 9.04.030)
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-1A-1: Damage To Property Generally
6-1A-2: Placing Advertisements Without Permission
6-1A-3: Throwing Or Shooting Objects
6-1A-4: Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
6-1A-5: Unlawful Intrusion Upon Land
6-1A-6: Trespass
6-1A-7: Removal Of Barricades
6-1A-8: Trash And Litter Deposits
6-1A-1: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY GENERALLY:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, or damage any
structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use. (2002 Code § 9.16.020; amd. 2013 Code)
6-1A-2: PLACING ADVERTISEMENTS WITHOUT PERMISSION:
It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark,
write, or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill,
placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle, or other property
of another without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (2002
Code § 9.16.030)
6-1A-3: THROWING OR SHOOTING OBJECTS:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot, or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he or she is
likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot, or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light, or other property of another (whether public or private),
except in the case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person
or of property. (2002 Code § 9.16.040)
6-1A-4: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES:
It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire, or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire, or other conductor carrying gas,
water, sewer, or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether
publicly or privately owned), or a public authority, in such a manner as to
enable him or her to consume or use the gas, water, sewer or electricity
without its passing through the meter or in any other way so as to evade
payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person to damage, tamper with, or
destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or other part of any public authority or
public utility, including telegraph and telephone systems or cable television
systems. (2002 Code § 9.16.050; amd. 2013 Code)
6-1A-5: UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND:
Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or piece of land within the
city without license or authority from the owner thereof, or who erects or
occupies thereon any hut, hovel, shanty, or other structure without such
license or authority, and every person who places, erects, or occupies within
the bounds of any street, alley or avenue of the city any hut, hovel, shanty,
or other structure whatever is guilty of an offense. (2002 Code § 9.16.060)
6-1A-6: TRESPASS:
"Trespassing" is declared to be an offense and shall be defined as follows:
   A.   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of another person's real
property, public or private, without the owner's or occupant's consent thereof,
whether expressed or implied;
   B.   Each and every entry upon any public or private premises which is
posted or where a warning has been published to stay out of and off the
premises;
   C.   Each and every entry in or upon public property, except at times and
upon conditions when the same is subject to public use;
   D.   The use of any public building, except for the purpose of transacting
business with a public corporation, unless the manner, purpose and extent of
its use is first presented and the consent given by the city council or the
city manager;
   E.   Remaining upon the premises of another, whether public or private, and
refusing to leave the premises forthwith after demand by the owner or occupant,
or the lawful agent thereof;
   F.   Remaining upon property owned by or in possession of the Glenpool
public school system or any parochial school in the city after such person has
been requested to leave and vacate such school premises by any faculty member,
principal or police officer unless permission therefor has been given by a
faculty member, principal or designated school employee. (2002 Code § 9.16.070)
6-1A-7: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (2002 Code § 9.16.080)
6-1A-8: TRASH AND LITTER DEPOSITS:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "litter" means any flaming or
glowing substances except those which by law may be placed upon highway rights
of way, any substance which may cause a fire, or any bottles, cans, trash,
garbage, or debris of any kind. As used in this section, "litter" shall not
include trash, garbage, or debris placed beside a public road for collection by
a garbage collection agency, or deposited upon or within public property
designated by the state or by any of its agencies or political subdivisions as
an appropriate place for such deposits if the person making the deposit is
authorized to use the property for such purpose.
   B.   Unlawful Deposits Prohibited: Any person who deliberately places,
throws, drops, deposits or discards any garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, refuse,
debris or other deleterious substances on any public property or on any private
property of another without consent shall be guilty of an offense.
   C.   Rebuttable Presumption: Upon investigation by a full time police
officer of the city, the discovery of the disposal of any substance in
violation of this section which contains three (3) or more items bearing a
common address in a form which tends to identify the latest owner of the items
shall create a rebuttable presumption that all competent persons residing at
such address committed the unlawful act.
   D.   Liability Of Vehicle Owner: The operator of a vehicle shall be liable
for any act of throwing, dropping, depositing, or otherwise placing any litter
from his or her vehicle upon highways, roads or public property unless any
other person in the vehicle admits to or is identified as having committed such
act. Any person who admits to or is identified as having committed the act
shall be liable for such act.
   E.   Restitution Required: In addition to the penalty prescribed for a
violation of this section, the court may direct the person to make restitution
to the property owner affected; to remove and properly dispose of the garbage,
trash, waste, refuse or debris from the property; to pick up, remove and
properly dispose of garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, refuse, debris and other
nonhazardous deleterious substances from public property; or any combination of
the foregoing which the court, in its discretion, deems appropriate. The dates,
times and locations of such activities shall be scheduled by the city police
department pursuant to the order of the court in such a manner as not to
interfere with the employment of family responsibilities of the person. (2002
Code § 9.16.090)
ARTICLE B. THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-1B-1: Harmful Deception
6-1B-2: False Or Bogus Checks
6-1B-3: Petit Larceny
6-1B-4: Receiving Stolen Property
6-1B-5: False Identification
6-1B-6: Short Weights And Measures
6-1B-7: Failure To Pay For Gasoline
6-1B-1: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another (whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise) when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm, or injury of the person deceived or
of a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(2002 Code § 9.20.010)
6-1B-2: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain or
attempt to obtain from any person any money of the value of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or less by means of any false or bogus check or by any other
written or printed or engraved instrument or false coin. The term "false or
bogus check" shall include checks or orders given for money or property which
are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as
against the maker or drawer thereof. The making, drawing, issuing, or
delivering of a check, draft, or order, payment of which is refused by the
drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of intent to defraud and the knowledge of
insufficient funds in, or credit with, such bank or other depository; provided,
such maker or drawer shall not have paid the drawee the amount due thereon,
together with the protest fees, within five (5) days from the date the same is
presented for payment; and provided, further, that the check or order is
presented for payment within thirty (30) days after the same is delivered and
accepted. (2002 Code § 9.20.020; amd. 2013 Code)
6-1B-3: PETIT LARCENY:
"Petit larceny" is the taking of personal property of a value not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent
to deprive another thereof, when the property is taken from the person,
premises or property of another. Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who
commits petit larceny is guilty of an offense. (2002 Code § 9.20.030; amd. 2013
Code)
6-1B-4: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to buy, receive, or bring into the city any
property which he or she knows has been stolen. (2002 Code § 9.20.040)
6-1B-5: FALSE IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   As used in this section, "identification card, document or certificate"
is defined as printed forms which contain: 1) the name and photo of a person;
or 2) the name and physical description of a person; or 3) any combination
thereof, and which is capable of leading a person to believe it has been issued
for the purpose of identifying the person. The term does not, however, include
a printed form which states "Not For Identification" in at least 6-point type.
   B.   It is an offense for a person to:
      1.   Purchase, display or knowingly possess any identification document,
card, or certificate which bears altered or fictitious information concerning
the date of birth, sex, height, eye color, weight, or fictitious or forged name
or signature or a photo of any person, other than the person named on the form;
      2.   Display or knowingly possess any counterfeit or fictitious
identification document, card, or certificate;
      3.   Use the "Great Seal Of The State Of Oklahoma" or facsimile on any
identification document, card, or certificate unless it is issued by the state
of Oklahoma, political subdivision thereof or the federal government. (2002
Code § 9.20.050)
6-1B-6: SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell or offer for sale
any food, fuel, clothing or any other commodity which does not weigh or measure
fully as much, according to standard weights or measures of the state of
Oklahoma, as the weight or measure for which it is sold or offered for sale.
(2002 Code § 9.20.060)
6-1B-7: FAILURE TO PAY FOR GASOLINE:
Any person who pumps gasoline into the gasoline tank of a vehicle or other
containers and leaves the premises where the gasoline was pumped without making
payment for the gasoline shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (Ord. 461, 3-19-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND DECENCY
SECTION:
6-1C-1: Assault And Battery
6-1C-2: Pointing Laser Devices
6-1C-3: Gambling
6-1C-4: False Registration
6-1C-5: Nudity; Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
6-1C-6: Controlled Substances; Drug Paraphernalia
6-1C-7: Assemblies
6-1C-8: Disturbing The Peace; Disorderly Conduct; Penalty For Violation
6-1C-9: Unlawful Use Of E911 System
6-1C-10: Concealed Weapons
6-1C-11: Loitering On Private Property
6-1C-12: Face Covering And Social Distancing During COVID-19 Pandemic Civil
Emergency
6-1C-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ASSAULT: Any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence to
do a corporal hurt to another.
   BATTERY: Any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person of
another.
   B.   Prohibitions: It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the city, and any person committing an assault or an assault and
battery within the city is guilty of an offense. (2002 Code § 9.12.200)
6-1C-2: POINTING LASER DEVICES:
It is an assault for any person to point or direct a laser pointer, laser gun
site, or such other laser directed transmission against, upon or at any person,
and further provided, that the pointing of such laser device shall be
considered an assault. The pointing of such laser devices shall not be assault
when such laser devices are utilized within sporting activities where both
parties or other parties have, by mutual agreement, elected to pursue such
sporting activities which include the pointing of laser devices. (2002 Code §
9.12.210)
6-1C-3: GAMBLING:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or
agent or employee thereof, to play, to open or cause to be opened, or to
operate, carry on or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte,
poker, roulette, craps, any banking, percentage, or other game played with
dice, cards, or any device, for money, checks, chips, credit, or any other
thing of value; to set up, operate, or permit to be operated any slot machine
or other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit, or any other
thing of value is played, when the act of playing the same results in a gain or
loss to the party playing; or to gamble knowingly in any other manner; or to
knowingly permit his or her or its premises, house, lot or other property to be
used in connection with or for any act declared unlawful in this subsection.
(2002 Code § 9.12.010)
   B.   Loitering Near Places Of Gambling: It is unlawful for any person to
loiter in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling,
whether by playing games, operating a slot machine or other device, or
otherwise. (2002 Code § 9.12.020)
6-1C-4: FALSE REGISTRATION:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to register or attempt to
register under a false or assumed name in any hotel or rooming house within the
city. (2002 Code § 9.12.040)
   B.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person having the control or
management thereof or the charge of registering guests in any hotel or rooming
house to register or permit such guests to register under an assumed or false
name when such person has knowledge that the name offered for registration is
not the correct name of the party attempting such registration. (2002 Code §
9.12.050)
6-1C-5: NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It is unlawful for any person to appear in any public place in the city in a
state of nudity or in any offensive, indecent, or lewd dress, or to make an
indecent public exposure of his or her person. (2002 Code § 9.12.060)
6-1C-6: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Under Influence; Possession; Loitering Near Premises: It is unlawful
for any person to appear within the city limits while under the influence of or
having possession of or to knowingly loiter about a place where such substances
are being sold or furnished to another person. "Such substances" include the
drug or any extraction or derivative thereof of amphetamines, cannabinoids,
cocaine, phencyclidine, hallucinogens, methaqualone, opiates, barbiturates,
benzodiazipines, synthetic narcotics, designer drugs, or a metabolite. (Ord.
532, 5-2-2005)
   B.   Possession, Use Of Controlled Dangerous Substances; Exemptions:
      1.   No person shall be in possession of any controlled dangerous
substances as identified under the Oklahoma uniform controlled dangerous
substances act except those holding an unrevoked license in the profession of
podiatry, dentistry, medicine, nursing, optometry, osteopathy, veterinary
medicine, or pharmacy; and those persons so holding under prescription by a
physician licensed to practice within the state of Oklahoma.
      2.   No person shall use or possess marijuana, LSD, opium, or other
narcotics as prohibited within the schedule of drugs identified under the
Oklahoma uniform controlled dangerous substances act. (Ord. 575, 6-18-2007)
   C.   Drug Paraphernalia:
      1.   No person shall use or possess drug paraphernalia to plant,
propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
dangerous substance in violation of the Oklahoma uniform controlled dangerous
substances act, except those persons holding an unrevoked license in the
professions of podiatry, dentistry, medicine, nursing, optometry, osteopathy,
veterinary medicine or pharmacy.
      2.   No person shall deliver, possess or manufacture drug paraphernalia
knowing it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled dangerous substance in violation of the
Oklahoma uniform controlled dangerous substances act, 63 Oklahoma Statutes
section 2-405. (2002 Code § 9.12.110)
6-1C-7: ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Unlawful Assemblies: Any three (3) or more persons who shall assemble
together in the city, or shall set in concert, or do any unlawful act with
force or violence against the property of the city or the persons or property
of another or against the peace or to the terror of others, and shall make any
movement or preparation therefor, and every person present at such meeting or
assembly who shall not endeavor to prevent the commission or perpetration of
such unlawful act shall be deemed guilty of an offense. (2002 Code § 9.12.120)
   B.   Permit To Assemble On Public Ways: Permits for the holding of peaceable
public and religious discourses may be granted by the city manager or his or
her designated representative, revokable at any time, to be held at such times
and places and in such manner upon public thoroughfares in the city as shall
not interfere with the general traffic or convenience, and when a permit
therefor shall have been issued, it is unlawful and an offense for any person
to disturb such gathering or assembly, or make any loud or unusual noises or by
any rude behavior annoy the speaker or other persons at such meeting. (2002
Code § 9.12.130; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Disturbing Assemblies:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful public gathering
or assembly by making noise; by rude, indecent, or improper behavior; by
profane, improper, or loud language; or in any other manner, either within the
place of assembly or within hearing distance thereof. (2002 Code § 9.12.160)
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to disturb any congregation or
assembly of persons meeting for religious worship by making noise; by rude,
indecent or improper behavior; by profane, improper or loud language; or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof. (2002 Code § 9.12.150)
6-1C-8: DISTURBING THE PEACE; DISORDERLY CONDUCT; PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of the City, or any
neighborhood, family or person by loud or unusual noise; by aggressive,
violent, obscene, or profane conduct or language reasonably likely to cause
offense or incite a breach of the peace; by unpermitted construction or
demolition noise; or to conduct himself or herself in a disorderly manner, as
such offenses are more fully set forth in this Section
6-1C-8. Any person guilty of any misdemeanor described herein may be fined in
any sum not to exceed One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) or may be imprisoned in the
Tulsa County jail not to exceed thirty (30) days or be penalized by both such
fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the City of Glenpool municipal
court. Each calendar day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   A.   Disrupting an Assembly. Any person who, without authority of law,
willfully interrupts, disturbs or disrupts any lawful assembly of people,
except as may be required by a public danger, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   B.   Loud or Unusual Noise. Any person who, knowingly, willfully or
maliciously disturbs, at any time of day or night, the peace and quiet of the
City, any neighborhood, family or person by creating any loud or unusual noise
of such character or duration as to be disruptive and annoying to a person of
ordinary sensibilities, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The following
is exemplary but not exclusive of the characteristics of such prohibited noise:
      1.   Music or Words. The playing of any television, radio, phonograph,
tape recorder, CD player or any musical instrument or operating, having
operated on one’s behalf or permitting to be operated, any device, whether
electric or otherwise, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to
emit music, words or similar noise at a volume deemed excessive by persons
within a dwelling other than that of the source. An investigating peace officer
may exercise reasonable discretion in determining whether to dismiss, give a
warning to or issue a citation to the person or persons responsible for such
noise.
      2.   Warning Signal. The prolonged or repeated sounding of a horn or a
similar signal device on any vehicle or other mechanism for a duration in
excess of that necessary as a danger signal.
      3.   Animal Noise. Allowing any animal within a person’s custody or
control to habitually bark, howl, yelp, roar or make similar noises.
      4.   Vehicle Noise. Discharging the exhaust of any internal combustion
engine or motor vehicle of any category, except through a muffler or other
device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises.
      5.   Construction or Demolition Noise. The erection (including
excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any building or structure
other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. where such activity
results in the creation of unusually loud noise or noise that annoys, disturbs,
injures or unreasonably impairs the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of
others except in the case of urgent necessity in the public interest of the
public health and safety, for the duration of such emergency.
      6.   Pile Drivers and Other Heavy Equipment. The operation other than
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. of any pile driver, steam shovel,
pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other form of heavy
equipment, the use of which is attended by loud or repeated or continuous
noise. Use of jake brakes on vehicles so equipped is prohibited except when
used as an emergency device proven to avoid safety incidents.
      7.   Business Operations and Other Premises Activities. The carrying on
of any business operations, or other activities upon any premises in such a
manner so as to create any excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud noise,
which disturbs, injures, or unreasonably impairs the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of another person of reasonable sensitivities.
      8.   Sensitive Hours. The creation of any of the above or substantially
similar noises between the hours of 10:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday and
7:00 a.m. on the following day, or between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on Friday
and Saturday and 7:00 a.m. on the following day in such a manner as to be
plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the exterior of the yard,
building, structure or vehicle within which the sound originates shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section. However, the fact that the above
noises were created between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday
or between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday is not
a defense to prosecution under this section.
      9.   Exemptions. The following sources of noise, unless intentionally
abused, shall be exempt from this section:
         a.   Noise of safety signals and warning devices.
         b.   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when
responding to an emergency.
         c.   Noises resulting from the provision of municipal or other
governmental services.
         d.   Any noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration which
is permitted by law and/or for which a waiver has been granted by the city
council.
         e.   Parades and public gatherings for which a special waiver has been
issued by the city council.
         f.   Bells, chimes, carillons or similar devices while being used for
religious purposes or in conjunction with religious services or for national
celebrations or public holidays. The city council expressly finds this
exemption to be a reasonable accommodation to protected expressive activity
without unnecessary governmental entanglement.
         g.   Lawn maintenance equipment when it is functional within
manufacturer’s specifications and with all mufflers and noise-reducing
equipment in use and in properly operating condition, when used between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
         h.   Non-amplified crowd noises or band noises resulting from lawful
activities such as those planned by day care centers, schools, and governmental
or community groups.
         i.   Electronically or otherwise amplified announcements at athletic
or similar special events between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and the conclusion of
such event, but in no case later than the following 12:00 a.m.
   C.   Disorderly Conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
disorderly conduct in any public place or in any private dwelling or office
occupied by the victim of such conduct. Disorderly conduct shall include but
not be limited to:
      1.   Creating a Disturbance. Yelling, shouting or singing on public
streets or audibly from private spaces between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., or at any other time or place where such acts are performed in such
manner as to annoy or disturb the occupants of any dwelling or in such a way as
to disturb the occupants of any school, place of worship, hospital or similar
institution.
      2.   Threatening Language. Using abusive, violent or otherwise
threatening language, whether the language is addressed to the party who is
disturbed or addressed to some other person(s). “Threatening language” includes
any actual or implied threat to kill, to do bodily harm or injury or to destroy
the property of another; the issuance of challenges to fight or the brandishing
of weapons; or language which, in its common usage is reasonably likely to
arouse to anger the person about or to whom it is spoken or addressed, or to
incite a breach of the peace or an assault,
      3.   Fighting. Initiating or conducting a fight through any form of
actual combat.
   D.   Unlawful Signs, Literature Or Language. It is unlawful for any person
to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag, or device or distribute publicly any
literature or use any language within the corporate limits of the City which,
in its common acceptance, is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of
the City or to the general public and which is reasonably likely to, or of
which the natural consequence is to, cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
   E.   Disruption of Authorized Activity on School Grounds. Any person who,
for any cause, visits any public or private school in the City and conducts
themselves in such a manner as to disrupt classroom, administrative or other
educational activities shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 789, 8-
16-2021)
6-1C-9: UNLAWFUL USE OF E911 SYSTEM:
   A.   The E911 emergency notification system shall be and is hereby reserved
and designated for emergency use only.
   B.   “Emergency use” is defined as a present condition establishing imminent
harm to personal property or to bodily injury, such condition requiring
immediate assistance from agencies such as the fire department or the police
department for the immediate protection of such personal property or personal
injury including the imminent threat of personal injury. Emergency does not
include threats which are not of imminent nature, concerns regarding the
possible future violation of a protective order, minor traffic accidents,
nuisance abatement, or public disturbance calls unless it appears that imminent
danger to personal property or bodily harm is present.
   C.   Any person who is charged with violating this section shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (Ord. 542, 11-7-2005; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 789, 8-16-
2021)
6-1C-10: CONCEALED WEAPONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his
person any pistol, revolver, bowie knife, dirk, dagger, metal knuckle,
switchblade knife, or other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument, except
when doing so in the line of duty or as may be permitted by law.
   B.   In addition to the penalty provided herein, the judge of the municipal
court may order and adjudge any weapon or article specified in this section to
be an instrument in violation of the public safety and in the furtherance of a
nuisance, and may order same to be destroyed by the chief of police if said
article has no value for a lawful purpose. If it has any value for a lawful
purpose, it may be ordered by the judge to be held pending a hearing on a date
set by the judge, and the owner shall be notified in writing of such hearing at
least five (5) days prior thereto. Notice given in open court to the person in
whose possession the weapon is found shall be sufficient. Upon such hearing,
the court may order such weapon sold unless it appears to the court that the
owner thereof did not participate in or have knowledge of such violation or of
the intended use of such weapon. The weapon, if ordered sold, shall be sold at
public auction by the chief of police upon the posting of a notice at the
police station three (3) days prior thereto, and the proceeds shall be paid
into the general fund of the city and will be used for the sole purpose of
training police officers and the purchase of police equipment. (Ord. 510, 2-2-
2004; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 789, 8-16-2021)
6-1C-11: LOITERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for a person to enter or remain on private property at any time
after having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer;
provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to persons,
including employees, whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the
owner or by a person in lawful possession of such premises; nor shall the
provisions of this section apply unless hours of business operation are posted
upon such premises. It shall also be unlawful to return to private property
after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this
section. (2002 Code § 9.12.030; amd. Ord. 789, 8-16-2021)
6-1C-12: FACE COVERING AND SOCIAL DISTANCING DURING COVID-19 PANDEMIC CIVIL
EMERGENCY:
   A.   Definitions:
 
               Any structure, building or facility used for academic or athletic purposes on any
EDUCATIONAL    public school campus or any private school or preschool. This term excludes the
BUILDING:      playing surface of any athletic facility during organized activities and
               practices.
               A cloth covering that fully covers a person’s nose and mouth. The term “Face
               Covering” includes but is not limited to: cloth face masks, towels, scarves, and
               bandanas as recommended by the Center for Disease Control (“CDC”) or Oklahoma
FACE COVERING: State Department of Health (“OSDH”), a N95, KN95, or other mask that would be
               appropriate for a health care setting, or a surgical mask. The face covering
               should fit snugly on a person’s face but allow the person to breathe easily and
               must be worn in a manner consistent with the guidance provided by the CDC or the
               OSDH.
               For purposes of compliance with this section, means persons who reside in a
HOUSEHOLD:     single residence or guests of such persons intentionally gathered together in an
               identifiable unit. Being part of the same household is an exemption from social
               distancing or physical distancing but not from the face covering mandate.
               All places offering items, goods, products or services for purchase or rent,
PLACE OF       including without limitation retail businesses, personal services, entertainment
PUBLIC         venues, food service facilities, restaurants and bars, hotels, motels and travel-
ACCOMMODATION: related services, professional offices and services, banks and financial
               services, repair facilities, hair salons, motor vehicle dealerships and similar
               locations where more than one household regularly gather.
PUBLIC SERVICE Area(s) of a place of public accommodation or an educational building wherein
AREA(S):       employees or other staff persons interact with the public in the normal course of
               business.
               Any public place where persons congregate which is not a place of public
               accommodation, including without limitation offices, workplaces, houses of
PUBLIC         worship and ancillary facilities, child care facilities, hospitals and health
SETTING:       facilities, gymnasiums and physical fitness facilities, adult and youth sports
               facilities, communal outdoor spaces such as sidewalks, trails, and parks, food
               trucks and other outdoor retail entities.
SOCIAL         Maintaining at least six feet (6') of distance between persons who are not part
DISTANCING or  of the same household while in a place of public accommodation, educational
PHYSICAL       building, public service area or public setting.
DISTANCING:
 
   B.   Face Coverings Mandate And Exemption Under Certain Circumstances:
Except as otherwise provided in this section, persons located within any public
service area, place of public accommodation or educational building are
required to wear face coverings at all times when present therein. Except as
otherwise provided herein, persons in any public setting wherein social
distancing or physical distancing cannot be maintained are required to wear
face coverings.
The following persons, locations and activities are exempt from this
requirement:
      1.   Persons who fall into the Centers for Disease Control’s guidance for
those who should not wear face coverings due to a medical or mental health
condition or developmental disability;
      2.   Children under ten (10) years of age;
      3.   Restaurant patrons while they are eating or drinking;
      4.   Individual persons or persons from the same household walking or
exercising in communal outdoor spaces, provided that social distancing or
physical distancing is maintained between persons not from the same household;
      5.   Settings where it is not practical or feasible to wear a face
covering, such as dental services, medical treatments or while swimming;
      6.   Occupants in a personal vehicle, personal office, or similarly
private space while other persons outside of any such occupant’s household are
not present;
      7.   Private homes; and
      8.   Offices and workplaces that are not public service areas and where
social distancing or physical distancing between employees and other occupants
can be consistently maintained during hours of operation.
   C.   Penalty For Violation Of Subsection B: There is no specific penalty for
violation of this section. However, persons refusing to wear a face covering
into and within a place of public accommodation, educational building, public
service area, or public setting as defined herein may be subject to prosecution
under criminal trespass, disturbing the peace, disorderly conduct or similar
offenses as circumstances warrant.
   D.   Expiration Of Section: This section shall be in effect until such time
as this section is repealed, modified or extended by the City Council through a
subsequent ordinance. (Ord. 783, 11-18-2020; amd. Ord. 784, 12-7-2020; Ord.
789, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND LOW POINT BEER
SECTION:
6-1D-1: Definitions
6-1D-2: Unlawful Premises
6-1D-3: Loitering Near Premises
6-1D-4: Sales To Certain Persons, Intoxicated Persons On Premises Prohibited
6-1D-5: Persons Under Twenty One
6-1D-6: Possession, Transportation Of Regulated Beverages
6-1D-7: Consumption, Intoxication In Public
6-1D-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: All beverages controlled by the Oklahoma alcoholic
beverage laws enforcement (ABLE) commission under the provisions of the
alcoholic beverage control act 1  and includes, without limitation, "alcohol",
"spirits", "beer", and "wine" as those terms are defined in this section and in
section 506 of the alcoholic beverage control act; and also includes every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings; and also includes all
beverages governed by the provisions of article XXVIII of the Oklahoma
constitution; but does not include "low point beer" as that term is defined in
this section and in 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 163.2.
BEER: Any beverage containing more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) of
alcohol by weight and obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, or other grain, malt or similar products. "Beer" may or
may not contain hops or other vegetable products. "Beer" includes, among other
things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and other malt or brewed liquors,
but does not include sake, known as "Japanese rice wine".
LOW POINT BEER: All beverages, the manufacture, distribution and sale of which
are controlled by 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 163.1 et seq., and includes
beverages containing more than one-half of one percent (1/2%) alcohol by
volume, and not more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight
including, but not limited to, beer or cereal malt beverages obtained by the
alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley or other grain, malt or similar
products.
REGULATED BEVERAGES: Means and includes all "alcoholic beverages" as defined in
this section and in 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 506, regardless of percent of
alcoholic content, and all "low point beer" as defined in this section and in
37 Oklahoma Statutes section 163.2. "Regulated beverages" are subject to the
provisions of this article.
SPIRITS: Any beverage, other than wine, beer or low point beer, which contains
more than one-half of one percent (1/2%) alcohol measured by volume and
obtained by distillation, whether or not mixed with other substances in
solution and includes those products known as whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, vodka,
liqueurs, cordials and fortified wines and similar compounds; but shall not
include any alcoholic liquid completely denatured in accordance with the acts
of congress and regulations pursuant thereto.
WINE: Means and includes any beverage containing more than one-half of one
percent (1/2%) alcohol by volume and not more than twenty four percent (24%)
alcohol by volume at sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) obtained by the
fermentation of the natural contents of fruits, vegetables, honey, milk or
other products containing sugar, whether or not other ingredients are added,
and includes vermouth and sake, known as "Japanese rice wine". (2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 37 OS § 502 et seq.
6-1D-2: UNLAWFUL PREMISES:
It is unlawful for any person or agent or employee thereof to keep, maintain,
or aid or abet in keeping or maintaining, a place where regulated beverages are
sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished in violation of law or the
ordinances of the city. (2002 Code § 9.12.090; amd. 2013 Code)
6-1D-3: LOITERING NEAR PREMISES:
It is unlawful for any person to loiter in any place where regulated beverages
of any kind are bartered, sold, given away, or otherwise furnished contrary to
law. (2002 Code § 9.12.080; amd. 2013 Code)
6-1D-4: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS, INTOXICATED PERSONS ON PREMISES PROHIBITED:
No person, at any place within the city, shall sell, deliver, or knowingly
furnish regulated beverages to a person under twenty one (21) years of age, to
an intoxicated person, or to any person who has been adjudged insane or
mentally deficient, or shall permit an intoxicated person to remain or loiter
on the premises. (2002 Code §§ 5.08.060, 5.08.170, 5.12.020; amd. 2013 Code)
6-1D-5: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   Employment, Presence On Premises:
      1.   It is unlawful for any owner, manager, or operator of a place where
regulated beverages are sold for consumption on the premises, except an eating
place where the service of such beverage is incidental to the main business of
serving food, to employ a person under twenty one (21) years of age to work in
a place where regulated beverages are sold for consumption on the premises.
(2002 Code §§ 5.08.060, 5.12.020; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   It is unlawful for the owner, manager, operator, or person in charge
of a place where regulated beverages are sold for consumption on the premises
to permit a person under eighteen (18) years of age to remain or to loiter in
such place, or to sell or otherwise furnish any regulated beverage to a person
under twenty one (21) years of age for consumption on or off the premises, or
to permit a person under eighteen (18) years of age to work in a place where
regulated beverages are sold for consumption on the premises. A parent, as
regards the employment of his or her own child or children, is excepted from
this subsection A2; provided, that such employment shall in no capacity
whatsoever be related to the selling or dispensing of regulated beverages. The
provisions of this subsection A2 as relating to employment shall not apply to
any business or establishment where sales of "regulated beverages", as defined
in section
6-1D-1 of this article, do not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the gross
sales of the business establishment. (2002 Code § 5.12.020; amd. 2013 Code)
      3.   No retail package store owner, operator, or employee shall permit
any person under twenty one (21) years of age to enter into, remain within, or
loiter about the premises of the store. (2002 Code § 5.08.060)
   B.   Misrepresentation Of Age: No person under the age of twenty one (21)
years shall misrepresent his or her age in writing or by presenting false
documentation of age for the purpose of inducing any person to sell him or her
regulated beverages. (2002 Code § 5.08.060; amd. 2013 Code)
6-1D-6: POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION OF REGULATED BEVERAGES:
It is unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession or under his or
her control any regulated beverage of any kind, except as permitted by law, or
to transport or in any manner convey from place to place within the city any
regulated beverage except as permitted by law. (2002 Code § 9.12.070; amd. 2013
Code)
6-1D-7: CONSUMPTION, INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC:
   A.   No person within the city shall drink regulated beverages in any public
place except upon the premises of a licensee who is authorized to sell or serve
regulated beverages, nor shall any person be intoxicated in a public place
within the city. (2002 Code §§ 5.08.190, 5.12.040, 9.12.100; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   No person operating a cafe, restaurant, club, or place of recreation
within the city and no employee engaged in connection with the operation of
such a cafe, restaurant, club, or place of recreation shall permit any person
to be drunk or intoxicated in such place of business. (2002 Code § 5.08.230;
amd. 2013 Code)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES REGARDING PUBLIC OFFICERS
AND GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
6-1E-1: Refusing Or Failing To Assist An Officer
6-1E-2: Resisting Officers
6-1E-3: Aid In Escape; Providing Prisoners Liquor Or Controlled Substances
6-1E-4: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
6-1E-5: False Information; Perjury
6-1E-6: False Public Safety Or Emergency Alarms
6-1E-7: Violation Of An Emergency Order; Penalty
6-1E-1: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER:
An officer of the city making or about to make an arrest, or executing or about
to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the ordinances of the
city or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to suppress a riot,
affray, or unlawful assembly, may call upon a person or persons to assist him
or her in making such arrest, executing such process, or suppressing such riot,
affray, or unlawful assembly. It is unlawful for any person lawfully called
upon to assist an officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so. (2002 Code §
9.08.010)
6-1E-2: RESISTING OFFICERS:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or wilfully resist, oppose, or
obstruct the chief of police, any other police officer, the municipal judge, or
other officer or employee of the city in the discharge of his or her official
duties; or by threats or otherwise, to intimidate or attempt to intimidate any
such officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
to assault or beat, or abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or indecent
language toward or about any such officer or employee while such officer or
employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties. (2002 Code §
9.08.020; amd. 2013 Code)
6-1E-3: AID IN ESCAPE; PROVIDING PRISONERS LIQUOR OR CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES:
It is unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner, to set at liberty,
rescue, or attempt to set at liberty or rescue, any prisoner or prisoners from
any officer or employee of the city having legal custody of the same or from
the city jail or other place of confinement by the city, or to assist such
prisoner in any manner to escape from prison or custody, or to give such
prisoner any weapon or object which might be used as a weapon or instrument to
assist him or her in escape, or to give such prisoner any alcoholic beverage or
controlled substances. (2002 Code § 9.08.030; amd. 2013 Code)
6-1E-4: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of the
city, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or
powers of an officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to
do so. (2002 Code § 9.08.040)
6-1E-5: FALSE INFORMATION; PERJURY:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any misrepresentation to any officer, employee or
agency of the city in any official application to or official dealing or
negotiation with such officer or agency; or to commit perjury before the
municipal court or any officer of the city. (2002 Code § 9.08.050; amd. 2013
Code)
6-1E-6: FALSE PUBLIC SAFETY OR EMERGENCY ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in any false public safety or emergency
alarm, or in any manner deceive or attempt to deceive any emergency response
department, to include, without limitation, the police department, fire
department, and ambulance service, or any officer or employee of any department
with reference to any public safety or emergency alarm. (2002 Code § 9.08.060;
amd. 2013 Code)
6-1E-7: VIOLATION OF AN EMERGENCY ORDER; PENALTY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to fail to perform any affirmative act
mandated by, or to undertake or attempt to undertake any act prohibited by:
      1.   Any executive order of the Governor of the State of Oklahoma issued
during the existence of a state of emergency by proclamation as provided by the
Oklahoma Riot Control and Prevention Act, as the same may be amended, or any
comparable statute; or
      2.   Any rule, regulation or order of the Oklahoma Department of
Emergency Management pursuant to the Oklahoma Emergency Act of 2003, as the
same may be amended, or any comparable statute; or
      3.   Any resolution, proclamation or order of the City of Glenpool
declaring that a state of emergency exists in the City of Glenpool, as may be
adopted by the City Council of the City of Glenpool, as the same may be
amended; or
      4.   Any resolution, proclamation or order of the Mayor of the City of
Glenpool to the extent such resolution, proclamation or order has been
authorized by a preceding resolution, proclamation or order adopted by the City
Council; or
      5.   Any order, rule or regulation made by the Director of the Glenpool
Emergency Management Program to the extent that such order, rule or regulation
is authorized by Title 5 (Emergency Preparedness), Chapter 1 (Emergency
Management) Section 5-1-5 Emergency Powers, of the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Glenpool and is within the limits of the authority conferred upon him
or her in said title.
   B.   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates or neglects or refuses to
comply with any regulation, requirement, or provision of subsection A of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor offense punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. Each day upon which any violation occurs shall constitute
a separate offense. (Ord. 773, 4-6-2020)
CHAPTER 2
JUVENILE OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Curfew
6-2-2: Contributing To The Delinquency Of A Minor
6-2-3: Truancy
6-2-4: Gatherings Where Minors May Consume Alcoholic Beverages
6-2-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of twenty one (21) years who is in loco
parentis to a minor.
   GUARDIAN: Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A public place shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
cafe, theater, drugstore, poolroom, shopping center and any other place devoted
to amusement or entertainment of the general public. The term shall also
include the front or immediate area of the above.
   B.   Prohibited Hours; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any minor to remain,
wander, stroll or play in any public place on foot or to cruise about without a
set destination in any vehicle in, about or upon any public place in the city
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. unless:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed or permitted by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor; or
      3.   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation.
   C.   Permitting Minors On Premises: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly permit
or suffer the presence of minors between the hours of curfew designated in
subsection B of this section.
   D.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian; Exceptions: It is unlawful for
any parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having custody or control
of any minor to suffer or permit or, by inefficient control, allow such person
to be on any public place within the city between the hours of curfew
designated in subsection B of this section. The provisions of this subsection
do not apply if:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed by his or her parent, guardian, custodian or other adult having the
care and custody of the minor; or
      3.   The parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made a missing
person notification to the city police department.
   E.   City Council Powers: The city council may permit by resolution or
motion procedures for advance notice or registration with the city of special
events or functions sponsored by churches, schools, clubs or other
organizations which require minors to be out at a later time. The council may
also prescribe the procedures for taking into custody minors found in violation
of this section. (2002 Code § 9.24.010)
   F.   Penalty: Any minor who violates this section shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (2002 Code § 9.24.010; amd. 2013 Code)
6-2-2: CONTRIBUTING TO THE DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR:
   A.   Every person who shall knowingly or wilfully cause, aid, abet or
encourage a minor to be, to remain, or to become a "delinquent child" or a
"runaway child", as said terms are defined in subsection B of this section,
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. Each such offense shall be deemed a separate offense.
   B.   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
    DELINQUENT CHILD: Includes a minor, as defined in this subsection, who
shall have been or is violating any penal statute of this state or ordinance of
the city, or who shall have been or is committing any one or more of the
following acts:
      1.   Associating with thieves or vicious or immoral persons.
      2.   Frequenting a house of ill repute.
      3.   Frequenting any policy shop or place where any gambling device is
operated.
      4.   Frequenting any saloon, dramshop, still, or any place where
alcoholic beverages or low point beer is manufactured, stored or sold.
      5.   Possessing, carrying, owning or exposing any vile, obscene,
indecent, immoral or lascivious photograph, drawing, picture, book, paper,
pamphlet, image, device, instrument, figure or object.
      6.   Wilfully, lewdly or lasciviously exposing his or her person, or
private parts thereof, in any place, public or private, in such manner as to be
offensive to decency, or calculated to excite vicious or lewd thoughts, or for
the purpose of engaging in the preparation or manufacture of obscene, indecent
or lascivious photographs, pictures, figures or objects.
      7.   Possessing, transporting, selling or engaging or aiding or assisting
in the sale, transportation or manufacture of alcoholic beverages or low point
beer or the frequent use of the same.
      8.   Possessing, transporting, selling or consuming low point beer in a
manner contrary to the laws of the state of Oklahoma or the ordinances of the
city.
      9.   Being a runaway from his or her parent or legal guardian.
      10.   Violating any penal provision of the uniform controlled dangerous
substances act.
   ENCOURAGE: In addition to the usual meaning of the word, includes a wilful
and intentional neglect to do that which will directly tend to prevent such act
or acts of delinquency on the part of a minor, when the person accused shall
have been able to do so.
   EVERY PERSON: Includes human beings, without regard to their legal or
natural relationship to a minor, as well as legal or corporation entities.
   MINOR OR CHILD: Includes male or female persons who shall not have arrived
at the age of eighteen (18) years at the time of the commission of the offense.
   RUNAWAY CHILD: An unemancipated minor who is voluntarily absent from the
home without a compelling reason, without the consent of a custodial parent or
other custodial adult and without the parent or other custodial adult's
knowledge as to the child's whereabouts. "Compelling reason" means imminent
danger from incest, a life threatening situation, or equally traumatizing
circumstance. A person aiding a "runaway child" pursuant to 76 Oklahoma
Statutes section 5, subsection (a)(4), or aiding a child based upon a
reasonable belief that the child is in physical, mental or emotional danger and
with notice to the department of human services or the city police department
within twelve (12) hours of aiding the child shall not be subject to
prosecution under this chapter. (2002 Code § 9.24.020; amd. 2013 Code)
6-2-3: TRUANCY:
   A.   Attendance Required; Exceptions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian, or other person having
custody of a child who is over the age of five (5) years and under the age of
eighteen (18) years to neglect or refuse to cause or compel such child to
attend and comply with the rules of some public, private or other school,
unless other means of education are provided in this subsection. One-half (1/2)
day of kindergarten shall be required for all children five (5) years of age or
older unless the child is excused from kindergarten attendance as provided in
this subsection. A child who is five (5) years of age shall be excused from
kindergarten attendance until the next school year after the child is six (6)
years of age if a parent, guardian, or other person having custody of the child
notifies the superintendent of the district where the child is a resident by
certified mail prior to enrollment in kindergarten, or at any time during the
first school year that the child is required to attend kindergarten pursuant to
this subsection, of election to withhold the child from kindergarten until the
next school year after the child is six (6) years of age.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any child who is over the age of twelve
(12) years of age and under the age of eighteen (18) years, and who has not
finished four (4) years of high school work, to neglect or refuse to attend and
comply with the rules of some public, private or other school, or receive an
education by other means for the full term the schools of the district are in
session. (Ord. 539, 9-6-2005)
      3.   Provided, that this subsection shall not apply:
         a.   If any child is prevented from attending school by reason of
mental or physical disability to be determined by the board of education of the
district upon a certificate of the school physician or public health physician,
or if no such physician is available, a duly licensed and practicing physician;
         b.   If any child is excused from attendance at school, due to an
emergency, by the principal teacher of the school in which such child is
enrolled, at the request of the parent, guardian, custodian or other person
having control of such child;
         c.   If any child who has attained his or her sixteenth birthday is
excused from attending school by written, joint agreement between: 1) the
school administrator of the school district where the child attends school; and
2) the parent, guardian or custodian of the child. Provided, further, that no
child shall be excused from attending school by such joint agreement between a
school administrator and the parent, guardian or custodian of the child unless
and until it has been determined that such action is for the best interest of
the child and/or the community, and that said child shall thereafter be under
the supervision of the parent, guardian or custodian until the child has
reached the age of eighteen (18) years; or
         d.   If any child is excused pursuant to subsection B of this section.
         e.   If any child is excused from attending school for the purpose of
participating in a military funeral honors ceremony upon approval of the school
principal.
   B.   Excused Absences: A school district may excuse a student from attending
school for the purpose of observing religious holy days if, before the absence,
the parent, guardian, or person having custody or control of the student
submits a written request for the excused absence. The school district may
excuse a student pursuant to this subsection for the days on which the
religious holy days are observed and for the days on which the student must
travel to and from the site where the student will observe the holy days.
   C.   Enforcement; Affirmative Defenses: It shall be the duty of the
attendance officer to enforce the provisions of this section. In the
prosecution of a parent, guardian, or other person having custody of a child
for violation of any provision of this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the parent, guardian, or other person having custody of the child
had made substantial and reasonable efforts to comply with the compulsory
attendance requirements of this section but was unable to cause the child to
attend school. If the court determines the affirmative defense is valid, it
shall dismiss the complaint against the parent, guardian, or other person
having custody of the child and shall notify the school attendance officer who
shall refer the child to the district attorney for Tulsa County for the filing
of a child in need of supervision petition against the child pursuant to the
Oklahoma juvenile code 1 .
   D.   Violation; Penalties:
      1.   Any parent, guardian, custodian, child or other person violating any
of the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an
offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code.
      2.   Each day the child remains out of school after an oral and
documented or written warning has been given to the parent, guardian,
custodian, child or other person or the child has been ordered to school by the
juvenile court shall constitute a separate offense.
      3.   At the trial of any person charged with violating the provisions of
this section, the attendance records of the child or ward may be presented in
court by any authorized employee of the school district. (Ord. 539, 9-6-2005;
amd. 2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 10A OS § 2-1-101 et seq.
6-2-4: GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS MAY CONSUME ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits or wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent (1/2%) or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit
for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with
other substances. This term includes intoxicating beverages and "low point
beer" as defined in this section.
   GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Includes beverages containing more than three and
two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN:
      1.   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half
of one percent (1/2%) by volume, and not more than three and two-tenths percent
(3.2%) alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or cereal malt
beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley or
other grain, malt or similar products.
   MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
   PREMISES: Any residence or other private property, place, or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
   RESPONSE COSTS: The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including, but not
limited to: 1) salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement,
fire, or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent
responding to, remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the
administrative costs attributable to such response(s); 2) the cost of any
medical treatment for any law enforcement, code enforcement, fire, or other
emergency response personnel injured responding to, remaining at, or leaving
the scene of a gathering; 3) the cost of repairing any city equipment or
property damaged, and the cost of the use of any such equipment in responding
to, remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering; and 4) any other
allowable costs related to the enforcement of this section.
   B.   Consumption By Minors: Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful
for any minor to:
      1.   Consume any alcoholic beverage at any public place or any place open
to the public; or
      2.   Consume any alcoholic beverage at any place not open to the public
unless, in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage, that
minor is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   C.   Hosting, Permitting Or Allowing Gatherings Where Alcohol Is Present:
      1.   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises, to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting drivers' licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in subsection C1 of this
section.
   D.   Exemptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
      2.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use of
alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public, then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as a nonfamily gathering.
      3.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public,
then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
nonreligious gathering.
      4.   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the state
of Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 579, 8-20-2007)
   E.   Violation; Penalties: Any adult person who shall violate the provisions
of this section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code, plus all court costs and statutory penalties. (Ord. 579,
8-20-2007; amd. 2013 Code)
   F.   Reservation Of Legal Options: Violations of this section may be
prosecuted by the city criminally, civilly, and/or administratively as provided
by this code. The city may seek administrative fees and response costs
associated with the enforcement of this section through all remedies or
procedures provided by statute, ordinance, or law. This section shall not limit
the authority of peace officers or private citizens to make arrests for any
criminal offense arising out of conduct regulated by this section, nor shall
they limit the city's ability to initiate and prosecute any criminal offense
arising out of the same circumstances necessitating the application of this
section.
   G.   Inapplicability Of Provisions: This section shall not apply where
prohibited or preempted by state or federal law. (Ord. 579, 8-20-2007)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Permit Required Generally
6-3-2: Public Displays
6-3-3: Individual Use Of Fireworks
6-3-4: Sale Of Fireworks
6-3-5: Emergency Suspension
6-3-6: Violation; Penalty
6-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED GENERALLY:
It is unlawful to manufacture, sell, furnish, possess, display, or use any
fireworks within the city unless the appropriate federal, state and/or
municipal fireworks permit or license, as applicable, has been obtained. (Ord.
693, 12-15-2014)
6-3-2: PUBLIC DISPLAYS:
Supervised public displays shall be permitted with a permit issued by the city,
subject to compliance with the requirements of the city fire department and the
national fire protection act (NFPA) 1123. The use of fireworks before a
proximate audience (as defined by the NFPA) shall be permitted with a fireworks
permit and subject to compliance with NFPA 1126. Permits may be obtained from
the city at a fee as established by the city manager and posted publicly. The
permit fee may be waived, upon written request, in the sole discretion of the
city manager, for the benefit of qualified tax exempt organizations as defined
in subsection
6-3-3B of this chapter. Permits must be available for inspection by the city at
all times during the display, including the setup and tear down of the launch
site and staging area. (Ord. 693, 12-15-2014)
6-3-3: INDIVIDUAL USE OF FIREWORKS:
   A.   Permit Required: The use of class 1.4G fireworks by individuals shall
be allowed only under a permit as described in subsections B and C of this
section. (Ord. 593, 4-21-2008; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Any devices suitable for use by the public that conform
with the requirements of the United States consumer products safety commission
(CPSC) and designed primarily to produce visible effects by combustion, and
some small devices designed to produce an audible effect. The term "consumer
fireworks" shall not include toy cap pistols and caps, blank cartridges,
railroad flares and model rockets or any novelty. This definition shall not
impose labeling requirements for any fireworks or novelties other than those
required under federal law.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS: Fireworks devices that are primarily intended for
commercial displays which are designed to produce visible and/or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. Display fireworks include,
but are not limited to, salutes containing more than two (2) grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than forty
grams (40 g) of pyrotechnic compositions and other exhibition display items
that exceed the limits for consumer fireworks according to the department of
transportation (DOT).
   DISTRIBUTOR: Any person who sells fireworks and novelties to other
distributors, wholesalers or retailers for resale or provides them as part of a
pyrotechnic display service in the state of Oklahoma.
   FIREWORKS: Any composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible
or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation, and
which are further described as consumer fireworks 1.4G, display fireworks 1.3G,
articles, pyrotechnic 1.4G or 1.4S as defined by the United States department
of transportation (DOT) title 49, CFR.
   MANUFACTURER: Any person engaged in the making or constructing of fireworks.
   NOVELTY: A device containing small amounts of pyrotechnic and/or explosive
composition. Such devices produce limited visible or audible effects. These
items must be approved by the United States department of transportation (DOT)
or have been deregulated by DOT.
   PERSON: Any corporation, association, partnership or one or more
individuals.
   RETAILER: Any person who purchases fireworks and novelties for resale to
consumers only. A retailer who sells fireworks to the consumer buys only an
Oklahoma retail license and may purchase merchandise in or out of the state as
long as the retailer buys from a person that has a legal license to do business
in the state of Oklahoma.
   TAX EXEMPT ORGANIZATION: Any legal entity recognized by the internal revenue
service as an organization exempt from federal income taxes under 26 U.S. Code
section 501.
   WHOLESALER: Any person who purchases fireworks and novelties for resale only
to retailers and consumers. (Ord. 686, 6-2-2014)
   C.   Permissible Discharges: Persons within the city limits may ignite or
otherwise discharge permissible fireworks only from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., and only on dates approved by the city manager,
provided the following conditions are met: (Ord. 693, 12-15-2014)
      1.   The city manager will post the approved dates each year at city
hall. (Ord. 593, 4-21-2008; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   Such fireworks must be ignited or otherwise discharged on a
noncombustible surface of sufficient size to contain the entire ground portion
of the display and not closer than twenty five feet (25') to any permanent
structure which is not on premises owned or lawfully occupied by the permit
holder or a person igniting or otherwise discharging the fireworks under the
supervision of the permit holder, provided that no person shall be allowed to
ignite or otherwise discharge fireworks on the surface of any public street or
highway nor closer than fifteen feet (15') to any private residence.
      3.   An adult person shall obtain a permit from the city at a cost to be
set by the city council; said permit identifying the adult in charge of the use
of permitted fireworks by name and address, and also identifying the proposed
location on premises owned or lawfully occupied by the permit holder or owned
or lawfully occupied by a person igniting or otherwise discharging fireworks
under the supervision of the permit holder. Applications for said permits shall
be made available during normal business hours from April 1 through July 3 of
any given year, or on such other dates as may be approved and specially
announced by the city manager, in his sole discretion and for only such time as
announced. Permits are valid only for the year of issuance. (Ord. 693, 12-15-
2014)
      4.   The adult permit holder in charge of the use must be physically
present for any household member to use the permissible fireworks and within
one hundred feet (100') of the point of display, and have the permit posted in
a place of prominence during the discharge of the fireworks for examination by
any law enforcement officer.
      5.   The permit holder is further responsible for the cleaning up of any
debris caused by any person discharging fireworks under the permit holder.
(Ord. 593, 4-21-2008; amd. 2013 Code)
      6.   Private persons may not ignite or otherwise discharge fireworks
within any city park, nor on any highway or any street within the city limits.
(Ord. 693, 12-15-2014)
   D.   Possession By Or Sale To Minors: The possession or sale of any
fireworks to or by any individual under the age of twelve (12) years shall be
unlawful within the city, unless under the immediate and direct supervision of
a parent, guardian, or other responsible adult in possession of a current
permit. (Ord. 593, 4-21-2008; amd. 2013 Code)
6-3-4: SALE OF FIREWORKS:
The unpermitted sale or display for sale of fireworks shall be unlawful within
the city. A license for the sale or display for sale of fireworks shall be
issued where the following conditions are met:
   A.   The property proposed as the site for sale has direct access on an
arterial street and adequate on site parking so that the operation of the sales
area can be conducted without interference with travel on the paved surface of
the artery.
   B.   Only class 1.4G fireworks, as defined by the United States department
of transportation, are sold on the premises. (Ord. 686, 6-2-2014)
   C.   Fireworks sales shall be permitted from June 15 through July 4 of each
year, and only on such other dates as may be approved and specially announced
by the city manager as a single exception to the foregoing limitation. (Ord.
693, 12-15-2014)
   D.   The vendor shall post and distribute a notice conforming to the
requirements of this chapter to each purchaser of fireworks; said notice to be
provided by the city.
   E.   The owner or vendor shall maintain commercial general liability
insurance in an amount of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
on each location, and shall submit a corresponding declaration page or other
evidence of such insurance with the license application.
   F.   There have been no significant accidents reported to the city from
previous operations at the location to be permitted.
   G.   The vendor at each location must obtain an annual license from the city
at a cost to be established by the city council and must also provide a copy of
the state sales tax permit. Such license shall be posted at each point of sale.
   H.   Vendors that are qualified tax exempt organizations, as defined in this
chapter, shall be exempt from the payment of the cost of the license in
subsection G of this section. (Ord. 686, 6-2-2014)
6-3-5: EMERGENCY SUSPENSION:
In the event that the governor of the state of Oklahoma calls a red flag fire
alert or burn ban for the area encompassing the city and/or the city fire
department determines that the city is in fire danger due to weather
conditions, the mayor may declare an emergency and cause the use of fireworks
to be terminated and declare them to be illegal during the emergency period.
(Ord. 593, 4-21-2008)
6-3-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who: a) possesses, sells or uses fireworks in any way other than as
allowed by this chapter; b) uses fireworks between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.; c) uses fireworks at any time on
any date not approved by the city manager; d) fails to remove debris caused by
such person or by any person discharging fireworks under their supervision,
whether such debris is on private or public property; or e) uses any fireworks
during a red flag fire alert, burn ban for the area encompassing the city, or
emergency period declared by the mayor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an
offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (Ord. 693, 12-15-2014)
CHAPTER 4
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-4-1: Custodian Of Property
6-4-2: Record Requirements
6-4-3: Sale Of Unclaimed Property
6-4-4: Property Found By Private Person
6-4-5: Recovery By Owner
6-4-1: CUSTODIAN OF PROPERTY:
All personal property which comes into the possession of any police officer,
which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the possession
of any prisoner or person suspected of or charged with being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto, shall be, by
the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge of the chief
of police. (2002 Code § 2.68.010)
6-4-2: RECORD REQUIREMENTS:
The chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose, make a
record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and circumstances of
the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was taken, if taken
from a person, and the place where it was taken or found, and the record shall
also disclose the subsequent disposal thereof, including (if the property is
sold) the date of sale, name and address of the purchaser, and the amount for
which it was sold. (2002 Code § 2.68.010; amd. 2013 Code)
6-4-3: SALE OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   The chief of police or designee is authorized to dispose of personal
property or money, or legal tender as provided in this section which has come
into the possession of the chief of police in any manner if:
      1.   The owner of the personal property or money or legal tender is
unknown or has not claimed the property;
      2.   The property or money or legal tender has been in the custody of the
chief of police for at least ninety (90) days; and
      3.   The property or money or legal tender or any part thereof is no
longer needed to be held as evidence or for any other purpose in connection
with any prosecution or litigation.
   B.   The city shall file an application in the district court for Tulsa
County requesting the authority of the court to conduct a sale of the personal
property which has market value. The application shall include a list
describing the property including any identifying numbers and marks, the date
the property came into the possession of the chief of police, and the name of
the owner and the person in last possession, if different, and the address of
the person, if known. The court shall set the application for hearing not less
than fifteen (15) days after filing of the application.
   C.   In any instance where the property has an actual or apparent value of
more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), at least eleven (11) days prior
to the date of the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be sent by first class
mail to each owner at the address as listed in the application. If the owner of
any property with an actual or apparent value exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) is unable to be served notice by first class mail, notice shall be
provided by one publication at least three (3) days prior to the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in Tulsa County. The notice shall contain a
brief description of the property of the owner and the place and date of the
hearing. The notice shall be posted at the assigned place for the posting of
municipal notices, and at two (2) other public places in the city.
   D.   Property with no market value may be destroyed or disposed of without
the requirement to seek court authorization. Property shall be considered to
have "Market Value" if the actual or apparent value is more than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00).
   E.   If no owner appears and establishes ownership to the property at the
hearing, the court shall enter an order authorizing the chief of police to
dispose of the property as follows:
      1.   Donate the property having value of less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) to a not-for-profit corporation as defined in 18 Oklahoma Statutes
for use by needy families;
      2.   Sell the personal property for cash to the highest bidder, after at
least five (5) days' notice of the sale has been published;
      3.   Transfer the property to a third-party agent under contract with the
governing body of the municipality which is the situs of the property for sale
by internet or other electronic means, regardless of whether the sale structure
or distribution site is within the state of Oklahoma; or
      4.   By any other means as determined appropriate by the court including,
but not limited to, destruction.
      Regardless of the means of disposition, the chief of police shall make a
return of the donation or sale, and the order of the court confirming the
donation or sale shall vest title to the property in the recipient or
purchaser. After payment of court costs and other expenses, the remainder of
money received from the sale of the personal property shall be deposited into
the municipal general fund.
   F.   All money or legal tender which has come into the possession of the
chief of police pursuant to the circumstances provided in subsection A of this
section shall be transferred by the chief of police to the city finance
director/treasurer for deposit into the municipal general fund. Prior to any
transfer, the chief of police shall file an application in the district court
requesting the court to enter an order authorizing the chief of police to
transfer the money for deposit into the municipal general fund. The application
shall describe the money or legal tender, the date the same came into the
possession of the chief of police, and the name of the owner and the address of
the owner, if known. Upon filing the application which may be joined with an
application as described in subsection B of this section, a hearing shall be
set not less than ten (10) days nor more than twenty (20) days from the filing
of the application. Notice of the hearing shall be given as provided in
subsection C of this section. The notice shall state that upon failure of
anyone to appear to prove ownership to the money or legal tender, the court
shall order the same to be deposited into the municipal general fund. The
notice may be combined with a notice to sell personal property as provided in
subsection B of this section. If no one appears to claim and prove ownership to
the money or legal tender at the hearing, the court shall order the same to be
transferred to the municipal general fund as provided in this subsection.
   G.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dangerous or
deadly weapons, narcotic or poisonous drugs, explosives, or any property of any
kind or character, which the possession of is prohibited by law. By order of
the trial court, any property filed as an exhibit or held by the city shall be
destroyed or sold or disposed of pursuant to the conditions prescribed in the
order.
   H.   The city is hereby authorized to establish a procedure for the
registration of "lost and found" property. The procedure shall give the finder
of any property the option of relinquishing any future claim to found property
at the time its possession is surrendered to the police or other agent of the
city, or of retaining possession of the property after registering its
description and the finder's identity with the police department or other agent
of the city. Only property in which the finder relinquishes any future claim to
its ownership will be stored in city police property rooms.
   I.   The city may provide by ordinance that a percentage of the money or
legal tender deposited into the municipal general fund as provided in
subsection D or E of this section may be paid as a finder's fee for services
rendered to any person who found the unclaimed personal property or money or
legal tender and delivered it to, or registered it with, the chief of police or
other agent of the city. (2002 Code § 2.68.020; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 818, 1-16-
2024)
6-4-4: PROPERTY FOUND BY PRIVATE PERSON:
Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or
employee which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if not
claimed or identified within thirty (30) days, shall, within ten (10)
additional days thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him or
her and a record of such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request
return of the property to him or her within ten (10) days, then the chief of
police shall sell the property as if it had been found by a public official or
employee or, on instruction by the city manager, deliver it to some department
or office of the city government for its use. (2002 Code § 2.68.030)
6-4-5: RECOVERY BY OWNER:
If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor shall
be returned to the purchaser upon verified claim being submitted and approved
by the city council. (2002 Code § 2.68.040)
CHAPTER 5
NUISANCES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Municipal Power To Define And Abate Nuisances
6-5-2: Definitions
6-5-3: Interpretation
6-5-4: Nuisances Enumerated
6-5-4-1: Public Nuisances Affecting Health
6-5-4-2: Public Nuisances Affecting Morals And Decency
6-5-4-3: Public Nuisances Affecting Peace And Safety
6-5-4-4: Public Nuisances Affecting Or Caused By Animals
6-5-4-5: Establishments Without Water Or Waste Disposal
6-5-5: Agricultural Activities Presumed Not Nuisances
6-5-6: Remedies Against Nuisances
6-5-7: Remedies And Procedures Cumulative
6-5-8: Liability Of Successive Property Owners
6-5-9: Enforcement Officials
6-5-10: Abatement Procedures
6-5-10-1: Generally
6-5-10-2: Weeds, Trash And Graffiti
6-5-10-3: Dilapidated, Unsecured Buildings Or Structures
6-5-10-4: Extraordinary Abatement Procedures
6-5-1: MUNICIPAL POWER TO DEFINE AND ABATE NUISANCES:
The municipal governing body of any Oklahoma city or town may declare what
shall constitute a nuisance and provide for the prevention, removal and
abatement of nuisances. Cities and towns in this state have the statutory right
and power to determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within
their respective corporate limits and, for the protection of the public health,
public parks and public water supply, shall have such power outside of the
corporate limits. Wherever it is practical to do so, cities and towns also have
the power summarily to abate any nuisance after notice to the owner, and an
opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be given. Further, any public
nuisance may be abated by any public body or officer authorized by law. The
city has adopted the procedures set forth in this chapter for the declaration,
abatement and removal of nuisances. Such procedures are not exclusive of any
other remedy available to the city under statute or ordinance. Such procedures
are not exclusive of any other remedy available to the city under statute or
ordinance. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
6-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings prescribed in this section except in cases where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning. In cases where a different meaning is prescribed
by statute or ordinance, it is intended that all meanings shall apply to the
fullest extent possible and, in the event of conflicting meanings, the
contradictory meaning shall apply solely for purposes of enforcing such statute
or ordinance.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: That employee of the city who is designated by this
chapter to carry out the duties of the city council with respect to the
detection, investigation, reporting and, to the extent permissible under law,
summary abatement of public nuisances. For all purposes related to the
enforcement of this chapter, the city of Glenpool's administrative officer
shall be the person then currently occupying the position of code enforcement
officer, or such substantially similar position or title as may be adopted by
city staff.
ADVERTISING: Any letter, word, name, number, symbol, slogan, message, drawing,
picture, writing, or other mark of any kind lawfully placed on property by an
owner or tenant of the property, or an agent of such owner or tenant, for the
purpose of promoting products or services or conveying information to the
public.
AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY(IES): Means and includes, but is not limited to: the
growing or raising of horticultural and viticultural crops, aquaculture,
berries, grain, hay, poultry, livestock, dairy products and forestry
activities; improvements to or expansions of such identified activities
including, but not limited to, new technology, pens, barns, fences, and other
improvements designed for the sheltering, restriction, or feeding of animal or
aquatic life, for storage of produce or feed, or for storage or maintenance of
implements related to such activities. If the expansion is part of the same
operating facility or part of a business under single ownership, the expansion
need not be contiguous.
BOARDING AND SECURING OR BOARDED AND SECURED: The closing, barricading, locking
or other blocking of all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the
building or structure.
CLEANING, CLEAN, OR CLEANED: The removal of trash from property.
DILAPIDATED BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure which:
   A.   Through neglect or injury, lacks necessary repairs or otherwise is in a
state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent that the structure is a hazard
to the health, safety, or welfare of its human or animal occupants or the
general public;
   B.   Is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of necessary repairs and
is considered uninhabitable by humans or animals or is a hazard to the health,
safety, and welfare of its human or animal occupants or the general public;
   C.   Is determined by the city council or the administrative officer of the
city council to be an unsecured building, as defined in this section, more than
three (3) times within any twelve (12) month period;
   D.   Has been boarded and secured, as defined in this section, for more than
thirty six (36) consecutive months; or
   E.   Is otherwise declared by the city council in the course of a hearing as
to which the property owner has been given notice to constitute a public
nuisance.
FARMLAND: Means and includes, but is not limited to, land devoted primarily to
the production of livestock and/or agricultural commodities.
FORESTRY ACTIVITY(IES): Any activity associated with the reforesting, growing,
managing, protecting and harvesting of timber, wood and forest products
including, but not limited to, forestry buildings and structures.
GRAFFITI: Without limitation, means any letter, word, name, number, symbol,
slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing, or other mark of any kind visible
to the public that is drawn, painted, chiseled, scratched, scrawled, stenciled
or etched onto the surface of a rock, tree, wall, bridge, fence, gate, building
or other structure, or onto any public or private property without public or
private authority to do so, and without respect to message or purpose;
provided, this definition shall not include advertising or any other letter,
word, name, number, symbol, slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing, or
other mark of any kind lawfully placed on property by an owner of the property,
a tenant of the property, or by an authorized agent for such owner or tenant.
NUISANCE:
   A.   Means and consists of the unlawful doing of an act, or omitting to
perform a duty, which act or omission disrupts the welfare of the citizens of
the city in any of the following ways. Without limitation, the term "nuisance"
shall include any action, thing, occupation or use of property that:
      1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, comfort or repose
of others; or
      2.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake, river, stream, creek, canal or basin,
or any public park, square, street or highway; or
      3.   Offends common standards of public decency; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use of
property; or
      5.   Without necessity or justification diminishes property values; or
      6.   Otherwise is an act prohibited, or the nonperformance of a duty
required, by any provision of this chapter where such act or nonperformance is
expressly identified as a nuisance.
   B.   Unless expressly identified otherwise in any section of this chapter,
the term "nuisance" shall refer without distinction to public and private
nuisances. Nothing which is done or maintained under the express authority of a
statute or ordinance can be deemed a nuisance.
OWNER: In reference to real property, means the owner of record as shown by the
most current tax rolls of the Tulsa County treasurer.
PRIVATE NUISANCE: A public nuisance that so specially or disproportionately
impacts one or more persons as to give such persons the lawful standing to seek
civil or criminal redress. Thus, a private person may maintain an action
against a public nuisance if it is especially injurious to that person, but not
otherwise. The city may not act with respect to a private nuisance alone, that
is, without its being first declared a public nuisance.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A nuisance that adversely affects: an entire community or
neighborhood; or the public at large; or any number of persons residing at,
lawfully visiting or otherwise situated upon any public or private property
other than the property from which the nuisance emanates or occurs; or the safe
and peaceable enjoyment of any public or private property other than the
property from which the nuisance emanates or occurs (collectively, "the
public"). This chapter pertains only to, and the city has, jurisdiction to
prohibit and penalize only, a public nuisance.
REMOVAL, REMOVE OR REMOVED: When used in relation to the eradication of
graffiti, means the act of taking graffiti off of, or masking the presence of
graffiti on, any surface.
TENANT: Any person shown by the records of the Tulsa County clerk's office as a
lessee of property, or any person otherwise lawfully occupying or doing
business and in actual physical control of property as to which they are not
the owner, whether with or without the consent of the owner.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal, waste, or matter of any kind or form that is useless, uncared
for, discarded, or abandoned, regardless of value.
UNFIT FOR HUMAN OR ANIMAL OCCUPANCY: A building or structure that, due to lack
of necessary repairs or the maintenance of utility services, is considered
uninhabitable and represents a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of
humans, animals or the general public.
UNSECURED BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure which is not
occupied by a legal or equitable owner thereof, or by a lessee of a legal or
equitable owner, and into which there are one or more unsecured openings such
as broken windows, unlocked windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in
exterior walls, holes in the roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways,
unlocked basement or cellar hatchways or other similar unsecured openings which
would facilitate unauthorized entry into the structure.
WEED:
   A.   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs,
or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a detriment
to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of weeds identified as such; or
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash; or
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin; or
      4.   Gives off noxious odors or odors unpleasant to a person of ordinary
sensibilities; or
      5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "weed" shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011; amd. 2013
Code)
6-5-3: INTERPRETATION:
The listing of certain acts, facts, conditions, or other things or matters
herein declared to be nuisances is not meant and shall not be read to be
exhaustive and shall not be construed to deny that any other act, fact,
condition or thing may be a nuisance if such thing is a nuisance under any laws
of the state or ordinances of the city. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
6-5-4: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
6-5-4-1: PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH:
The following are declared to be public nuisances affecting health:
   A.   All decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to the public.
   B.   All diseased animals running at large.
   C.   All ponds, pools of water, or vessels holding stagnant water in which
mosquitoes or other insects can breed or proliferate.
   D.   Milk produced by cows which have not been tested and found free from
tuberculosis within the year previous to the offering of such milk for sale to
the public.
   E.   Carcasses of animals not buried or otherwise disposed of in a sanitary
manner within twenty four (24) hours after death.
   F.   Accumulations of any substance or growth which is or becomes a breeding
place for insects or vermin.
   G.   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not flytight or are contrary to
ordinances relating thereto.
   H.   Noxious weeds or other rank growth of vegetation upon public or private
property.
   I.   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders in such quantities as
to render the occupancy or property uncomfortable to a person of ordinary
sensibilities.
   J.   Offensive trades and businesses as defined by ordinance and not
licensed as provided by law.
   K.   All public exposure of persons having contagious or infectious
diseases.
   L.   The use of a common drinking cup or roller towel in a public facility.
   M.   The distribution of samples of medicine or drugs, unless such samples
are handed or otherwise directly delivered to persons by a duly licensed
physician.
   N.   All animal pens or loose animals contrary to ordinances relating
thereto.
   O.   All abandoned or discarded refrigerators or iceboxes that do not have a
latch or other device whereby such refrigerator or icebox can be opened from
the inside.
   P.   The possession of lighted tobacco in any form when such possession is
in any indoor place used by or open to the public, in any enclosed indoor area
where individuals other than employees are invited or permitted, in any indoor
workplace, within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance, exit or air intake of any
such place, or in any vehicle providing public transportation, except where
specifically allowed by law.
   Q.   All other acts, omissions of acts, occupations, and uses of property
which are in fact a menace to the public health. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011; amd.
2013 Code)
6-5-4-2: PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY:
The following are declared to be public nuisances affecting morals and decency:
   A.   All unlawful gambling houses, betting, bookmaking, slot machines,
punchboards, and other similar devices, contrivances and apparatus used in such
occupations.
   B.   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous or
otherwise unlawful sexual activity. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
   C.   All places where alcoholic beverages and low point beer are
manufactured, sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished in violation of
law, or where persons are permitted to resort for the purpose of drinking
alcoholic beverages and low point beer kept for sale, barter or distribution in
violation of law, and all liquors, bottles, kegs, pumps, bars and other
property kept at and used for maintaining such a place. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011;
amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   Any vehicle used for any illegal purpose.
   E.   All obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines and newspapers when
displayed in a manner that makes them visible to the general public or
passersby. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
6-5-4-3: PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY:
The following are declared to be public nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   A.   All snow and ice not removed from sidewalks within twelve (12) hours
after the snow or ice has ceased to fall or accumulate thereon. (Ord. 646, 3-
21-2011)
   B.   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons driving vehicles approaching an intersection of public highways from
having clear view of traffic approaching such intersection from cross streets,
for five hundred feet (500') along such cross streets measured from the
property line. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk or street, and
which are less than eight feet (8') above the surface of such public sidewalk
or nine feet (9') above the surface of such street.
   D.   All wires over streets, alleys or public grounds which are strung less
than fifteen feet (15') above the surface of the ground.
   E.   All buildings, walls and other structures that have been damaged by
fire, decay, deterioration or otherwise, and/or which are so situated as to
endanger the safety and health of the public, or buildings erected or
maintained in violation of any ordinance.
   F.   All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner, in any amount contrary to ordinance.
   G.   All use or display of fireworks when same is prohibited by ordinance.
   H.   All loud or unusual noises and annoying vibrations which offend the
peace and quiet of persons of ordinary sensibilities.
   I.   All buildings and all alterations to buildings made, constructed or
erected within the fire limits as established by ordinance or otherwise in
violation of the ordinances directing the manner and materials of construction.
   J.   Obstructions, constructions, and/or excavations affecting the ordinary
use by the public of streets, alleys and sidewalks or public grounds, except
under such conditions as are allowed by ordinance.
   K.   Any use of the public streets or sidewalks that causes large crowds of
people to gather, obstructing traffic in the free use of the streets or
sidewalks except as provided by ordinance.
   L.   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over the
streets or sidewalks, so situated or constructed as to endanger public safety,
or in violation of ordinance.
   M.   The allowing of rainwater, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any sidewalk or street, or to run or flow across any sidewalk.
   N.   All barbed wire fences that are located within three feet (3') of any
public sidewalk.
   O.   The distribution of handbills, except as provided by ordinance. (Ord.
646, 3-21-2011)
6-5-4-4: PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING OR CAUSED BY ANIMALS:
Animals and fowl may be declared a nuisance when:
   A.   Any animal or fowl scratches or digs into, or tramps on or over, any
flowerbed, lawn, garden, tilled soil, vine, shrubbery or small plants, and in
doing so commits an injury to the same.
   B.   Any animal or fowl habitually prowls around on any private property to
the annoyance of the owner or occupant of the property.
   C.   Any animal or fowl goes into any garbage can or other waste vessel, or
turns the same over, or scatters the contents of the same on the ground.
   D.   Any animal or fowl causes the continued making of loud or unusual
noises which annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
6-5-4-5: ESTABLISHMENTS WITHOUT WATER OR WASTE DISPOSAL:
   A.   All private residences and commercial buildings occupied at any time by
persons as a place of residence, consumption of food and beverage or employment
within the city shall be connected to an approved water supply system, such
water to be suitable for potable purposes.
   B.   All such residences or commercial establishments within the city shall
be equipped with an approved waste disposal service, such as septic tank,
private approved lagoon system or public sewer system.
   C.   Any private residence or semiprivate residence or dwelling where people
live or reside, whether single-family residence, duplex, or multiple-family
housing building, which does not have continuous and permanent hookup/
attachment to a potable water supply system and an approved waste disposable
system shall be deemed a nuisance and shall be subject to the procedures of
abatement set forth in this chapter, and/or imposition of fines with each day
constituting a separate offense, and/or condemnation as a public nuisance.
(Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
   D.   Penalty for maintenance of such a public nuisance as described in this
section shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code per offense, and each day shall constitute a separate
offense. Additionally, the city may impose a nuisance abatement fee, such
abatement fee being the cost of the condemnation of the subject property as a
public nuisance. Such cost shall constitute a lien upon the property when duly
filed in the office of the county clerk. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
6-5-5: AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES PRESUMED NOT NUISANCES:
   A.   Agricultural activities conducted on farm or ranch land, if consistent
with generally accepted agricultural practices and established prior to nearby
nonagricultural activities, are rebuttably presumed to be reasonable and do not
constitute a nuisance unless the activity has a substantial adverse effect on
the public health and safety. If agricultural activity is undertaken in
conformity with federal, state and local laws and regulations, it is rebuttably
presumed to be good agricultural practice and not adversely affecting the
public health and safety. No action for nuisance shall be brought against
agricultural activities on farm or ranch land that have lawfully been in
operation for two (2) years or more prior to the date of bringing the action.
The established date of operation is the date on which an agricultural activity
on farm or ranch land commenced.
   B.   If physical facilities engaged in operation of the agricultural
activity or the farm or ranch are subsequently expanded or new technology
adopted, the established date of operation for each change is not a separately
and independently established date of operation and commencement of the
expanded activity does not divest the farm or ranch of a previously established
date of operation.
   C.   The presumption that agricultural activities are not a nuisance may be
rebutted and overcome by sufficient positive evidence that some part of all of
such activities create or cause a substantial adverse effect on the public
health and safety. In any action for nuisance in which agricultural activities
are alleged to be a nuisance, and which action is found to be frivolous by the
court, the defendant shall recover from the plaintiff the aggregate amount of
costs and expenses determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred in
connection with defending the action, together with a reasonable amount for
attorney fees.
   D.   This section does not relieve agricultural activities of the duty to
abide by state and federal laws, including, but not limited to, the Oklahoma
concentrated animal feeding operations act and the Oklahoma registered poultry
feeding operations act. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
6-5-6: REMEDIES AGAINST NUISANCES:
   A.   The remedies which the city may bring against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Criminal action instituted by indictment or information in district
court, or by citation in municipal court; or
      2.   A civil action for damages; or
      3.   Abatement, as set out in this chapter.
   B.   The remedies by indictment, information or citation are regulated by
the law on crimes and punishment and criminal procedure.
   C.   The remedies which an individual person may bring against a private
nuisance are the same as those which the city may bring against a public
nuisance; except, that a private person may only report criminal conduct but is
without the authority to prosecute.
      1.   A person injured by a private nuisance may directly abate it by
removing or, if necessary, destroying the thing which constitutes the nuisance,
but only so long as such removal or destruction may be done without trespassing
onto private property, committing a breach of the peace or inflicting physical
damage or injury to property or persons.
      2.   Where a private nuisance results from a mere omission of the
wrongdoer and cannot be abated without entering upon the land of the wrongdoer,
reasonable notice must be given before entering to abate it.
      3.   A private person taking "self-help" direct action to abate a
nuisance does so at his or her own risk with respect to compliance with the
law.
   D.   The abatement of a nuisance, whether by the city or by a private
person, does not prejudice the right of either the city or such person to
recover damages for its past existence. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
6-5-7: REMEDIES AND PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The remedies that may be taken against a nuisance, and the various procedures
for implementing those remedies and/or abating the nuisance, that are set out
in this chapter are not exclusive of other provisions of law or ordinance and
may be undertaken either instead of or in addition to such other provisions.
The city may elect to undertake any and all available remedies and procedures,
at law or in equity, available to the city under this chapter, any other
ordinance or any statute with respect to abating any nuisance. (Ord. 646, 3-21-
2011)
6-5-8: LIABILITY OF SUCCESSIVE PROPERTY OWNERS:
Every successive owner of property who neglects or fails to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, although originally created or
commenced by a former owner, is liable for the nuisance in the same way and to
the same extent as the former owner. A continuing nuisance means one that was
commenced by, or permitted on property owned by, a former owner and continues
without abatement during the ownership of one or more successive owners,
regardless whether constant or sporadic. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
6-5-9: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   The city council has the power and the duty to enforce the laws and
ordinances pertaining to nuisances. The fact that any administrative officer,
other public official, board, commission or agency may be delegated certain
powers to abate nuisances shall not be construed as denying or abrogating the
power of the city council to act on its own motion in all such matters.
   B.   The city council may, and by this chapter does, to the fullest extent
permitted by statute, delegate to the administrative officer of the city the
power to enforce the laws and ordinances pertaining to nuisances. The
administrative officer may, to the fullest extent necessary and appropriate,
rely upon the resources and powers of such other public official, board,
commission or agency as may, within the scope of its lawful authority, provide
assistance for the abatement of nuisances. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
6-5-10: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
6-5-10-1: GENERALLY:
   A.   Abatement Required: In all cases in which:
      1.   A nuisance is determined to exist; and
      2.   The condemnation, removal, prevention or abatement of same is
necessary; and
      3.   In the doing of such condemnation, removal, prevention or abatement,
the demolition or other change in the physical condition of any real property,
any building, structure or edifice shall occur; or the discontinuation of a
condition which exists from day to day shall occur; or the discontinuation of
all or part of any trade or occupation that creates the nuisance shall occur;
and
      4.   Where other procedures are not specially provided for by subsequent
sections of this chapter,
such nuisance shall be abated as provided herein.
   B.   First Notice To Property Owner: Unless a condition of emergency
necessitates otherwise, and upon determination by the administrative officer
that a nuisance exists on any property within the city, the administrative
officer shall send the subject property owner an advance notice advising him or
her that his or her property contains a condition that is subject to these
procedures and giving such property owner a minimum of ten (10) days in which
to either abate the condition or contact the administrative officer to propose
an abatement plan that is satisfactory to both parties. If the administrative
officer agrees to an abatement plan, he or she shall monitor compliance
according to its terms.
   C.   Second Notice To Property Owner: Upon either of disregard by the
property owner of the advance notice prescribed by subsection B of this section
or noncompliance of the property owner with an approved abatement plan, the
administrative officer shall cause a second notice to be delivered to the
property owner by certified mail directing the property owner to abate the
nuisance and shall cause a copy of the notice to be posted in a conspicuous
place on the subject premises. The notice shall identify the subject property
of the alleged nuisance, identify the record owner or occupant of said
property, describe the conditions creating the nuisance in a manner sufficient
to allow a reasonable person to identify the nuisance, advise the property
owner what must be done in order to abate the nuisance and, to avoid further
liability, set a deadline for compliance of no fewer than fifteen (15) days
from certified receipt of the notice or, if certified delivery is declined, no
fewer than fifteen (15) days from posting of such notice, and advise the
property owner that failure to comply with such notice shall result in referral
of the matter to the city council for its consideration and possible action in
no fewer than fifteen (15) days from such receipt of the notice.
   D.   Third Notice; Direction To Appear Before City Council: If the property
owner or occupant disregards the notice prescribed by subsection C of this
section and has not abated the nuisance within the time period stated therein,
a third written notice shall be served on the person or persons who maintain,
operate or permit the nuisance, which notice shall fully set forth the name of
the party, if known, the date of such nuisance, the general character of the
nuisance, its location, and shall require the owner and/or occupant to appear
before the city council on a day named therein, in not fewer than ten (10) days
after service thereof, to show cause why the nuisance should not be abated,
prevented and removed. All such notices shall be signed by the administrative
officer or other officer designated by the city manager and shall be served by
the administrative officer or other officer designated by the city manager by
delivering in hand to the person a written copy of such notice if he or she can
be found or, in case he or she cannot be found, then by leaving a copy with
some occupant on the premises above the age of fourteen (14) years or by
posting a copy on the door or other convenient or conspicuous place on the
premises. In any case where personal delivery to the responsible party is not
possible, any form of alternate delivery shall also be supplemented by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
   E.   Hearing Before City Council: On the date designated in the notice
prescribed by subsection D of this section, the city council shall convene a
public hearing to determine whether the conditions alleged to create a nuisance
do create a nuisance and, if so, whether the nuisance is to be abated. The
property owner/occupant/other responsible party, the administrative officer or
other officer designated by the city manager and any witnesses called by either
of the foregoing shall be permitted to present evidence and testimony regarding
these questions. If the property owner/occupant/other responsible party does
not appear at the hearing, then, upon demonstration by the administrative
officer or other officer designated by the city manager of compliance with the
notice requirements, the city council shall deem such property owner/occupant/
other responsible party to be in default for failure to appear, and the alleged
nuisance shall be conclusively deemed to exist. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
   F.   Order Of Abatement: In all cases where the city council has determined,
based upon all evidence presented in the public hearing prescribed by
subsection E of this section or upon default by the property owner/occupant/
other responsible party for failure to appear at such hearing, that a nuisance
does exist, upon close of the public hearing, the city council shall decide by
vote whether to abate the nuisance. When the city council has determined that
any nuisance shall be abated, it shall be the duty of the city council to
direct the administrative officer or other officer designated by the city
manager to issue a written order requiring the abatement, prevention and
removal of the nuisance by the property owner/occupant/other responsible party
within a time named therein, which shall in all cases be no fewer than ten (10)
days and may be greater if the circumstances reasonably require. This notice
shall also advise the property owner of all potential consequences of failure
to comply with the order, including, without limitation, the issuance of a
municipal citation that may result in fines provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code for each offense, each day being a separate offense; the
costs of abatement by the city; the filing of a lien against the subject
property; and foreclosure of the lien. The administrative officer or other
officer designated by the city manager shall issue a written order reciting the
order of the city council, and certified by the city clerk, directing to the
property owner/occupant/other responsible party the terms and conditions of
abatement. All such notices shall be signed by the administrative officer or
other officer designated by the city manager and shall be served by the
administrative officer or other officer designated by the city manager by
delivering in hand to the person a written copy of such notice if he or she can
be found or, in case he or she cannot be found, then by leaving a copy with
some occupant on the premises above the age of fourteen (14) years or by
posting a copy on the door or other convenient or conspicuous place on the
premises. In any case where personal delivery to the responsible party is not
possible, any form of alternate delivery shall also be supplemented by
certified mail, return receipt requested. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
   G.   Abatement By City: In the event the property owner/occupant/other
responsible party disregards the foregoing order and the nuisance is not
otherwise abated within the time provided therein, a city employee or officer
designated by the city manager shall forthwith abate the nuisance by
condemning, removing, destroying, filling up, locking up, moving, or by any
other such procedures as is necessary to comply with the abatement order to the
greatest possible extent.
   H.   Certification Of Costs 1 : It shall be the duty of the foregoing
designee of the city manager abating such nuisance to create or cause to be
created a bill of costs to document and include all expenses incurred by the
city in the removal and abatement of such nuisance and to deliver the same to
the city clerk. The city clerk shall add any other costs related to the
abatement that are not included in the bill of costs presented by such
designee. The city clerk shall cause these costs to be certified and submitted
to the county treasurer in the same manner as and coequal with the lien of ad
valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and
superior to all other titles and liens against such property.
   I.   Lien Provisions; Civil Damages; Misdemeanor Complaint:
      1.   Any person who fails to remove and abate any nuisance, after proper
notice and opportunity to be heard and proper orders of the city council, shall
be liable to the city for all expenses incurred in the removal and abatement of
the nuisance, as declared by the itemized bill of costs signed by the city
clerk and submitted to the county treasurer in the same manner as and coequal
with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments,
as provided by subsection H of this section. Such costs and the interest
thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the costs are
certified to the county treasurer, and such lien shall continue until such
costs shall be fully paid. The property owner shall be served notice by the
city attorney of such property owner's opportunity to satisfy the lien prior to
the commencement of foreclosure proceedings. This notice shall be served by
delivery in hand to such property owner if he or she can be found or, in case
he or she cannot be found, then by leaving a copy with some occupant on the
premises above the age of fourteen (14) years or by posting a copy on the door
or other convenient or conspicuous place on the premises. In any case where
personal delivery to the property owner is not possible, any form of alternate
delivery shall also be supplemented by certified mail, return receipt
requested. If the property owner satisfies the lien, a release shall be filed
of record.
      2.   The foregoing lien may be enforced by foreclosure against the
subject property in the same manner as other liens. In the event the city
manager or his/her designee determines to proceed with foreclosure, the city
attorney shall ensure that the city observes all lawful requirements, including
publication of notice, to afford the property owner such rights of due process
as he or she would enjoy in the foreclosure of a tax lien.
      3.   The fact that the city has abated and removed a nuisance, or may
have commenced foreclosure proceedings, shall not excuse the party responsible
for the nuisance condition from any civil damages to person or property that
may have been caused by the nuisance condition prior to abatement. The city or
any private person, in the case of a private nuisance, may bring a civil action
to recover such damages in the Tulsa district court.
      4.   When damages to person or property result from a nuisance, as
defined in this chapter, the responsible party may also be liable for the
prosecution of a misdemeanor offense as otherwise provided by this code,
notwithstanding any abatement actions undertaken by the city. (Ord. 646, 3-21-
2011)
 
Notes
1 1. The processing fee for nuisance violations is on file in the offices of
  the community development department.
6-5-10-2: WEEDS, TRASH AND GRAFFITI:
   A.   The city council may cause weeds, grass, brush, trees or vegetation to
be cut on any lot or parcel of land and/or trash and/or graffiti to be removed
from property within the city limits in accordance with the following
procedures:
      1.   Nuisance Declared: Live or dead weeds, grass, brush, trees or
vegetation, when uncut, and trash unattended, and graffiti found on any
property, lot or parcel of land within the city are categorically declared to
be a nuisance.
      2.   Administrative Officer: As provided by statute, the city has
designated by this chapter the city's code enforcement officer to function as
the city's administrative officer to carry out the duties of the city council
in this subsection. Unless expressly stated otherwise, those functions assigned
to the city council have been delegated to the administrative officer.
      3.   Consent To Abate: The owner of subject property may give written
consent to the city authorizing the mowing of weeds or grass or the removal of
trash or graffiti. By giving written consent, the owner waives the right to a
hearing before the city council or otherwise to object to such mowing or
removal.
      4.   Power To Abate: In the event that consent of the owner cannot be
obtained or is refused, the administrative officer shall cause weeds or grass
to be cut or mowed and/or trash and/or graffiti to be removed from property
within the city limits in accordance with the procedures stated in this
subsection A.
      5.   Reporting Procedure: The administrative officer or any other
officer, employee or resident of the city who discovers an excessive growth of
grass or weeds, or an accumulation of trash, or the presence of graffiti upon
any premises within city limits by reason of which such premises appears to him
or her to be:
         a.   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and
the community;
         b.   Hazardous to traffic;
         c.   A fire hazard or other substantial danger to property,
shall report such condition to the administrative officer.
      6.   Notice Required: The administrative officer shall give the owner of
the subject property at least ten (10) days' notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
county treasurer's office before the administrative officer shall take any
further action.
      7.   Receipt Of Mailing; Posting Notice: At the time of mailing of notice
to the property owner, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the recipient. However, if the property owner cannot be located
within ten (10) days from the date of mailing, notice may be given by posting a
copy of the notice on the property or by publication, as defined in 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1-102, one time not less than ten (10) days prior to any
hearing or further action by the administrative officer.
      8.   Order To Abate: The notice shall order the property owner to cut
weeds, grass, brush, trees or vegetation close to the ground and/or to remove
all trash at any place where such conditions may exist on the entire premises,
including all parking areas, adjoining and surrounding lots, tracts or parcels
of ground under the same ownership. In the case of graffiti, the notice shall
request that the property owner give consent to the city for city personnel to
remove the graffiti.
      9.   Content Of Notice: The notice shall further state that, in relation
to grass, weeds and/or trash, unless such work is performed within ten (10)
days of the date of the notice, or an appeal is taken as provided in subsection
A13 of this section, the work shall be done by the city, and a notice of lien
shall be filed with the county clerk against the property for the costs due and
owing the city. In connection with graffiti, the notice shall state that,
unless written consent is given to the city for removal, the city shall assert
a right of entry and remove the graffiti under its own authority.
      10.   Summary Process: The notice, whether by mail, posting or
publication, shall state that any accumulations of excessive weeds or grass
growth or trash on the owner's property occurring within six (6) months from
and after the date of the notice may be summarily abated by the city council in
accordance with subsection B of this section.
      11.   Assignment Of Costs For Weeds, Grass And Trash: In the case of
grass, weeds or trash, the notice shall further state that the costs of such
abatement shall be assessed against the owner, and a lien may be imposed on the
property to secure such payment, all without further notice to the property
owner.
      12.   No Assignment Of Costs For Graffiti: Removal of graffiti by the
city pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be performed at the sole
expense of the city; except, that such costs may be assessed against the
perpetrator of the graffiti in the course of a prosecution for graffiti in the
municipal court. In removing graffiti, the city shall restore the property as
nearly as possible to the condition as it existed immediately prior to the
graffiti being placed on the property; provided, that the city and its
officers, employees or agents shall not be liable for any damages or loss of
property due to the removal of graffiti performed pursuant to the provisions of
this section.
      13.   Right Of Appeal To City Council: The notice shall also state that
the property owner has a right of appeal to the city council from any foregoing
order of the administrative officer. Such appeal may be taken by filing a
written request for appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the
administrative order is served upon the property owner. There is no prescribed
form for such request for appeal and any writing expressing the intent of the
property owner to appeal the order of the administrative officer to the city
council shall be sufficient.
      14.   Hearing Before City Council: In the event that the property owner
exercises the privilege granted by subsection A13 of this section, the
administrative officer shall take no further abatement action until a hearing
has been held by the city council to determine whether the growth of weeds or
grass, or the accumulation of trash, or the placement of graffiti constitutes a
nuisance as defined by this chapter.
      15.   Right Of Entry: Upon a finding by the city council that the
condition of the property constitutes a nuisance and that the property would
benefit from the removal of such conditions, agents of the city are thereby
granted the right of entry on the property for the mowing of weeds or grass, or
the removal of trash or graffiti, and the performance of such functions,
whether by employees or contractors of the city, shall be deemed one of the
necessary duties of governing the city.
      16.   City Or Contracted Workers: The work ordered to be performed under
this subsection may be done by employees of the city under supervision of the
director of public works or it may be let by contract to the lowest and best
bidder, after appropriate notice, in the manner for letting other contracts by
public bid.
      17.   Cost Report: Upon completion of the work ordered to be performed
under this subsection, the director of public works shall report the cost
thereof to the administrative officer.
      18.   Bill Of Costs: It shall be the duty of the administrative officer
to create or cause to be created a bill of costs to document and include all
expenses incurred by the city in the foregoing abatement and to deliver the
same to the city clerk. Such report shall be itemized as to each tract as
follows: labor, machinery rental or depreciation, fuel and supplies, cost of
notice and other costs.
      19.   Miscellaneous Costs: The city clerk shall add any other costs
related to the abatement that are not included in the bill of costs presented
by the administrative officer.
      20.   Demand For Payment: In the case of cutting or mowing of grass or
weeds, or the removal of trash, the administrative officer shall forward by
mail to the property owner a statement of such actual costs and a demand for
payment. The cost to the property owner for the cleaning and/or mowing shall
not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment required.
This subsection A20 shall not apply to the removal of graffiti.
      21.   Levy Of Lien: If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from
the date of the mailing of the statement, then, within the next sixty (60)
days, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the
costs to the county treasurer, and the same shall be levied on the property and
collected by the county treasurer in the same manner and coequal with the lien
of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and
superior to all other titles and liens against such property. A corresponding
notice of lien shall be filed of record with the county clerk describing the
property, the work performed by the city, the costs and stating that the city
claims a lien on the property for such cleaning or mowing costs.
      22.   Continuing Lien: Until fully paid, the costs and the interest
thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner from and after
the date the cost is certified to the county treasurer. In addition, such costs
and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the
costs are certified to the county treasurer, and such lien shall continue until
such costs shall be fully paid.
      23.   Service Of Notice Of Lien: The property owner shall be served
notice by the city attorney of such property owner's opportunity to satisfy the
lien prior to the commencement of foreclosure proceedings. This notice shall be
served by delivery in hand to such property owner if he or she can be found or,
in case he or she cannot be found, then by leaving a copy with some occupant on
the premises above the age of fourteen (14) years, or by posting a copy on the
door or other convenient or conspicuous place on the premises, or by
publication, as defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102, one time not
less than ten (10) days prior to any further action by the administrative
officer. In any case, where personal delivery to the property owner is not
possible, any form of alternate delivery shall also be supplemented by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      24.   Release Of Lien: If the property owner satisfies the lien, a
release of lien shall be filed of record. Upon receiving sufficient payment to
satisfy the lien, the city clerk shall forward to the county treasurer a notice
of such payment and directing discharge of the lien.
      25.   Right To Foreclose: If the costs and interest thereon remain
unpaid, the foregoing lien may be enforced by foreclosure against the subject
property in the same manner as other liens. In the event the city manager or
his/her designee determines to proceed with foreclosure, the city attorney
shall ensure that the city observes all lawful requirements, including
publication of notice, to afford the property owner such rights of due process
as he or she would enjoy in the foreclosure of a tax lien.
      26.   Liability For Civil Damages: The fact that the city has abated and
removed the nuisances of excessive grass or weeds or the accumulation of trash,
or may have commenced foreclosure proceedings, shall not excuse the party
responsible for the nuisance condition from any civil damages to person or
property that may have been caused by the nuisance condition prior to
abatement. The city, or any private person in the case of a private nuisance,
may bring a civil action to recover such damages in the Tulsa district court.
(Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
      27.   Misdemeanor Charges: Notwithstanding the execution of abatement
proceedings and/or foreclosure of the subsequent lien and/or a civil action for
damages, the owners of property or persons otherwise in possession or control
of property located within the city limits allowing weeds to grow or stand or
trash to accumulate upon the premises may be charged with a misdemeanor in the
municipal court and shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code, each day being a separate offense.
      28.   Prosecution For Graffiti: Graffiti may be regarded as a subset of
vandalism or malicious mischief, meaning the gratuitous, deliberate and
malicious defacement or destruction of private or public property not belonging
to the person committing those acts. As such, the finding of graffiti as a
nuisance does not preclude or mitigate the possibility of criminal prosecution
for vandalism. Any person violating the provisions of this subsection A28
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code, each day being a separate offense, and/or reimbursement
of the costs incurred by the city for removal of the graffiti. (Ord. 646, 3-21-
2011; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   If notice is given to a property owner ordering the property within the
municipal limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed
in accordance with the procedures provided in subsection A of this section, any
subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the
property occurring within a six (6) month period may be declared to be a
nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the
property owner. At the time of each such summary abatement, the administrative
officer shall notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof.
The notice shall state that the property owner may request a hearing with the
city council within ten (10) days after the date of mailing the notice. The
notice and hearing shall be as provided in subsection A of this section. Unless
otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be
determined and collected as provided in subsection A of this section. This
subsection shall not apply if the records of the county clerk show that the
property was transferred after notice was given pursuant to subsection A of
this section.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural purposes or to railroad property under the
jurisdiction of the Oklahoma corporation commission; provided, that the
administrative officer may cause the removal of weeds or trash from property
zoned and used for agricultural purposes pursuant to the provisions of this
section if, but only if, such weeds or trash pose a hazard to traffic and are
located in or within ten (10) yards of a public right of way at one or more
intersections. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
6-5-10-3: DILAPIDATED, UNSECURED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   The city council may cause dilapidated buildings or other structures
found on property located within the city limits to be demolished, torn down
and removed in accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   Nuisance Declared: Dilapidated buildings and structures are
categorically declared to be a nuisance.
      2.   Administrative Officer: The city has designated by this chapter the
city's code enforcement officer to function as the city's administrative
officer to carry out the duties of the city council in this subsection. Unless
expressly stated otherwise, those functions assigned to the city council have
been delegated to the administrative officer.
      3.   Hearing Required: A hearing shall be held by the city council to
determine if the property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the
health, safety, or welfare of the general public and the community, or if the
property creates a fire hazard which is dangerous to other property. A
declaration that any given building or structure meets these criteria shall be
deemed a declaration that such building or structure is a nuisance.
      4.   Notice Required: At least ten (10) days prior to the city council
meeting at which the hearing described in subsection A3 of this section is
scheduled, notice that a building or structure is to be considered a nuisance
at such meeting shall be given to the owner of the property.
      5.   Service Of Notice: A copy of the notice shall be posted on the
property to be affected. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by
mail to the property owner at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls
in the office of the county treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to
any mortgage holder as shown by the records in the office of the county clerk
to the last known address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to
any property owner or mortgage holder, the administrative officer shall obtain
a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the
date of mailing and the name and address of the recipient. If neither the
property owner nor mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property, or by publication, as defined in
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102, at least once not fewer than ten (10) days
prior to any hearing or action by the city council or administrative officer.
In any case, where personal delivery to the property owner is not possible, any
form of alternate delivery shall also be supplemented by certified mail, return
receipt requested.
      6.   Abatement Order: Pursuant to a finding by the city council at the
hearing described in subsection A3 of this section that the condition of the
property constitutes a nuisance and that the property shall be subject to
removal of such conditions, the city council may order the dilapidated building
to be torn down and removed.
      7.   Time Schedule: The city council shall fix reasonable dates for the
commencement and completion of removal and tearing down of the dilapidated
building or structure; provided, that such removal and tearing down by the city
may not commence sooner than thirty (30) days following the date that notice of
the order of the city council is filed with the county clerk as provided in
subsection A8 of this section.
      8.   Filing Of Lien: Following the rendering of the order by the city
council, the city clerk shall immediately file a notice of dilapidation and
lien with the county clerk describing the property, the findings of the city
council at the hearing and stating that the city claims a lien on the property
for the destruction and removal costs and that such costs are the personal
obligation of the property owner from and after the date of filing of the
notice of dilapidation.
      9.   Right Of Entry And Demolition: After the lapse of thirty (30) days
from filing of the notice of dilapidation, agents of the city shall possess the
right of entry onto the property for the performance of the removal and tearing
down of the dilapidated building or structure as a necessary governmental
function of the city, unless such removal and tearing down has been commenced
by the property owner and is proceeding toward completion within the dates
fixed by the order of the city council.
      10.   Indemnification: Officers, employees or agents of the city shall
not be liable for any damages or loss of property due to the removal of
dilapidated buildings performed pursuant to the provisions of this section or
as otherwise prescribed by law.
      11.   Appeal To Court: Any action by the property owner, mortgage holder
or other interested party to challenge the order of the city council shall be
filed within thirty (30) business days from the date that notice of the order
is filed with the county clerk or shall be forever barred.
      12.   Assessment Of Costs: The administrative officer shall determine the
actual cost of the removal and tearing down of dilapidated buildings and any
other expenses that may be necessary in conjunction with such removal and
tearing down, to include, without limitation, the costs of boarding and
securing any unsecured building, notice and mailing.
      13.   Demand For Payment: The administrative officer shall forward a
statement of the actual costs attributable to the dismantling and removal of
the buildings and a demand for payment of such costs, by mail, to the property
owner. In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any mortgage
holder at the address provided in subsection A5 of this section.
      14.    Service Of Demand; Receipt Of Mailing: At the time of mailing of
the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage holder, the
administrative officer shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the recipient.
      15.   City Removal Or Private Contract: If the city removes or tears down
any dilapidated buildings, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the
actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment required for the
dismantling and removal of the dilapidated buildings. If the removal and
tearing down of dilapidated buildings is done on a private contract basis, the
contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
      16.   Release Of Lien: If payment of the foregoing costs, with applicable
interest, is made in full to the city clerk for costs incurred, the city clerk
shall file a release of lien with the county clerk.
      17.   Tax Levy: If payment of the costs attributable to the removal and
tearing down of dilapidated buildings is not made within six (6) months from
the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such property, the
city clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the
county treasurer. The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by
the county treasurer in the same manner as other taxes authorized by law.
      18.   Continuing Lien: Until finally paid, the costs and the interest
thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner from and after
the date of the notice of dilapidation and lien is filed with the county clerk.
In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the county clerk.
The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes
and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all other titles and
liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the cost is fully
paid.
      19.   Civil Action: If the county treasurer is unable to collect the
assessment, the city may pursue a civil remedy for collection of the amount
owing and interest thereon, including either or both of an action in personam
against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against
the property.
      20.   Discharge Of Lien: Upon receiving payment, the city clerk shall
forward to the county treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct
discharge of the lien.
      21.   Securing Of Building: After a building has been declared
dilapidated by the city council, and before the commencement of the tearing
down and removal of such dilapidated building, the administrative officer may
authorize that any unsecured building be boarded and secured for the purposes
of making such building less available for transient occupation, decreasing
fire hazard created by such building, or decreasing the hazard that such
building would constitute an attractive nuisance to children.
      22.   Trash Or Weeds: The administrative officer is further authorized to
cause the premises on which a dilapidated or unsecured building is located to
be cleaned of trash and weeds in accordance with section
6-5-10-2 of this chapter.
      23.   Summary Abatement: If the administrative officer causes a building
or structure within the city limits to be boarded and secured pursuant to an
order of abatement by the city council, any subsequent need for boarding and
securing within a six (6) month period, and prior to removal and tearing down
of such building or structure, constitutes a public nuisance and may be
summarily boarded and secured without further notice to the property owner or
mortgage holder.
      24.   Unsecured Building: The city council may determine that a building
is unsecured and order that such building be boarded and secured in the same
manner as provided in this section for dilapidated buildings and structures
even if such building or structure has not been declared to be dilapidated.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural purposes.
   C.   If the department of environmental quality notifies the city in writing
that certain vacant property presents an extraordinary environmental hazard to
public health and safety, the city council is authorized to and shall enact
special ordinances restricting occupancy and use of the vacant buildings,
vacant structures or land as necessary to protect against the extraordinary
environmental hazard. This includes, but is not limited to, the authority to
restrict occupancy or use by classes of persons who may be especially
vulnerable to the environmental hazard. The city council is further authorized
to restrict occupancy or use, by children or other especially vulnerable
classes of persons, of property in areas or at locations with contamination by
lead or other hazardous substances to such a degree that the normal health and
welfare of members of the class are at significant risk. (Ord. 646, 3-21-2011)
6-5-10-4: EXTRAORDINARY ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Summary Abatement: Some nuisances may be of such nature as to
constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals,
or welfare of one or more persons or of the public generally; an attractive
nuisance to children; or implicate a crime under other ordinance or statute. It
is recognized that emergency circumstances may be such as to justify, and even
to require, the city manager or other appropriate officer or agency of the city
government to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such
nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate action can
be taken toward such abatement in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Right Of Entry: Upon sworn affidavit and probable cause being shown
that a nuisance exists that constitutes such a grave and immediate danger to
the peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of one or more persons or of the
public generally; an attractive nuisance to children; or implicate a crime
under other ordinance or statute, the judge of the municipal court may issue a
search warrant authorizing the chief of police, chief of the fire department,
fire marshal, building inspector, electrical inspector, code enforcement
officer, city manager or any person acting under orders from any of the named
officers, to enter into and upon, and examine at any and all times, all
buildings, lots and places of all description within the corporate limits of
the city for the purpose of ascertaining the condition thereof. Such named
officers or their designees shall have, and they are vested with, the power,
jurisdiction and authority to give all such direction and adopt all such
measures for rectifying or correcting any condition which may be a nuisance
within the scope of this subsection prior to the institution of proceedings for
the abatement, removal or prevention of same. Where obtaining such a warrant is
impossible or impractical, such officers may proceed as described in this
subsection in the absence of a warrant, but only with prior authorization from
the city manager, or his designee, in consultation with legal counsel. In such
event, the judge of the municipal court may find probable cause post facto. So
long as officers of the city are acting in good faith and within the scope of
their duties under this subsection, they shall be indemnified and held harmless
from damages to person or property resulting from such entry. Where the
condition is voluntarily removed, abated or prevented by the property owner,
whether so directed by city officials or otherwise, no formal proceedings for
abatement, prevention or removal of same shall be necessary.
   C.   District Court Action: In cases where it is deemed impractical
summarily to abate any nuisance described in this section, the city may bring
suit in the district court of the county and it is hereby made the duty of the
city council, by the adoption of a resolution either prior to or, under
emergent circumstances in subsequent endorsement of, bringing such suit for the
purpose of abating any such nuisance. The district court shall have
jurisdiction of any such case and power to adjudge and determine any action
brought under the provisions hereof, and where it is adjudged that any such
nuisance exists or is maintained and should be abated, such court shall have
the power and authority, either by and through a commissioner appointed by such
court, or otherwise, to cause such nuisance to be abated and to assess all the
costs thereof, including the costs of suit, against the property on which such
nuisance existed or is maintained, and to declare such costs a judgment against
said property and order and direct the sale of said property for the purpose of
satisfying said judgment and shall cause the same to be sold and proceeds
thereof applied to the payment of the costs of abating any such nuisance. (Ord.
646, 3-21-2011)
ARTICLE A. DISMANTLED, JUNKED, ABANDONED, UNSERVICEABLE OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Definitions
6-5A-2: Abandonment Prohibited
6-5A-3: Nuisance Declared
6-5A-4: Duty To Abate; Notice Requirements
6-5A-5: Abatement By City
6-5A-6: Impoundment Procedure
6-5A-7: Regaining Possession
6-5A-8: Disposition Of Unclaimed Vehicle
6-5A-9: Violation; Penalty
6-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
DISMANTLED, JUNKED, ABANDONED, UNSERVICEABLE OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES: Includes
the major parts thereof including bodies, engine transmissions, frames and rear
ends.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property within the corporate limits of the city
which is not "public property" as defined in this section.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any property owned or controlled by the city, the state of
Oklahoma, or the United States government within the city limits, and shall
include all streets and highways.
VEHICLE: Any machine intended for mobile transport of persons or things that is
propelled by other than human muscle and shall include, without limitation, any
automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, wagon, or self-
propelled farm or construction equipment. (2002 Code § 8.08.010; amd. 2013
Code)
6-5A-2: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, store, keep, or park, or permit
to be deposited, stored, kept or parked, upon public or private property, in
public view, a dismantled, unserviceable, inoperable, junked or abandoned
vehicle, or any vehicle legally or physically incapable of being operated, for
a period exceeding forty eight (48) hours, unless such vehicle, and all parts
thereof, are completely enclosed within a building, or stored in connection
with a business lawfully established pursuant to the zoning ordinances of the
city, or stored on property lawfully designated under the zoning ordinances of
the city as a place where such vehicles may be stored. (2002 Code § 8.08.020;
amd. 2013 Code)
6-5A-3: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any depositing, storing, keeping or parking of one or more vehicles, or parts
thereof, as prohibited by section
6-5A-2 of this article, shall constitute a nuisance detrimental to the health,
safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the city and shall be subject to
abatement procedures set out in this article. (2002 Code § 8.08.030; amd. 2013
Code)
6-5A-4: DUTY TO ABATE; NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the owner or person in control of a vehicle
described in section
6-5A-2 of this article, or the parts thereof, and/or the owner of the private
property, lessee or person in possession or control of the property upon which
such vehicle is located to cause to be removed or remove the vehicle from such
property, or have the vehicle housed in a building where it will not be visible
from the street or other private property. Such removal or enclosure shall be
made within ten (10) days from serving of notice by citation or by posting. The
ten (10) day time limit may be extended by the chief of police in the case of
verified hardship. In the event the owner of such vehicle or the owner of the
property where the vehicle is located cannot be found with reasonable
diligence, or if the vehicle is in a public right of way, the vehicle may be
removed at the direction of the chief of police after placing the ten (10) day
notice on the vehicle, or may be removed immediately if the chief of police
deems removal necessary for driving safety.
   B.   The chief of police, or any officer of that department he or she may
assign, upon complaint of any citizen or on the officer's own volition, shall
cite the owner, if known, or cause notice to be posted on such abandoned,
junked, unserviceable, inoperable, or dismantled vehicle, that the vehicle is a
nuisance and shall be removed within ten (10) days as required in subsection A
of this section. (2002 Code § 8.08.030; amd. 2013 Code)
6-5A-5: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
Upon failure of the owner or person in control of the vehicle or vehicles or
the owner, lessee, or person in control of the property upon which the vehicle
or vehicles may be located to remove the vehicle or place it in an enclosed
building within ten (10) days from serving of notice by citation or by posting,
the chief of police shall promptly cause the vehicle and/or its parts to be
removed and stored in a proper place. (2002 Code § 8.08.040; amd. 2013 Code)
6-5A-6: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Any vehicle deposited, stored, kept, parked, or abandoned in violation
of the provisions of this article shall be removed from the place the same is
illegally parked, left or abandoned to an appropriate place to be stored until
claimed by owner or person having possession thereof. A charge shall be made
for the removal of such vehicle in a sum not to exceed that established by the
city council. (2002 Code § 10.56.030; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Any officer who has directed the impoundment of any vehicle shall,
within seventy two (72) hours of the impoundment, notify the state department
of public safety of such impoundment. The notice of impoundment shall contain
the name and address of the owner, if known, the make, model, vehicle
identification number, registration number, date stored, place stored and the
estimated value of the vehicle as determined by the officer. Upon receipt of
such notice of impoundment, the state department of public safety shall, within
seventy two (72) hours, request the Oklahoma tax commission, or other
appropriate motor license agent, to furnish the name and address of the owner
of and any lienholder on the vehicle and shall, within three (3) days from
receipt of the requested information, send a notice to the owner and any
lienholder by regular mail, postage prepaid, at the addresses furnished by the
tax commission or motor license agent of the location of the vehicle. This
subsection shall not be construed to create any civil liability upon the state,
any agency of the state or employee thereof for failure to provide such notice
to the owner or lienholder. (2013 Code)
6-5A-7: REGAINING POSSESSION:
The owner or person in control of any vehicle or vehicles so removed may regain
possession thereof by making application to the chief of police within thirty
(30) days after its removal and upon payment to the city of all reasonable
costs of removal and storage which shall have accrued while the vehicle has
been impounded. (2002 Code § 8.08.050; amd. 2013 Code)
6-5A-8: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE:
If any person, firm or corporation owning or having possession of any vehicle
which is seized and moved under the provisions of this article fails to claim
the vehicle within thirty (30) days from the date the same is seized and
removed, and fails to pay the charges imposed therefor, the city is empowered
to sell such vehicle at public auction, after advertising the same, as provided
in the foreclosure of liens for repair and storage of vehicles under the
statutes of the state of Oklahoma. (2002 Code § 10.56.040; amd. 2013 Code)
6-5A-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation, or partnership required by the provisions of
this article to remove any dismantled, junked, unserviceable, inoperable, or
abandoned vehicle or vehicles, who shall fail to do so in compliance with
notice as provided in this article, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an
offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (2002 Code § 8.08.060; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Zoning Regulations To Prevail
6-6-3: Exemptions From Provisions
6-6-4: Enforcement Officials
6-6-5: Violation; Penalties
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section except in those cases where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat, rabbit,
chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or any other species of animal or fowl.
AT LARGE: Refers to any animal that is not on premises owned by, under the
control of, or occupied by its owner, unless it is otherwise under restraint by
a competent person by means of leash or otherwise.
CONFINED ON THE PREMISES: An animal is securely and physically confined and
restrained on and within premises owned by, under the control of, or occupied
by its owner by means of walls or fences, or by rope, chain, leash or other
device, of such strength and size as physically to prevent the animal from
leaving the premises.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Either a domestic or wild animal that has bitten, or has
attacked with the apparent intent to bite, any human being or any domestic
animal belonging to a person other than the owner of the dangerous animal,
without undue provocation, and which has been so designated by the municipal
court, other lawful authority or the animal control officer, as further
provided by section
6-6A-8 of this chapter. The term also means a wild animal with a known
disposition to attack human beings or other animals or with a natural
fierceness or mischief that may lead it to attack human beings or other animals
without provocation, whether or not so designated by the court or by the animal
control officer.
DOMESTIC ANIMALS: Those that are naturally tame and gentle or that, by long
association with humans, have become thoroughly domesticated and are in such a
state of subjection to the will of humans that, as a general course, they no
longer possess the disposition or inclination to escape or inflict injury upon
humans. Examples include dogs, cats, horses, oxen and cattle.
HOBBY CHICKENS: Means and includes only female chickens raised for
noncommercial purposes, more specifically, the gathering of eggs for personal
use.
HOBBYIST: A person who is granted an exemption permit, as authorized by this
chapter, to own and keep at a single- family dwelling a number of dogs and/or
cats that would otherwise constitute an offense under this chapter; provided,
that such animals are owned and kept for the purpose of engaging in a
recognized sport, rescue activity, performance or show; provided further, that
no such purpose shall be in violation of any other provision of this chapter,
including, without limitation, all requirements for vaccination and licensure
and all prohibitions against fighting or comparable activity.
KENNEL: Any facility, other than an authorized federal, state or municipal
facility, veterinary hospital or research facility, that is operated
commercially where four (4) or more dogs beyond the age of six (6) months are
kept for the purpose of boarding, sheltering, grooming, breeding and/or
training with the intent to sell or donate for a period of more than sixty (60)
days. This does not include a private residence and shall not be read to permit
a private residence to exceed the limitation on animal ownership set forth in
this chapter.
KENNEL PROPRIETOR: A person who operates a kennel, whether for pleasure or
profit and whether classified as personal or commercial in nature.
LIVESTOCK: Any cattle, bison or other animal of the bovine species; any swine;
any sheep or goat; any horse or other animal of the Equidae family; chickens;
domesticated rabbits or other animals commonly associated with farming, dairy
or ranching operations.
MINIATURE PIG: A pig that, at maturity, is less than twenty two inches (22")
high at the shoulder, is less than thirty two inches (32") long; weighs less
than one hundred twenty five (125) pounds; and is registered with the North
American Pot-Bellied Pig Association.
NUISANCE ANIMAL: Any dog, cat or other animal which, by barking, howling,
whining or otherwise in any manner, disturbs the peace and quiet of any person
other than the animal's owner, as further provided by section
6-6A-7 of this chapter.
OWNER: Any person owning, harboring or otherwise keeping an animal, except a
kennel proprietor, whether or not such animal is registered to such person. The
occupant of any premises on which a domesticated animal remains, or to which it
customarily returns, for a period of ten (10) days or more, shall be deemed to
be harboring or keeping the animal, whether or not such occupant is licensed or
otherwise identified as such.
PERSON: Any living human being, estate, association, trust or any legally
fictitious person, such as a sole proprietor, corporation, limited liability
company or other entity.
SANITARY: A condition of sufficiently good order and cleanliness to effectively
preclude the probability of disease transmission.
SWINE: Any hog, pig, boar or other animal of the Suidae family, except a
miniature pig that has been licensed as provided by this chapter.
UNDER LEASH: Refers to an animal that is securely held, restrained and confined
by its owner or other person designated by its owner, by means of a strap,
chain, rope, cord or other device not exceeding eight feet (8') in length, and
in such manner as to prevent the animal from attacking any person.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: A dangerous animal, as further provided by section
6-6A-9 of this chapter, that has bitten, or has attacked with the apparent
intent to bite, any human being or any domestic animal belonging to a person
other than the owner of the dangerous animal without undue provocation for a
second or more time. A vicious animal may be subject to impoundment, adoption
outside the city limits or euthanasia, as determined to be in the public
interest by the municipal court, other lawful authority or the animal control
officer, and its owner may be subject to civil penalties if such dangerous
animal was at large at the time of such second or more incident.
WILD ANIMALS: Those that possess an erratic or violent nature or disposition so
as to require confinement and subjugation to avoid escape and/or injury to
humans. Examples include bees, feral hogs, monkeys and rats. (Ord. 641, 10-25-
2010; amd. Ord. 657, 3-5-2012)
6-6-2: ZONING REGULATIONS TO PREVAIL:
In case of any conflict between this chapter and the current or any future
zoning ordinance, the provision(s) of the zoning ordinance shall control and
shall supersede the provision(s) of this chapter. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter expressly do not apply to laboratories, rescue
services, pet stores and veterinarian hospitals except to the extent made
applicable by ordinances pertaining to the licensure of businesses within the
city. (Ord. 657, 3-5-2012)
6-6-4: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Designated:
      1.   The police department shall be responsible for the enforcement of
all provisions of this chapter and all matters related to the keeping and
control of animals.
      2.   The police department shall designate one or more of its employees
as the animal control officer(s).
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The animal control officer is authorized to pick up and impound all
animals that are in violation of any provision of this chapter and/or cite the
owner of such animal for any corresponding violation.
      2.   The animal control officer shall impound all animals lawfully
detained or captured and shall provide suitable and necessary sustenance and
water, and shall otherwise treat them in a humane manner.
      3.   The animal control officer shall not release an impounded animal to
its owner or any person until all impoundment fees and any related charges are
paid in full. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6-5: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or who violates
or refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by the animal
control officer or other lawful authority pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable by as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. Each day upon which any violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   B.   There shall be assessed against any animal owner a sixty dollar
($60.00) cost of capture for apprehending any animal at large. There shall also
be assessed a five dollar ($5.00) per day poundage fee against any owner whose
animal is apprehended as an animal at large. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010; amd. 2013
Code)
ARTICLE A. GENERAL ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-6A-1: Number Of Animals
6-6A-2: Animals At Large
6-6A-3: Turning Animals At Large
6-6A-4: Pasturing In Public
6-6A-5: Livestock
6-6A-6: Hobby Chickens
6-6A-7: Nuisance Animals
6-6A-8: Dangerous Animals
6-6A-9: Vicious Animals
6-6A-10: Houses And Premises
6-6A-11: Diseased, Injured, Dead Animals
6-6A-12: Treatment Of Animals
6-6A-13: Itinerant Peddling Of Animals Prohibited
6-6A-14: Additional Prohibitions
6-6A-15: Hobbyist Exemption Permit
6-6A-16: Kennel Proprietors
6-6A-1: NUMBER OF ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person, other than a properly licensed kennel
proprietor, to keep or maintain or permit to be kept or maintained any
combination of more than three (3) otherwise permitted animals per household.
(Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6A-2: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
No owner shall permit any animal owned, harbored or kept by such person to be
at large at any time within the city. Failure of any owner to prevent any
animal from running or being "at large", as defined in this chapter, whether
such animal is licensed or unlicensed, is an offense under this chapter.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, it shall be permissible for a dog to be
let off the premises of its owner only when under leash; and it shall be
permissible for a police dog not to be under leash or obediently at heel while
being utilized as a police dog in the performance of police duty when
accompanied by a police officer. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6A-3: TURNING ANIMALS AT LARGE:
It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined so as to turn the animal at large, or in any other manner to turn an
animal at large. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6A-4: PASTURING IN PUBLIC:
It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other federal, state, city or other public property, on
any railroad right of way, or on any private property without the consent of
the person owning or controlling such property. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6A-5: LIVESTOCK:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section and section
6-6A-6 of this article, it is unlawful for any person to keep livestock within
the city limits other than in an enclosure awaiting immediate transportation
outside the city.
   B.   One cow, horse, Shetland pony, mule or goat may be kept in any pen,
lot, corral or similar enclosure of not less than one acre per such animal, up
to a maximum of two (2) such animals within the city; provided, that:
      1.   The number limitation shall not apply to agricultural districts in
the city where farming, dairy and ranching operations are allowed uses by
right. Livestock maintained in an agricultural district shall be subject to the
enclosure and space provisions of this section and all other laws or
regulations applicable to agricultural operations.
      2.   The owner or person in charge of such animal(s) shall provide fences
or barriers of such height and sufficient strength as may be necessary to
prevent the escape of such animal(s) from such pen, lot, corral or other
enclosure.
      3.   The owner or person in charge of the premises upon which an animal
is permitted to be kept by the provisions of this section, and which is penned
or confined thereon, must maintain such premises in a sanitary condition not
offensive or dangerous to the public, and must clean or cause to be cleaned
each day the premises, and remove and dispose of all trash, refuse, rubbish and
animal excrement, following each day an animal is kept, penned or contained in
or upon such premises.
      4.   No person shall allow such an animal to produce noise loud enough to
disturb the peace of persons of reasonable sensitivity, and it is hereby
declared a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for any person to allow such
nuisance to exist. (Ord. 657, 3-5-2012)
      5.   All persons intending to keep livestock pursuant to this section
shall register them with the animal control officer on a form to be provided by
the police department prior to acquiring the livestock. The registration
process shall include an inspection of the premises to ensure compliance with
this section. The fee to be charged for registration shall be established by
the city council. (Ord. 657, 3-5-2012; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   No livestock of any description shall be permitted in multi-family
housing, to include duplexes.
   D.   This section shall not be construed so as to permit the slaughter of
livestock within city limits under any circumstance, except as allowed as of
right in an agricultural zone.
   E.   Additional sanitation standards are as follows:
      1.   An approved insecticide shall be used as often as recommended by the
manufacturer and as often as needed to prevent infestation.
      2.   It is unlawful to dump or place any manure or other wastes from such
pens or enclosures in garbage cans serviced by the city, or contract haulers
authorized by the city.
      3.   Exterior limits of animal or fowl enclosures shall be at least fifty
feet (50') from any private water well.
   F.   It is unlawful for any person to tether livestock for grazing or any
other purpose on any road or street right of way within the city. (Ord. 657, 3-
5-2012)
6-6A-6: HOBBY CHICKENS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection 6-6A-5B of this article and as
permitted in accordance with this section, it is unlawful for any person to
keep livestock within the city limits other than in an enclosure awaiting
immediate transportation outside the city. This exception pertains only to
"hobby chickens" as defined in section
6-6-1 of this chapter. Roosters are expressly excluded from this exception and
are not permitted within city limits, except where permitted as of right in an
agriculture district. (Ord. 657, 3-5-2012)
   B.   All persons intending to keep hobby chickens shall register them with
the animal control officer on a form to be provided by the police department
prior to acquiring the chickens. The registration process shall include an
inspection of the premises to ensure compliance with this section. The fee to
be charged for registration shall be established by the city council. (Ord.
657, 3-5-2012; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   No hobby chickens shall be permitted in multi-family housing, to
include duplexes.
   D.   This section shall not be construed so as to permit the slaughter of
chickens within city limits under any circumstance, except as allowed as of
right in an agricultural zone.
   E.   In nonagricultural zones of the city, no more than five (5) hobby
chickens may be kept per residential lot.
   F.   No person shall allow such hobby chickens to produce noise loud enough
to disturb the peace of persons of reasonable sensitivity, and it is hereby
declared a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for any person to allow such
nuisance to exist.
   G.   Every keeper of hobby chickens shall observe the following practices:
      1.   Space:
         a.   Hobby chickens may not be kept on any parcel of land containing
less than two thousand (2,000) square feet in area. (Ord. 657, 3-5-2012)
         b.   Such hobby chickens shall be confined in an enclosure, provided
such enclosure prevents the fowl from being quartered within fifty feet (50')
of the exterior limits of a church, school, business or residence other than
the residence of the owner of the hobby chickens. (Ord. 657, 3-5-2012; amd.
2013 Code)
         c.   It is unlawful for any person to confine any such hobby chickens
unless provisions are made by such person for the proper feeding and the
furnishing of water at intervals not longer than twelve (12) hours.
      2.   Maintenance Of Enclosure:
         a.   Every keeper of hobby chickens shall confine the same in an
enclosure sufficient to prevent their running at large.
         b.   Such enclosure shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times.
         c.   An approved insecticide shall be used as often as recommended by
the manufacturer and as often as needed to prevent infestation.
         d.   No person shall impound any hobby chicken in a crate, box or
other enclosure, which crate, box or other enclosure does not permit each bird
so impounded to stand in a naturally erect position and make normal postural
adjustments.
      3.   Shelter And Drainage: Every keeper of hobby chickens shall provide
shelter or area of a size sufficient to be conducive to good sanitation
practices and shall provide adequate and sanitary drainage for the shelter or
area.
      4.   Disposal Of Litter And Droppings:
         a.   Every keeper of hobby chickens shall cause the litter and
droppings therefrom to be collected daily in a container or receptacle of such
type that, when closed, is ratproof and flytight and, after each such
collection, shall cause such container or receptacle to be kept closed.
         b.   At least twice each week, each such keeper shall cause all litter
and droppings so collected to be disposed of in a way as not to permit the
presence of fly larvae.
      5.   Storage Of Feed: Every keeper of hobby chickens shall cause all feed
provided therefor to be stored and kept in a ratproof, flytight building, box,
container or receptacle.
      6.   Inspection: The premises where hobby chickens are kept shall be
subject to inspection by the animal control officer at any reasonable hour of
the day. (Ord. 657, 3-5-2012)
6-6A-7: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   Nuisance Conditions: It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor
within the city any "nuisance animal", as defined in section
6-6-1 of this chapter. Nuisance animal includes, without limitation, any dog,
cat or other animal that:
      1.   Habitually barks, howls, wails, or emits or utters sounds or loud
and disturbing noises which can be heard beyond the premises of the owner for a
sustained continuous period of ten (10) minutes or a cumulative period of
fifteen (15) minutes in any hour of the day or night or which otherwise cause
serious annoyance and disturb the peace or quietude of any person or persons,
other than the owner, within the vicinity of the place where same is being kept
or to the surrounding neighborhood;
      2.   Scratches or digs into any flowerbed, garden, tilled soil, shrubbery
or small plants and, in so doing, injures the same;
      3.   Habitually prowls around or over any premises not the property of
its owner, to the annoyance of the owner or occupant of such premises;
      4.   Overturns any garbage can or other vessel for waste products, or
scatters the contents of same;
      5.   Chases or kills any chicken or other domestic fowl;
      6.   Chases vehicles; or
      7.   Habitually runs at large.
   B.   Enforcement: It is the duty of the animal control officer or person
designated by him or her, upon being notified that any person has filed a
verified complaint alleging that an animal is a nuisance within the meaning of
this section, and upon concurrence by such authority that such animal is a
nuisance, to seize and impound the animal therein described until the soonest
available session of the municipal court. In the discretion of the animal
control officer, if there are circumstances such that the animal control
officer reasonably concludes that the animal presents no risk of harm to
others, it may be released prior to such court date. If the municipal judge
shall find that no nuisance exists, he or she shall order that the animal be
surrendered to the owner. If the municipal judge shall find that the animal is
a nuisance, he or she shall order the owner of the animal to give a good and
sufficient bond in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00), to be received
by the city clerk upon condition that such owner shall abate and prevent such
nuisance from recurrence. The municipal judge shall order the return of the
animal to its owner upon payment of such bond, written and signed acceptance of
such conditions and upon payment of all actual costs and poundage fees
specified in this chapter. No nuisance animal shall be returned to the owner if
the same is a vicious animal or in any event until the animal is registered and
licensed as required by this chapter. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6A-8: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within
the city any "dangerous animal", as defined in section
6-6-1 of this chapter, except in confinement or otherwise under the complete
control and domination of the owner and in compliance with conditions set forth
in this section.
   B.   Impoundment And Redemption: A dangerous animal may be subject to
impoundment and release to its owner, or to a person other than its owner, only
upon satisfaction of the following conditions: If the municipal judge shall
find that an animal is a dangerous animal, he or she shall order the owner of
the animal to give a good and sufficient bond in the amount of one hundred
dollars ($100.00), to be received by the city clerk upon condition that such
owner shall ensure that such animal is kept in confinement or otherwise under
the complete control and domination of the owner at all times. Any enclosure
must be posted in such a way as to clearly warn the public of the presence of a
dangerous animal. The owner shall also be required to present proof of
homeowners' liability insurance in the amount of at least fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00). The municipal judge shall order the return of the animal
to its owner upon payment of such bond, written and signed acceptance of such
conditions and payment of the poundage fees specified in this chapter. No
dangerous animal shall be returned to the owner if the same is a vicious animal
or in any event until the animal is registered and licensed as required by this
chapter.
   C.   Destruction Authorized: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, any person may kill an animal in self-defense or in defense of another
when the animal, without undue provocation, bites or attacks or attempts to
bite or attack either person in such manner that an ordinarily prudent person
would be led to believe that the person toward whom the animal's conduct is
directed is about to be bitten or otherwise physically harmed. (Ord. 641, 10-
25-2010; amd. 2013 Code)
6-6A-9: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited; Penalty: It is unlawful, under any circumstance, for any
person to keep or harbor within the city any "vicious animal", as defined in
section
6-6-1 of this chapter. Any person who is the owner of an animal determined to
be a vicious animal shall be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
in the event that the animal was at large during the course of events leading
to the determination that the animal is a vicious animal.
   B.   Impoundment; Adoption Or Euthanasia; Costs: It is the duty of the
animal control officer or persons authorized by him or her to seize and impound
any animal found by him or her to be vicious and to cause proceedings to be
instituted before the municipal court against the owner of such animal for
violation of this chapter. If such seized and impounded animal shall have
bitten a human being or domestic animal not belonging to the owner of the
vicious animal two (2) or more times, or attacked a human or domestic animal
not belonging to the owner of the vicious animal two (2) or more times with
apparent intent to bite, before such seizure and impounding, then the municipal
judge shall order the animal control officer or person designated by him or her
to euthanize the vicious animal unless suitable adoption arrangements for the
animal, as provided by this chapter, may be made within three (3) days of such
order. In all cases, the owner of the vicious animal shall be liable for all
costs associated with seizure, impoundment, maintenance and euthanasia or
adoption, as applicable.
   C.   Destruction Authorized: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, any person may kill an animal in self-defense or in defense of another
when the animal, without undue provocation, bites or attacks or attempts to
bite or attack said person in such manner that an ordinarily prudent person
would be led to believe that the person toward whom the animal's conduct is
directed is about to be bitten or otherwise physically harmed. (Ord. 641, 10-
25-2010; amd. 2013 Code)
6-6A-10: HOUSES AND PREMISES:
   A.   Construction And Condition:
      1.   Every stable, dog kennel, chicken coop or other similar structure
wherein animals are kept within the city shall be constructed of such material
and in such manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times.
      2.   Every such stable, dog kennel, chicken coop or other similar
structure wherein animals are kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, devoid of rodents and vermin and free from objectionable odors.
   B.   Manure:
      1.   Every such stable, dog kennel, chicken coop or other similar
structure wherein animals are kept, if located within two hundred feet (200')
of any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail
or wholesale food store, building used for educational, religious, or hospital
purposes or residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the
premises upon which such animal is kept, shall be provided with a watertight
and flytight receptacle for manure, of such size as to hold all accumulations
of manure. The receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such
manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept
covered at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure
or refuse. No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in
the receptacle.
      2.   With respect to any such stable, dog kennel, chicken coop or other
similar structure wherein animals are kept, accumulated manure shall be hauled
outside the city in a manner which does not jeopardize the public health, or
else shall be spread evenly upon the ground and turned under at once or as soon
as the weather permits.
   C.   Location: No such stable, dog kennel, chicken coop or other similar
structure wherein animals are kept shall be maintained closer than one hundred
feet (100') to any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding
house, retail or wholesale food store, building used for educational,
religious, or hospital purposes, or residence other than that occupied by the
owner or occupant of the premises upon which such structure is kept.
   D.   Public View Of Breeding Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
establish, keep, or maintain, within the corporate limits of the city, any
stable, dog kennel, chicken coop or other similar structure wherein animals are
kept, for the purpose of breeding of animals of any kind, or in which acts of
copulation of domestic animals in public view are permitted. Each such place is
declared to be a public nuisance.
   E.   Inspections: Upon complaint of any person, the animal control officer
or other designated person shall inspect any stable, dog kennel, chicken coop
or other similar structure wherein animals are kept and may do so on his or her
own initiative. He or she may issue any such reasonable order as he or she may
deem necessary to the owner of the structure to cause the structure to be
maintained as provided by this article or in a manner so as not to constitute a
nuisance. He or she may make a complaint before the municipal court against any
person for violation of any provision of this article or of any such reasonable
order. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6A-11: DISEASED, INJURED, DEAD ANIMALS:
   A.   Diseased, Injured Animals:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to bring into the city any
animal having any contagious disease, or to allow such animal to run at large
within the city.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to sell, or to cause, allow,
or procure to be sold, any diseased or injured animal without disclosing such
disease to the prospective purchaser.
   B.   Dead Animals:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to place or throw any injured or dead
animal in or upon any street, alley or public place within the city or to bury
any dead animal within the city.
      2.   It is the duty of the owner of any dead animal, or the person in
lawful possession of the same, to arrange with a private veterinarian or other
lawful service to dispose of the same in a humane and sanitary manner.
      3.   It is the duty of the owner or person in lawful possession of such
dead animal to place the remains in a sack, box or any other appropriate
receptacle before such disposition as provided by subsection B2 of this
section.
      4.   If the dead animal is too large for the owner feasibly to place the
remains in a sack, box or other appropriate receptacle, the owner shall notify
a private veterinarian to make arrangements for removal and disposal of the
remains.
      5.   It is the duty of any person upon whose premises a dead stray animal
is found, and if said person has no knowledge of the owner or person previously
in possession of the animal, to notify the animal control officer. Such person
shall not be liable to pay any fees for removal. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6A-12: TREATMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Cruelty:
      1.   Prohibitions:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person to overdrive, overload, drive when
overloaded or overworked, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance or
water, beat, mutilate, damage or kill any animal or fail to give such animal
sufficient sustenance and water, or to cause any animal to be so overdriven,
overloaded, driven when overloaded or overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived
of necessary sustenance or water, beaten, mutilated, damaged or killed.
         b.   It is unlawful for a person wilfully and unjustifiably to poison
any animal except a noxious wild animal; or knowingly to expose poison so that
the same may be taken by such animal.
      2.   Impoundment; Citation; Conditions Of Release; Euthanasia:
         a.   The animal control officer, upon finding an animal mistreated or
abused, shall impound the animal and cause a citation to be presented to the
municipal court for a violation of this chapter. The animal shall be maintained
at the pound or, if injured or diseased, in the care of a veterinarian, until
such time as the cause of mistreatment or abuse shall be rectified. The animal
control officer may further take any of the following actions:
            (1)   Specify terms and conditions under which the owner or keeper
may be allowed to regain custody of the animal at the expense of the owner for
costs of care incurred by the city.
            (2)   Obtain a court order to take permanent custody of any animal
found neglected or cruelly treated and remove the animal from its present
location.
            (3)   Within seven (7) days of seizure, petition the Tulsa County
district court for a bond hearing to determine cost and care for the animal. If
the court finds that probable cause exists that an animal has been abused, the
court may order immediate forfeiture of the animal to an agency designated by
the court. The court may also require that the owner or keeper post a security
bond in an amount to be determined by the court to be sufficient to reimburse
all reasonable and anticipated costs incurred by the agency caring for the
animal from the date of seizure. The bond shall be placed with the agency that
took custody of the animal, and the agency shall provide the court with an
accounting of expenses incurred. When all expenses covered by the bond are
exhausted and no subsequent bond has been posted, the animal shall be
permanently forfeited to the agency.
            (4)   If the animal is returned to the person who previously owned
or had charge or custody of the animal, funds not used for the care of the
animal shall be returned to such person.
            (5)   Euthanasia of a seized animal may be determined necessary at
any time by a veterinarian licensed by the state of Oklahoma or by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
         b.   The court shall have the authority to order the owner to provide
appropriate care to the animal or make arrangements for such appropriate care
to be given. All fines, court costs and charges for animal care, along with all
requirements for vaccination, registration and tags, shall be paid in full as a
condition of release. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
      3.   Penalties:
         a.   Any person who shall wilfully or maliciously torture, destroy or
kill, or cruelly beat or injure, maim or mutilate any animal in subjugation or
captivity, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to the person or to
another, or deprive any such animal of necessary food, drink, shelter, or
veterinary care to prevent suffering; or who shall cause, procure or permit any
such animal to be so tortured, destroyed or killed, or cruelly beaten or
injured, maimed or mutilated, or deprived of necessary food, drink, shelter or
veterinary care to prevent suffering; or who shall wilfully instigate or engage
in or in any way further any act of cruelty to any animal, shall be guilty of a
felony, and any person reasonably suspected of such cruelty in the city shall
be referred to the office of the Tulsa County district attorney for possible
prosecution. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010; amd. 2013 Code)
         b.   Notwithstanding subsection A3a of this section, any person
reasonably suspected of committing any act of animal cruelty in the city, as
defined in subsection A1a or A2a of this section shall be subject to arrest and
prosecution in the city for a misdemeanor and subject to incarceration for up
to ten (10) days and/or a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   B.   Destruction Authorized:
      1.   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, any person may kill
an animal in self-defense or in defense of another when the animal, without
undue provocation, bites or attacks or attempts to bite or attack said person
in such manner that an ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that
the person toward whom the animal's conduct is directed is about to be bitten
or otherwise physically harmed.
      2.   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, any person may kill
an animal the appearance or conduct of which is such as would cause an
ordinarily prudent person to believe the animal to be afflicted with rabies and
the conduct of which is such that an ordinarily prudent person would believe
themselves to be in jeopardy of a bite or attack by such animal.
      3.   When, from any cause, it may happen that any domestic animal within
the corporate limits of the city shall be so wounded, maimed, sick, diseased or
injured as to render its recovery hopeless in the reasonable opinion of the
animal control officer, or as verified by a competent veterinarian, the animal
control officer may kill or destroy, or cause to be killed or destroyed, such
animal so injured or diseased as soon after such determination as practicable
and in such manner as in his or her judgment shall be the least painful. In the
event that the animal control officer kills or destroys such animal, he or she
will cause the carcass to be removed to such place as may be set apart for such
matter and disposed of as provided by ordinance for dead animals. In the event
that any person other than the animal control officer kills or destroys such
animal, such person will cause the carcass to be removed to such place as may
be set apart for such matter and disposed of as provided by ordinance for dead
animals.
   C.   Animal Fights: It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage
fighting between animals of any variety or for any purpose, commercial or
private; or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue or annoy another animal
except a noxious wild animal; or to keep a structure, pit or other place used
for fights between animals.
   D.   Transporting Animals In Vehicles: No person shall transport any animal
on any street, highway, alley or other public way in a motor vehicle unless the
animal is reasonably and securely enclosed in the vehicle, or reasonably and
safely secured by reasonable means subject to the control of the driver and/or
any passenger in the vehicle, cab, container, cage or other enclosing device or
confined by means of a humane tethering device sufficient to prevent the animal
from falling, being thrown or jumping from the vehicle. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6A-13: ITINERANT PEDDLING OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ITINERANT LOCATION: A nonfixed or nonpermanent business, residential,
private or public property location.
   ITINERANT PEDDLING: Engaging in the practice of selling or gifting of
animals without a kennel or other appropriate business license issued by the
city of Glenpool, regardless of location.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or
corporation to peddle, by offering for sale or gift, any type of animal from an
itinerant location within the city limits.
      2.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or
corporation to conduct the itinerant peddling, by offering for sale or gift, of
any type of animal from any location within the city limits. (Ord. 641, 10-25-
2010)
6-6A-14: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS:
In addition to the violation of any other express provision of this chapter, it
shall be an offense and a violation of this chapter, punishable as such in the
municipal court, for any owner of an animal to:
   A.   Abandon or desert any animal or to permit any animal to become a stray;
   B.   Allow any female to run at large while she is in season, whether she is
licensed or not;
   C.   Harbor, keep or have possession of any vicious animal;
   D.   Harbor, keep, or have possession of any dangerous animal, except under
conditions set forth in this article;
   E.   Harbor, keep, or have possession of any animal that is a nuisance,
except under conditions set forth in this article;
   F.   Allow any animal to be at large during the period of any epidemic of
rabies after proclamation of such epidemic;
   G.   Fail or refuse to deliver to the animal control officer or person
designated by him or her, upon demand, any unlicensed dog or cat, any dangerous
or vicious animal, any animal that is a nuisance, any animal suspected of
rabies or any animal found at large during the period of an epidemic of rabies,
or any animal, the keeping or harboring of which is otherwise declared to be an
offense;
   H.   Fail or refuse to comply with any sanitation rule or requirement set
forth or prescribed by the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance of
the city pertaining to sanitation;
   I.   Allow any animal to defecate (without the owner or such person removing
the excreta deposited) on public or private property other than that of the
owner; or
   J.   Otherwise do anything that is prohibited, or fail to do anything that
is required, by any part of this chapter. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6A-15: HOBBYIST EXEMPTION PERMIT:
   A.   Application For Permit; Issuance Or Denial; Fees:
      1.   Application for a hobbyist exemption permit shall be submitted in
writing to the animal control officer, who shall notify the applicant of
acceptance or denial within thirty (30) days from receipt of the application.
If such permit is denied, the applicant shall be informed of the reasons for
denial. If the permit is granted, the owner will be charged a fee as
established by the city council, plus any applicable costs, to obtain the
permit. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   The applicant must attest, in a signed written application, that he,
she or any entity under the control of him or her:
         a.   Is not a commercial breeder.
         b.   Is actively involved in a regionally or nationally recognized,
organized animal sport or hobby for at least one year prior to submitting the
application; such as:
            (1)   Participates in field trials using hunting dogs or
participates in hunting activities and holds a current, valid Oklahoma hunting
license; or
            (2)   Qualifies as an animal rescuer; or
            (3)   Performs in organized showmanship competitions.
         c.   Has not been convicted in the past ten (10) years of any offense
related to illegal commercial breeding, dogfighting, a nuisance offense,
cruelty to animals, a neglect offense or any violation of the Oklahoma wildlife
conservation code.
         d.   At the cost of the applicant, to be included as a cost for the
permit, a background check will be conducted to determine eligibility.
      3.   An applicant for a hobbyist exemption, in addition to the foregoing
written application, shall submit at least one of the following supporting
documents:
         a.   Certificates of training for at least two (2) training classes
dated within twenty four (24) months prior to the application; or
         b.   A show catalog identifying the applicant as an exhibitor, along
with two (2) superintendent's confirmation receipts of show, dated within
twenty four (24) months prior to the application; or
         c.   A certificate of title from a national registry for a dog or cat
owned by the applicant; or
         d.   Proof that a rescuer organization is a nonprofit animal welfare
organization incorporated in the state of Oklahoma, along with a list of all
persons authorized to serve as rescuers; or
         e.   Proof that the owner holds, or is exempt from holding, a current
valid Oklahoma hunting license.
   B.   Renewal Of Permit: A permit holder must reapply for the exemption
permit annually, at least thirty (30) days prior to expiration. Reapplication
requirements are the same as for initial application.
   C.   Additional Requirements Of Rescuer: Subject to the application
requirements of subsection B of this section, a rescuer may keep or harbor dogs
and/or cats in accordance with this section; provided, that such dogs and/or
cats are kept for no longer than ninety (90) days before either being relocated
to a permanent home or notifying the animal control officer.
   D.   Inspections:
      1.   The animal control officer will conduct at least one inspection, and
may conduct random subsequent inspections, of the housing facilities utilized
by the holders of an exemption permit prior to approval in order to confirm the
number of animals being housed there, the cleanliness of the facility and the
treatment of the animals, as well as to ensure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   If a facility housing animals under an exemption permit is found to
be in violation of any requirement for a permit, or otherwise in violation of
this chapter, the animal control officer shall remove animals from the facility
to the pound or to another agency and notify the owner that the owner has
seventy two (72) hours in which to remedy the violation. If the facility comes
into full compliance within such seventy two (72) hours, and all charges for
intermittent care are paid in full, the animals may be returned upon payment of
any impoundment fee or other applicable charges. If the violation is not
remedied within seven (7) days of the notice, the animal control officer shall
take steps necessary to present the matter to the municipal court, which shall
be authorized to designate any conditions of return.
   E.   Revocation Of Permit: A permit holder shall forfeit his or her
exemption permit if he or she is convicted of an offense, including illegal
commercial breeding, brokering dogfighting, nuisance, cruelty to animals or
violation of the Oklahoma wildlife conservation code.
   F.   Register Kept: The city clerk, or his or her designee, shall maintain a
register of qualified hobbyist exemption permit holders. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6A-16: KENNEL PROPRIETORS:
   A.   License Requirements:
      1.   Any person owning, operating or maintaining a kennel within or under
the jurisdiction of the city must first apply for and obtain a license to keep
and maintain such kennel. The issuance of a license shall be subject to any
applicable zoning conditions and to all other vaccination, registration and tag
requirements of this chapter.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to be a "kennel proprietor", as
defined in section
6-6-1 of this chapter, within the city unless such proprietor shall first pay
to the city clerk an annual license fee in an amount established by the city
council. Upon proof of proper zoning and payment of such fee, the city clerk
shall furnish to such kennel proprietor a license to engage in such business.
(Ord. 641, 10-25-2010; amd. 2013 Code)
      3.   The kennel proprietor's license fee shall be deemed to comply with
the registration, license and tag requirements of this chapter for dogs in such
kennel for only so long as they remain the property of the kennel proprietor.
   B.   Tags: It is the duty of the city clerk to furnish to each kennel
proprietor a sufficient number of tags upon each of which shall be engraved,
carved or stamped the year of the registration of such kennel and the number
under which the kennel was registered. The kennel proprietor shall tag each dog
in such kennel with one of the kennel tags in the same manner that other dogs
are tagged.
   C.   Confinement To Premises: All dogs in such kennel shall be at all times
confined on the premises of such kennel proprietor. Should any dog belonging
to, or kept by, such kennel proprietor be allowed off the premises of such
kennel proprietor, the owner or keeper thereof shall pay the same tag fee and
license fee thereon as is required by this chapter for all dogs not kept by a
kennel proprietor. Any such dog shall further be subject to all of the
provisions of this chapter, including seizure and impoundment, to the same
extent and in the same manner as any dog at large.
   D.   Sanitary Conditions: Such kennels shall be maintained at all times in a
clean and sanitary condition and shall be subject to inspection by the animal
control officer. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
ARTICLE B. DOG AND CAT LICENSING AND VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
6-6B-1: License And Vaccination Required
6-6B-2: Tag Fee; Registration Of Dog Or Cat
6-6B-3: Tag Requirements And Restrictions
6-6B-4: Register Kept
6-6B-1: LICENSE AND VACCINATION REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful to own, keep, possess, harbor or allow to remain on
premises any dog or cat over six (6) months old, unless such dog or cat has a
current license and a current vaccination against rabies as required herein.
Such animals may be granted one year immunity from such vaccination
requirement; provided, that they have a current rabies vaccination license
issued by the United States department of agriculture such as that customarily
recognized for a period of one year.
   B.   The owner of a dog or cat shall have the dog or cat vaccinated against
rabies by a veterinarian or other authorized person every calendar year before
July 1 or, in the case of a pup or kitten, once it is six (6) months old. The
person vaccinating the dog or cat shall furnish the owner a certificate of
vaccination. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6B-2: TAG FEE; REGISTRATION OF DOG OR CAT:
   A.   Charges for unaltered and spayed or neutered animals are established by
the city council as tag fees and chargeable to the owner or other person in
possession and control of any dog or cat that has been in the city more than
six (6) months, whether from birth or from being brought into the city from
outside the city.
   B.   The tag fee imposed in this section shall not apply to a dog or cat
only temporarily brought and kept within the city, nor to a dog brought within
the city to participate in a dog show, nor to a service dog when such dog is
actually being used by a disabled or otherwise dependent person to aid him or
her in going from place to place, nor to dogs being kept by a kennel proprietor
or in pet shops for sale.
   C.   The tag fee imposed in this section shall be waived with respect to
owners aged sixty five (65) years or older; provided, however, that this shall
not lessen the duty of such owners to obtain registration and a tag.
   D.   The owner shall pay the tag fee imposed pursuant to this section to the
city clerk, and obtain a tag indicating the current year, for each calendar
year that the owner possesses the animal.
   E.   Before the city clerk accepts payment of the tag fee or issues a
license for the dog or cat, the person offering the tag fee shall present to
the city clerk the certificate of a veterinarian or other person legally
authorized to immunize dogs or cats, showing that the dog or cat has been
immunized against rabies during the calendar year, that is, since the preceding
December 31.
   F.   The owner of the dog or cat shall, at the time of paying the fee,
register the dog or cat by giving the city clerk the name and address of the
owner, the name, breed, color and sex of the dog or cat and such other
reasonable information as the city clerk may request. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010;
amd. 2013 Code)
6-6B-3: TAG REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Upon registration of the dog or cat, the city clerk shall cause to be
issued a tag showing the date of issuance, date of expiration, the name and
address of the owner or the person in whose name the license is issued, and
such other reasonable information as the city clerk may deem appropriate.
   B.   The owner of the animal shall cause the tag received from the city
clerk to be affixed to the collar of the dog or cat upon which the tag fee has
been paid in such a way as to be readily visible to officers of the city and
shall cause the tag to be so worn at all times. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
   C.   In the event a tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure a replacement tag by applying to the city clerk,
presenting the original receipt and paying a replacement fee as established by
the city council. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   No person shall counterfeit, or attempt to counterfeit, any tag issued
for a dog or cat as provided in this article, or take from any dog or cat a tag
legally placed thereon, or place such tag upon a dog or cat for which the tag
was not specifically issued. Any of these actions is a punishable offense.
(Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6B-4: REGISTER KEPT:
It is the duty of the city clerk or her/his designee to keep a register of all
animal licenses in the city, pursuant to the provisions of this article, and
such register shall show the date of the issuance of each license, its date of
expiration, and the name of the owner or the person in whose name the license
is issued and shall designate the size of the dog or cat and state as nearly as
possible the age, sex, color and breed of such dog or cat. It shall further
show the date of vaccination and by whom vaccinated. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
ARTICLE C. IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION, ADOPTION
AND DISPOSITION
SECTION:
6-6C-1: Pound Established
6-6C-2: Impoundment Of Animals
6-6C-3: Redemption/Reclamation Of Impounded Animals
6-6C-4: Fees
6-6C-5: Adoption Of Impounded Animals Not Redeemed Or Reclaimed
6-6C-6: Disposition Of Unclaimed/Not Adopted Animals
6-6C-7: Records And Proceeds
6-6C-8: Prohibited Acts
6-6C-1: POUND ESTABLISHED:
A city pound is established under the jurisdiction of the police department and
the municipal court. It shall be under the immediate control of the animal
control officer or of such other person as may be officially designated. The
person in charge of the pound shall provide proper sustenance and water for all
animals impounded and shall treat them in a humane manner. (Ord. 702, 6-15-
2015)
6-6C-2: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   The animal control officer, a police officer or such other officer or
employee of the city as may be authorized by the city manager:
      1.   Shall take into custody and impound any "nuisance animal", any
"potentially dangerous dog", any "dangerous dog" or any animal running "at
large", as those terms are defined in section
6-6-1 of this chapter.
      2.   May, to the fullest extent necessary and without jeopardy to the
safety of him/herself or others, enter upon the premises of the owner of such
animal as described in subsection A1 of this section, or other public or
private premises to take such animal into custody.
      3.   If such animal cannot be apprehended with reasonable effort and
safety, may tranquilize or kill such animal as reasonably necessary and
justifiable under the circumstances, whether on private or public premises.
   B.   Any other person may take such animal into custody and deliver such
animal to the authority in charge of the pound for impoundment, provided that a
private citizen may not enter upon private premises of any other person to
effect capture of such animal.
   C.   The owner of any animal(s) that is/are taken into custody as provided
in this article, if charged with any violation of this chapter, shall be
presented to the municipal court on the earliest available docket to minimize
as much as feasible the term of such impoundment.
   D.   Any animal(s) captured and impounded as provided in this article whose
owner is not identified or whose owner is not compliant with or for any reason
not subject to the jurisdiction of the municipal court shall be dealt with in a
manner consistent with the provisions of this article.
   E.   Upon the passage of a minimum of five (5) days (120 hours) following
apprehension and impoundment of such an animal, unless the animal is being held
by the animal control officer pending the disposition of an action against the
owner or other responsible party, or upon the passage of a minimum of three (3)
days (72 hours) following adjudication of the animal's status by the municipal
court, the animal may be sold (adopted), euthanized or otherwise disposed of in
a humane manner by the animal control officer, provided the animal is not
redeemed by the owner or otherwise reclaimed by any person, all as provided in
this article. (Ord. 702, 6-15-2015)
6-6C-3: REDEMPTION/RECLAMATION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   An owner of an impounded animal or his or her agent or another
responsible party, except in the case of an animal which is the subject of a
pending action in municipal court, may redeem or reclaim the animal, prior to
its sale (adoption), removal or destruction as provided for herein, by paying
the required fees as provided in section
6-6C-4 of this article, including impoundment fees, vaccination costs if
applicable and any assessed court fines or costs, upon providing satisfactory
proof of ownership or other responsibility and meeting any other requirements
which may be prescribed in this chapter.
   B.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, when, in the judgment of
the animal control officer pursuant to provisions of this chapter, an animal
being held pending adjudication by the municipal court should be further
detained, removed outside the jurisdiction of the city or euthanized for humane
reasons, the disposition of such animal may not be determined until the status
of such animal has been adjudicated by the municipal court.
   C.   An animal confined for rabies observation or other infectious disease
may not be reclaimed until the animal control officer authorizes the release
and in no case before the observation period is over.
   D.   An animal may be reclaimed by the owner within a minimum of five (5)
days (120 hours) following apprehension and impoundment if the animal is
registered and all applicable fees are paid, the owner or responsible party is
identifiable to the satisfaction of the animal control officer and any
applicable conditions regarding vaccination, spaying or neutering and other
necessary conditions have been met.
   E.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection D of this section, in the
event an animal is being held for adjudication of its status by the municipal
court, such animal may be released within a minimum of three (3) days (72
hours) following adjudication by the municipal court, provided that all
applicable fines and court costs are paid in addition to satisfaction of the
conditions in subsection D of this section.
   F.   If an impounded animal is not spayed or neutered upon apprehension by
the animal control officer, the animal control officer will require that the
animal be spayed or neutered prior to release or reclamation at the sole
expense of the person seeking release or reclamation.
   G.   If an impounded animal is not current with vaccinations for rabies, the
animal control officer will require that the animal be vaccinated prior to
release or reclamation at the sole expense of the person seeking release or
reclamation. (Ord. 702, 6-15-2015)
6-6C-4: FEES:
   A.   The animal control officer, in conjunction with the city attorney and
the city clerk, shall determine fair and appropriate fees to be charged for
capturing, impounding, feeding, providing necessary medical care to and
otherwise tending to animals that are impounded in accordance with this
article; provided that, in no case, shall the fees exceed the actual cost to
the city. In computing the fee, a fraction of a day during which an animal is
impounded shall be deemed a full day.
   B.   Any person redeeming an animal not licensed as required by this chapter
shall pay the required registration and license tag fee to the city clerk and
present the receipt therefor to the animal control officer before the animal
may be released. If an animal has been licensed, the animal control officer
shall require sufficient evidence of the proper licensing of the animal before
releasing it.
   C.   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the required fees,
along with any applicable fines and costs owing to the municipal court, to the
court clerk and shall present his or her receipt therefor, along with proof of
vaccination and registration as otherwise required by this chapter, to the
animal control officer before the animal may be released.
   D.   The foregoing fees apply only to the redemption and reclamation of
animals impounded for violations of this chapter. Fees applicable to the
adoption of animals not otherwise redeemed or reclaimed shall be exclusively
those identified in section
6-6C-5 of this article. (Ord. 702, 6-15-2015)
6-6C-5: ADOPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS NOT REDEEMED OR RECLAIMED:
   A.   If the owner of an impounded animal cannot be identified by tag or
otherwise, or if no identified owner or other responsible party undertakes to
redeem or reclaim such animal, the animal control officer shall publish notice
that the animal may be sold (adopted), removed from the jurisdiction of the
city or euthanized upon the passage of a minimum of five (5) days (120 hours)
following impoundment or, if being held pending adjudication in the municipal
court, upon the passage of a minimum of three (3) days (72 hours) following
such adjudication.
   B.   Contents of the notice must include, at a minimum and not limited to,
the following information:
The following animal(s): [to be identified by picture, name if known, species
of animal, breed (if known) and such other descriptive features as may be
helpful to recognition by an interested party] has/have been apprehended and
impounded in the pound of the City of Glenpool, Oklahoma for (describe
offense), which is contrary to provisions of the ordinances of the City of
Glenpool. Such animals, having not been redeemed or reclaimed within the time
periods established by ordinance, have been deemed eligible for adoption by the
first qualified person to make application to the animal control officer and
pay all costs imposed on the face of the application to the animal control
officer. Qualifications for adoption, and the fees for adoption, shall be
determined in accordance with the terms of an adoption application form.
   C.   The notice shall be published as follows:
      1.   If the owner or other responsible party is known, notice may be
given in person or by certified mail to the owner or may be left at the owner's
address with a person fourteen (14) years of age or older.
      2.   Posted for public display within the lobby of the police department
and the utility billing building.
      3.   Displayed on the city website or any other public media site
operated by the city of Glenpool.
      4.   Notice must be so published for no fewer than five (5) days (120
hours) before adoption is undertaken.
   D.   Adoption sales herein provided for shall be for cash or certified funds
to the first interested party with ability to pay and who completes an adoption
application in a form to be prescribed by the city attorney and the city clerk,
as the same may be from time to time amended in ways not inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Application forms for adoption shall be submitted to the animal control
officer who shall approve or deny such application in his or her sole
discretion reasonably applied and adoptions shall be conducted by, or under the
direction of, the animal control officer.
   F.   If there is no interest in an animal offered for adoption, the animal
control officer may euthanize the animal, or have it euthanized, in a humane
manner.
   G.   The purchaser of an animal by sale (adoption) held as provided herein,
shall acquire absolute title to the animal purchased and shall be responsible
for all registration fees, neutering or spaying, vaccinations and such other
acts as may be required by this chapter.
   H.   The animal control officer shall pay to the city clerk all monies
received from the sale (adoption) of impounded animals on the day they are
received or on the immediately next day upon which the office of the city clerk
is open for business. (Ord. 702, 6-15-2015)
6-6C-6: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED/NOT ADOPTED ANIMALS:
   A.   If, in the judgment and discretion of the animal control officer or if
so adjudicated by the municipal court, any impounded animal that is not
redeemed or reclaimed by its owner or another responsible party, and is not
adopted, or for any humane reason should be removed from the jurisdiction of
the city or be destroyed, then the animal control officer may, after a minimum
of five (5) days (120 hours) after the time for reclaiming such animal has
expired, euthanize or cause the animal to be removed from the jurisdiction of
the city or euthanized and, in the case of euthanasia, cause the body thereof
to be disposed of as required by applicable law.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, if in
the judgment and discretion of the animal control officer or if so adjudicated
by the municipal court, any animal shall be deemed not eligible for redemption,
reclamation or removal from the jurisdiction because it presents an immediate
and irremediable threat to public health or safety, then the animal control
officer shall promptly euthanize or cause the animal to be euthanized and cause
the body thereof to be disposed of as required by applicable law. (Ord. 702, 6-
15-2015)
6-6C-7: RECORDS AND PROCEEDS:
It is the duty of the animal control officer to enter into a logbook to be kept
in his or her office for that purpose the description and date of the seizure
of all animals taken under the provisions of this chapter, the place where
impoundment occurred, the cause for impoundment, the name of the owner if
known, the date of any notice(s) posted, and all subsequent proceedings
relating to the disposition of the animal, including adoption and the amount
realized if adopted pursuant to this article. All fees and proceeds of sales
(adoption) collected by the animal control officer shall be paid to the city
clerk. (Ord. 702, 6-15-2015)
6-6C-8: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No unauthorized person shall:
   A.   Break or attempt to break open the pound, or take out or release any
animal therefrom.
   B.   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the city any
animal taken into custody as provided by this chapter.
   C.   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his or her duties relating to the taking into custody and
impounding of animals as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 702, 6-15-2015)
ARTICLE D. RABIES CONTROL
SECTION:
6-6D-1: Confinement Of Animals
6-6D-2: Animal Bites; Quarantine
6-6D-3: Death Of Diagnosed Animal; Support Information
6-6D-4: Rabies Crisis
6-6D-5: Surrender Of Rabies Suspects
6-6D-6: Killing Rabid Animals
6-6D-1: CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS:
When the animal control officer, or person designated by him or her, determines
and certifies that a dog, a cat or other animal in the city or within five (5)
miles of the city is or was infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies
threatens the city, the council, by resolution, may order all dogs to be
confined and, if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined during a period of
time to be determined by the council. Such resolution or an adequate notice of
its passage shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city and shall go into effect on the day following such publication unless the
resolution prescribes a later time. While such resolution is in effect, it is
unlawful for any owner to permit a dog or cat to be at large in violation of
such resolution. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6D-2: ANIMAL BITES; QUARANTINE:
The identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a person shall
be promptly furnished to the animal control officer, the city health officer,
if any, and the county health department. The animal control officer shall
securely quarantine such animal for a period of ten (10) days and shall not
release such quarantined animal until reasonable determination has been made
that the animal is not infected with rabies. Such quarantine shall be at a
veterinary hospital of the owner's choice at the owner's expense or at the city
animal shelter, only if conditions are deemed appropriate by the animal control
officer. The animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies,
and such owner shall then pay any related charges for confinement. (Ord. 641,
10-25-2010)
6-6D-3: DEATH OF DIAGNOSED ANIMAL; SUPPORT INFORMATION:
When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed by a licensed veterinarian
as being rabid or is suspected of having rabies and dies while under such
observation, the animal control officer, veterinarian, the city health officer,
if any, or other designated person shall immediately send the necessary part of
such animal to the state health department for pathological examination and
shall notify the proper public health officer of any reports of human contact.
(Ord. 641, 10-25-2010; amd. 2013 Code)
6-6D-4: RABIES CRISIS:
   A.   Declaration: When a report gives a suspected or a positive diagnosis of
rabies, or when city, county or state health officials feel that a rabies
crisis may be imminent, such health officials may recommend to the city manager
a citywide quarantine and, upon invoking of such quarantine by the city
council, by resolution, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted
to be in the streets, except for short periods of exercise under leash and
control of a competent adult. During the quarantine, no animal may be taken or
removed from the city without written permission of the animal control officer.
This declaration must be made by notice in a general circulated newspaper of
the community and will last as long as health officials determine the situation
requires such action.
   B.   Destruction Of Animals Under Crisis Period: During any period of rabies
quarantine, every animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be
destroyed or, at the owner's expense and option, shall be treated for a rabies
infection by a licensed veterinarian, or held under six (6) month quarantine by
the owner in the same manner as a female in season. The period of quarantine
may be extended from time to time. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6D-5: SURRENDER OF RABIES SUSPECTS:
No person shall remove from the city any animal suspected of having been
exposed to rabies, or any animal which has bitten a human, except as herein
provided. The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered
to the animal control officer upon demand, and the animal control officer shall
direct disposition of the animal. No person shall refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction when such demand is lawfully made by the
animal control officer. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6D-6: KILLING RABID ANIMALS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any person may kill an
animal the appearance or conduct of which is such as would cause an ordinarily
prudent person to believe the animal to be afflicted with rabies and the
conduct of which is such that an ordinarily prudent person would believe
themselves to be in jeopardy of a bite or attack by such animal. (Ord. 641, 10-
25-2010)
ARTICLE E. EXOTIC ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-6E-1: Definition
6-6E-2: Prohibited Exotic Animals
6-6E-3: Permit Requirements
6-6E-4: Health Requirements
6-6E-5: Housing And Care
6-6E-6: Inspections
6-6E-7: Impoundment And Reclamation
6-6E-8: Revocation Of Permit
6-6E-9: Miniature Pigs
6-6E-1: DEFINITION:
An "exotic" animal is defined as any animal not normally considered
domesticated, and shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Class Reptilia: Order Phidia (such as racers, boas, water snakes and
pythons) and order Loricata (such as alligators and crocodiles).
   B.   Class Aves: Order Falconiforms (such as hawks, eagles and vultures) and
subdivision Ratitae (such as ostriches, rheas, cassowaries and emus).
   C.   Class Mammalia: Order Carnivora, family Felidae (such as ocelots,
tigers, jaguars, leopards and cougars), except commonly accepted domesticated
cats; the family Canidae (such as wolves, dingos, coyotes and jackals), except
domesticated dogs (unless, after complaint and investigation by the city
manager or his designee, the dog is determined to be vicious or has previously
attacked or bitten a person); family Mustelidae (such as weasels, minks and
badgers); family Procynnidae (raccoons); family Ursidae (such as bears); and
order Marsupialia (such as kangaroos and common opossums), order Edentata (such
as sloths, anteaters and armadillos), order Proboscidea (elephants), order
Primata (such as monkeys, chimpanzees and gorillas), order Rodenta (such as
porcupines) and order Ungulata (such as antelope, deer, bison, camels, and
potbellied pigs). (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6E-2: PROHIBITED EXOTIC ANIMALS:
The following exotic animals are prohibited:
   A.   Any exotic animal or species prohibited by federal and/or Oklahoma law.
   B.   Any exotic animal or species when kept in such numbers or in such a way
as to constitute likelihood of harm to the animals themselves, to human beings
or to the property of human beings, or which constitute a public or private
nuisance.
   C.   Bats.
   D.   Skunks.
   E.   Bears.
   F.   Bison.
   G.   Any large, nondomesticated, carnivorous animal in the family Felidae
(such as ocelots, tigers, jaguars, leopards, and cougars), in the family
Canidae (such as wolves, dingos, coyotes and jackals) and in the family Ursidae
(such as bears).
   H.   Two (2) or more exotic animals of any type over six (6) months of age
unless the premises upon which the exotic animals are housed is zoned
commercial or agriculture general.
   I.   Notwithstanding the above, a licensed zoological park, veterinary
hospital, Humane Society, licensed shelter, public laboratory, circus,
sideshow, or educational or scientific facility is excluded from the
prohibitions of this section so long as such entity provides protective devices
adequate to prevent such animals from escaping or injuring the public and is
otherwise permissible under all applicable city codes and ordinances.
   J.   Except as otherwise permitted in accordance with this article, the
following animals are absolutely prohibited within the city, and their
possession shall constitute a punishable offense:
Apes, chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans, baboons or other similar animals
generally within the family of monkeys.
Cheetahs.
Constrictor snakes or any venomous snakes.
Crocodiles.
Deer.
Gamecocks.
Hippopotamuses.
Hyenas, jaguars, tigers, lions and leopards.
Ostriches.
Piranhas.
Sharks.
Wolves or coyotes. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6E-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   No person shall receive, purchase, own or keep any exotic animal
without first applying for and receiving a permit to do so. Persons in
possession of exotic animals when they become residents of the city or who
possess exotic animals on the effective date hereof shall have a fifty (50) day
period in which to apply for said permit before the penalty provisions of this
chapter become applicable.
      2.   No person shall apply for an exotic animal permit without first
obtaining any required state or federal permits.
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for a permit shall contain the
name of the applicant; his address, phone number, social security number, date
of birth, the address of the proposed location of the exotic animal(s), if
different from the applicant's; a brief description of the applicant's plan for
keeping the exotic animal(s) which shall include the species of animal, the
number of individuals of each species, and a description of the housing
facilities; a list of individuals qualified to care for the animal(s) or that
have agreed to advise or assist the applicant in the proper care and treatment
of the animal(s) and who would be willing to recommend the person applying for
the permit; the list of publications which the applicant has studied in order
to qualify for a permit for the said animal(s).
   C.   Property Owner Approval Required: If the property on which the exotic
animal is to be located is not owned by the applicant, then written approval of
the property owner to have an exotic animal on the premises shall be provided.
(Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
   D.   Fee And Insurance:
      1.   The application shall be submitted with a nonrefundable application
fee as established by the city council. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   In addition, the applicant shall provide evidence of public
liability insurance coverage in an amount of not less than fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00), and specifically including any prospective damage
resulting from ownership of the animals as a covered event.
   E.   Inspections And Investigations: Upon receipt of the application, the
animal control officer and/or other qualified person designated by the city
manager shall inspect the facilities where the animal(s) is to be housed and
shall make whatever other investigations and impose whatever conditions they
deem necessary to protect the public interest.
   F.   Notices:
      1.   At the applicant's expense, notice of the hearing before the city
council on consideration of the application for an exotic animal permit shall
be given to all landowners within a three hundred foot (300') radius of the
exterior property boundary on which the exotic animal is to be housed by first
class mailing at least fifteen (15) days prior to the proposed hearing. Such
notice will specify the type(s) of exotic animal(s) to be housed and the
location thereof and the date, time, and place of the hearing.
      2.   In addition, the applicant shall post notice on the property,
pursuant to the zoning regulations for same, where the exotic animal will be
housed for at least fifteen (15) continuous days prior to the city council
hearing date that the application for an exotic animal permit shall be
considered and specifying the date, time and place of the hearing.
   G.   Issuance Of Permit; Term; Renewals:
      1.   If the city council approves the application by finding that the
granting of such permit will not constitute a menace to the health, peace or
safety of the community and that adequate safeguards have been made, then the
permit shall be issued by the city clerk and shall be valid for one calendar
year. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
      2.   The exotic animal permit must be renewed within thirty (30) days
after its expiration, and an inspection shall be required prior to the renewal
of the exotic animal permit. The annual fee for renewal of an exotic animal
permit shall be as established by the city council, which fee shall include the
cost of one inspection. Additional inspections to add more exotic animals or to
determine whether deficiencies exist or have been corrected shall be as
established by the city council for each exotic animal. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010;
amd. 2013 Code)
   H.   Additional Animals; Additional Permits:
      1.   Whenever a new exotic animal is added, except for newborns under six
(6) months of age, a new application for permit must be secured and a new
application fee shall be due and payable at the time of application for the
permit and shall be a prerequisite to issuance of a permit for the new exotic
animal.
      2.   If, during the preceding year, more than the initial permit has been
issued for the applicant, the former permits may be consolidated so that only
one renewal permit is required; provided, however, that the renewal date for
the consolidated permit shall be the date of the issuance of the earliest
initial permit. The city manager or his or her designee may deny the
application for renewal for cause. If a renewal permit is denied, the applicant
may appeal the denial to the city council within fifteen (15) days of notice of
denial by filing a written notice of appeal with the city clerk.
   I.   Change Of Residence Or Location:
      1.   A change of residence of the applicant for an exotic animal permit
or change of location for the permitted exotic animal(s) shall require a new
application and permit within fifteen (15) days of the change in residence or
location.
      2.   The exotic animal permittee must notify the city clerk when changing
residence or location on which the exotic animal(s) is maintained or selling or
otherwise disposing of the exotic animal(s) for which the permit was issued
within fifteen (15) days of such action. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6E-4: HEALTH REQUIREMENTS:
Individuals prospectively permitted to house an exotic animal must, within
fifteen (15) days of acquisition, submit to the animal control officer or his
or her designee, a health certificate from a qualified veterinarian stating
that the animal has been vaccinated in accordance with applicable laws and time
schedules. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6E-5: HOUSING AND CARE:
   A.   Housing for exotic animal(s) shall be sufficiently spacious and
ventilated and shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times, such sufficiency
to be determined by a qualified person.
   B.   The exotic animal(s) shall be provided with proper food, water and
attention and not exposed to cruel or inhumane treatment.
   C.   The exotic animal(s) shall be kept and cared for in such a way as to
not endanger the safety of any person or property. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6E-6: INSPECTIONS:
Premises for which permits are issued pursuant to the provisions of this
article shall be available for inspection upon request of the animal control
officer or his or her designee. Such premises shall be open at any reasonable
hour and in a reasonable manner for such inspection to be conducted in a safe
and convenient manner. In the event of failure of any permittee to abide by the
requirements herein, the permit may be withdrawn by the animal control officer
or his or her designee. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6E-7: IMPOUNDMENT AND RECLAMATION:
   A.   Impoundment:
      1.   For failure to have a permit in advance of obtaining an exotic
animal or to renew said permit within thirty (30) days of the expiration date,
or upon suspension of an exotic animal permit for any reason consistent with
the provisions of this article, the animal control officer or his or her
designee shall have the authority to enter the premises where the exotic animal
is kept at any reasonable hour to impound such animal or, as necessary, have it
impounded by a third party agency. In either case, all costs of impoundment
shall be paid by the owner of the animal.
      2.   In case of an emergency, the animal control officer or his or her
designee shall have the authority to enter the premises where the exotic animal
is kept and to impound said animal. The animal shall be surrendered upon
demand.
   B.   Reclamation: Procedures for reclamation and possible destruction of
impounded exotic animals shall be followed pursuant to advisement of an expert
consultant. The exotic animal may be returned to its owner if the problem for
which it was impounded is corrected within seven (7) days of its capture and
all penalties and charges are paid.
   C.   Impoundment Facility: In the event the city pound facility is
inadequate for housing the impounded exotic animal, the city may have the same
housed at another facility, and the owner of such exotic animal shall be
responsible for all costs incurred, regardless of amount.
   D.   Destruction Authorized: In the event an exotic animal is a threat to
the individual seeking to impound it, the impounding person may have the exotic
animal humanely destroyed. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6E-8: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
An exotic animal permit may be revoked by the animal control officer for any of
the following reasons: false or misleading information on an application for an
exotic animal permit or a renewal permit; failure to secure an additional
permit within the proscribed time period when an additional exotic animal is
located on the premises; changes in the character of the premises on which the
exotic animal is located, or the adjacent areas, which would cause the
continued retention of the exotic animal to be a threat to safety of the public
or a nuisance, or endangerment of the exotic animal; failure to abide by the
provisions of this article regulating exotic animals; or failure to take
corrective action as may be directed by the animal control officer or his or
her designee to correct noted deficiencies. (Ord. 641, 10-25-2010)
6-6E-9: MINIATURE PIGS:
A miniature pig may be kept as merchandise in commercially zoned property or
may be kept as a household pet in a single-family residential or duplex
property under the following conditions:
   A.   Each such miniature pig shall be a pet which is kept for personal
enjoyment and not raised for human consumption.
   B.   There shall not be more than two (2) miniature pigs in excess of six
(6) months of age at any residence.
   C.   Miniature pigs must be kept by their owner(s) in a manner that does not
violate this chapter or other ordinances of the city nor create a nuisance to
the neighborhood.
   D.   Miniature pigs must be kept confined within the building in which they
are housed or within any associated fenced yards, or held by a harness and
leash under the control of the owner or the owner's representative. (Ord. 641,
10-25-2010)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: State Regulations Adopted
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: Application Of Provisions; Exemptions
7-1-4: Vehicle Licensing And Insurance
7-1-5: Driver's License Required; Prohibitions
7-1-6: Improvements On Public Ways; Street Or Highway Closures
7-1-7: Accidents
7-1-8: Tampering With Vehicles Prohibited
7-1-9: Dangerous Objects In Streets Or Highways
7-1-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Unless expressly stated otherwise in this title and to the fullest extent such
laws and regulations are reasonably applicable to the operation of motor
vehicles in the city, the city hereby adopts and incorporates by reference 47
Oklahoma Statutes, as the same may be amended. (2013 Code)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this title, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section unless the context necessitates
otherwise or a different definition is provided:
ANCIENT VEHICLE: A motor vehicle that is thirty (30) years of age or older,
registered to a resident of the city and operated primarily incidental to
historical and exhibition purposes.
ARTERIAL STREET: Any street or highway within the city limits designated as a
primary or secondary arterial on the city's major street and highway plan.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES: Vehicles of any fire department; ambulances;
federal, state or local vehicles designated for use by any law enforcement
agency, military unit or emergency management entity, when equipped with sirens
and flashing red lights.
AUTOMOBILE: Every motor vehicle constructed and used for the transportation of
persons, except a bus.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled solely by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two (2) or more wheels.
BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage on either side of the
street or highway for a distance of three hundred feet (300') or more is
occupied by buildings designed for and used for business.
CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street or roadway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of
access to or from the same except at such points and in such manner as may be
determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such highway,
street or roadway.
CROSSWALK: A. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street or highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the
edges of the traversable roadway.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
DRIVER OR OPERATOR: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of
a vehicle.
FIRE LANE: Any street or highway set aside by the police department to be kept
clear of parked vehicles for the convenience of the fire department in
answering fire alarms.
FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
HIGHWAY OR STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel except alleys, alleyways, bridle paths and
footpaths. The words "highway" and "street" are synonymous herein.
INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two (2) streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a street or highway includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30')
or more apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street or
highway by an intersecting street or highway shall be regarded as a separate
intersection. In the event such intersecting street or highway also includes
two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more apart, then every crossing of two
(2) roadways of such streets or highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled by electric, diesel or
internal combustion engine or similar device.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of one or
more riders and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact
with the ground, but excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, barricades, signals, markings,
devices and warning or directional signs and signals not inconsistent with this
title placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers.
PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE: A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation.
POLICE DEPARTMENT: The police department of the city, including the chief of
police. The chief of police and all police officers shall be subordinate to and
under the direction and control of the city manager.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the city police department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violation of
traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of three hundred feet (300') or more is, by fifty percent (50%) or more of lot
sizes, improved with residences or residences and buildings in use for
business.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a street or
highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used
herein, refers to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
SAFETY ZONE OR ISLAND: An area or space officially set apart within a roadway
for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone or island.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street or highway between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the
use of pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other
than temporarily, for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
STOP: When required, means complete cessation from movement.
STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
STREET: See definition of Highway Or Street.
THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY: Every street or highway or portion thereof on which
vehicular traffic is given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to
which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to yield the right of way to vehicles on such through street or highway in
obedience to either a stop sign or a yield sign, when such signs are erected as
provided in this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances,
either singly or together, while using any street or highway for purposes of
travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street or highway
which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling
houses situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a
distance of one-fourth (1/4) of one mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved solely by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (2002 Code §
10.04.010; amd. 2013 Code)
7-1-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Authorized Emergency Vehicles: The driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle, when responding to an emergency call, or in pursuit of an actual or
suspected violator of the law, or responding to a fire, may:
      1.   Park or stand without regard to this title;
      2.   Proceed through a stop signal upon slowing down sufficiently to
ensure safe travel;
      3.   Exceed maximum speed limits, so long as doing so does not endanger
life or property;
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement;
      5.   Disregard regulations governing turning in specified directions;
subject to the driver to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons.
(2013 Code)
   B.   Animals And Animal Drawn Vehicles: Every person riding an animal or
driving any animal drawn vehicle upon a roadway shall be subject to all rights
and duties created by this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle,
except those provisions of this title which, by their very nature, can have no
application. (2002 Code § 10.04.060; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Public Agencies; Military Organizations: The provisions of this title
shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the service of the
United States government, any state, county, city or other governmental unit or
agency, as well as to other vehicles; and it is unlawful for any such driver to
violate any of the provisions of this title except as otherwise permitted in
this title or by state statute; provided, that this title shall not apply to
the military forces of the United States and organizations of the national
guard when performing any military duty. Such military vehicles shall have the
right of way on any street or highway through which they may pass against all,
except carriers of the United States mail, fire engines, ambulances and police
vehicles in the necessary discharge of their respective duties. Said mounted
military moving in convoy shall have lights burning, with lead and trail
vehicles prominently marked, and shall travel, while inside the corporate
limits of the city, in compliance with such speeds as are legally posted within
the corporate limits of the city and shall maintain a closed interval of not
more than seventy five feet (75'). (2002 Code § 10.04.080; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   Public Works Employees: Unless specifically made applicable, the
provisions of this title, except those relating to reckless driving and driving
while intoxicated, shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other
equipment while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to
persons, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in
construction, maintenance or repair of public utilities; provided, that all
highway and public utility operations shall be protected by adequate warning
signs, signals, devices or flagmen; but the provisions of this title shall
apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work. (2002
Code § 10.04.090)
   E.   Postal Vehicles:
      1.   Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent the vehicles of
the United States postal service, while engaged in the business of the service,
or the duly authorized and licensed operators of such vehicles in pursuance of
their duties from:
         a.   Double parking such vehicles while engaged in collecting and
delivering U.S. mail.
         b.   Leaving the vehicle while the motor is running in a double parked
condition without a licensed operator therein.
         c.   Using areas designated as "loading zones", "taxi zones" or
similar restrictions for the collection and delivery of the U.S. mail.
         d.   Leaving the vehicle parked in an alley where less than ten feet
(10') of alley width remains for the use of through traffic.
         e.   The use of designated passenger loading zones.
      2.   However, such exemptions shall apply only for the purpose of
momentary stops for mail pick up and delivery. (2002 Code § 10.04.130; amd.
2013 Code)
7-1-4: VEHICLE LICENSING AND INSURANCE:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon
a street or highway of the city without a state vehicle license as may be
required by law or to fail to display the state vehicle license as may be
required by law. (2002 Code § 10.08.210)
   B.   Insurance Required:
      1.   Any owner or operator of a vehicle licensed in Oklahoma must produce
for inspection, upon the request of any police officer, a valid and current
security verification form or equivalent form approved by the department of
public safety. (2002 Code § 10.08.050; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   All operators of motor vehicles shall be required and shall be
responsible for carrying within the motor vehicle verification of insurance
liability coverage upon such motor vehicle. Such insurance liability coverage
shall be in force and effect at any and all times that the motor vehicle is
driven upon public streets, highways, thoroughfares or rights of way. (2002
Code § 10.08.050)
      3.   Any owner or operator of a motor vehicle who fails to have
verification of insurance coverage shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an
offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code and, in addition thereto, shall be subject to suspension
of the driving privilege of such person. (2002 Code § 10.08.050; amd. 2013
Code)
7-1-5: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED; PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person who does not have a
driver's license as required by state law for operation of a motor vehicle upon
the state highways to operate a motor vehicle within the city. (2002 Code §
10.08.190)
   B.   Allowing Persons To Drive Without License Prohibited: It is unlawful
for any person to authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him or
her or under his or her control to be driven upon any street or highway in the
city by any person who is not authorized or licensed to drive a motor vehicle
under the laws of the state of Oklahoma or under the laws of the state of the
driver's residence. (2002 Code § 10.08.200)
   C.   Driving Under Suspension, Cancellation, Revocation Or Denial
Prohibited: An individual convicted of the offense of driving under suspension,
cancellation, revocation or denial shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an
offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code, such penalties escalating in severity for each subsequent
offense. (2002 Code § 10.08.220; amd. 2013 Code)
7-1-6: IMPROVEMENTS ON PUBLIC WAYS; STREET OR HIGHWAY CLOSURES:
   A.   Authority To Close Streets Or Highways: City personnel or contractors,
while repairing or improving the streets or highways of the city, and city
personnel and utility companies when installing, improving or repairing lines
or other utility facilities in the streets or highways are authorized, as
necessary, subject to control by the city council, to close any street or
highway or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance or
construction; and in exercising such authority, shall erect or cause to be
erected proper control devices and barricades to warn and notify the public
that the street or highway has been closed to traffic.
   B.   Compliance By Drivers Required: When any street or highway has been
closed to traffic under the provisions of subsection A of this section and
traffic control devices or barricades have been erected, it is unlawful for any
person to drive any vehicle through, under, over or around such traffic control
devices or barricades or otherwise to enter the closed area; except, that the
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons while engaged in such
construction, maintenance and repair, or to persons entering therein for the
protection of lives or property; provided further, that persons having their
places of residence or places of business within the closed area may travel,
when possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   C.   Warning Devices: Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any
street, highway or utility line or facility is being performed under traffic,
the city personnel, contractor or utility company concerned shall erect or
cause to be erected traffic control devices to warn and guide the public; and
every person using such street or highway shall obey all signs, signals,
markings, flagmen or other traffic control devices which are placed to
regulate, control and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area. (2002 Code § 10.04.100)
7-1-7: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Duty To Give Information: Every driver of a motor vehicle, after
participating in or causing an accident by collision or otherwise, or injuring
any person or property, shall forthwith stop and give his or her name and
address, the name and address of each occupant of the motor vehicle driven by
himself or herself, and the number of his or her vehicle to any person
authorized by law to demand the same and, after affording every reasonable
assistance to the injured person or animal, report the accident forthwith to
the police. (2002 Code § 10.08.030; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Report Required:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident in which physical damage is done to one or more vehicles or other
property shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a police
officer or to the police department.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
or death of any person shall immediately, by the quickest means of
communication, give notice of such accident to the local police department.
(2002 Code § 10.08.040; amd. 2013 Code)
      3.   The driver of any vehicle which collides with another vehicle
unattended shall immediately stop then and there, either locate and notify
owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the driver of the vehicle
striking the unattended vehicle, or leave in a conspicuous place in the vehicle
struck a written notice giving the name and address of the owner striking the
vehicle. (2002 Code § 10.08.040)
7-1-8: TAMPERING WITH VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall, without the consent of the owner or the person in charge of a
motor vehicle, change the position of the levers, switches or other parts of
any motor vehicle or in any way use, occupy, injure, deface, scratch, cut, or
tamper with any motor vehicle. Provided, that this section shall not apply in
the case of moving or starting of a motor vehicle by police or peace officers
for lawful purposes, nor by members of the fire department in the case of
emergency in the vicinity of a fire, nor the changing of the position of the
motor vehicle temporarily without starting the motor of the same by anyone for
the purpose of extracting or removing another vehicle from a congested
position. (2002 Code § 10.48.010; amd. 2013 Code)
7-1-9: DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS OR HIGHWAYS:
It is unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed or let fall and
remain in or upon any street or highway any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass,
stick or other thing which is likely to injure persons or damage property or to
render a vehicle unsafe for operation or a street or highway unsafe for
traffic. (2002 Code § 10.48.070; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
7-2-1: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
7-2-2: Duties Of Police And Fire Departments
7-2-3: Eluding Police Prohibited
7-2-4: Citations
7-2-5: Presumption Regarding Illegal Parking
7-2-6: Complaint Entered And Warrant Issued
7-2-7: Violations
7-2-1: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
The city council, by motion or resolution, is empowered to make effective the
provisions of the traffic ordinances of the city and to make temporary or
experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions. No such
temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect for more than
ninety (90) days. (2002 Code § 10.04.030)
7-2-2: DUTIES OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS:
   A.   Police Department:
      1.   It is the duty of the police department to enforce the street and
highway traffic regulations of the city and all of the state vehicle laws
applicable to traffic in the city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, to cooperate with other officers of the city or county
in the administration of traffic laws and in developing ways and means to
improve traffic conditions and to carry out those duties specifically imposed
upon the department by this title, or any other traffic ordinances of the city,
or any statute. (2002 Code § 10.04.020; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   Officers of the police department, or such officers as are assigned
by the chief of police, are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances; provided, that in the
event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions
may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   B.   Fire Department: Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of
a fire or other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic
thereat or in the immediate vicinity. (2002 Code § 10.04.020)
7-2-3: ELUDING POLICE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual and audible
signal including, without limitation, a red light and a siren from a police
officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to be an
official police, sheriff, or highway patrol car, directing the operator to
bring his or her vehicle to a stop, and who wilfully increases his or her
speed, or extinguishes his or her lights in an attempt to elude such police
officer, or wilfully attempts in any other manner to elude the police officer,
or who does elude such police officer within the city shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (2002 Code § 10.04.150; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Any person who causes an accident, while eluding or attempting to elude
an officer, resulting in great bodily injury to any other person while driving
or operating a motor vehicle within the city and who is in violation of the
provisions of subsection A of this section may be charged with a violation of
the provisions of this subsection. As used in this subsection, "great bodily
injury" means bodily injury which creates a substantial risk of death or which
causes serious, permanent disfigurement or protracted loss or impairment of the
function of any bodily member or organ. (2013 Code)
7-2-4: CITATIONS:
   A.   Issuance And Contents: Police officers are authorized to give notice to
persons violating provisions of this title by issuance of one or more citations
to violators or, in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped
in violation of this title, by affixing such citations to such vehicles. Such
citation, among other things, shall indicate briefly the charge, shall bear the
registration number of the vehicle, and shall direct the violator to present
the citation at the police station or other designated place within such
reasonable time as may be specified thereon. Nothing in this subsection shall
abridge the power to arrest any violator and to take him or her into custody,
or to file a complaint against him or her at any time.
   B.   City Citations: The city manager may require that the police officers
use citations furnished by the city clerk and that such citations be serially
numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of such citations. (2002 Code §
10.04.160; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Failure To Comply With Citation: If a violator of any provision of this
title, who has been issued a citation as provided in this section, fails to
appear in accordance with the instructions on such citation, the chief of
police or his or her authorized agent shall send to the owner of the vehicle
involved a letter or other written notice informing him or her of the violation
and warning him or her to appear as directed, and that in the event such letter
or notice is disregarded for a period of ten (10) days, a complaint will be
filed and warrant of arrest issued; provided, that nothing in this subsection
shall abridge the power to file a complaint against him or her prior to the
expiration of such time. (2002 Code § 10.04.170; amd. 2013 Code)
7-2-5: PRESUMPTION REGARDING ILLEGAL PARKING:
In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing the
standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described
in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or regulation,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time
of such parking, the registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle
was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for
the time during which, such violation occurred. This presumption shall apply
only when the procedure of issuing a citation has been followed. (2002 Code §
10.04.180; amd. 2013 Code)
7-2-6: COMPLAINT ENTERED AND WARRANT ISSUED:
In the event any person fails to comply with a citation issued to such person
or attached to a vehicle, the chief of police shall have a complaint entered
against such person before the municipal judge, and the municipal judge shall
issue a warrant for such person's arrest. (2002 Code § 10.04.190; amd. 2013
Code)
7-2-7: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It is an offense against the city for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title. (2002 Code §§
10.04.040, 10.04.200)
   B.   It is unlawful for a parent of a child or the guardian of a child or
the guardian of a ward to authorize or knowingly to permit any such child or
ward to violate any provision of this title.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to authorize or
knowingly permit any vehicle registered in his or her or its name to be driven
or to stand or be parked in violation of any provisions of this title. (2002
Code § 10.04.200)
   D.   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order
or direction of a police officer or fire department official. (2002 Code §
10.04.050)
ARTICLE A. IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-2A-1: Impoundment From Public Ways
7-2A-2: Impoundment From Public Or Private Places
7-2A-1: IMPOUNDMENT FROM PUBLIC WAYS:
Members of the police department are authorized to remove a vehicle from a
street or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a
garage designated or maintained by the police department or otherwise
maintained by the city, under the following circumstances: (2002 Code §
10.52.010)
   A.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, highway, bridge,
or other public thoroughfare where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic. (2002 Code § 10.52.010; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   When a vehicle upon a street or highway is so disabled as to constitute
an obstruction to traffic, and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle
are, by reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be
unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   C.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or highway and is so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic. (2002 Code § 10.52.010)
7-2A-2: IMPOUNDMENT FROM PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PLACES:
   A.   Authority: From and after the effective date hereof, the chief of
police shall be and is authorized and directed to cause the impoundment in any
public or private storage yard or place of vehicles under the following
circumstances:
      1.   When such vehicle is parked on private property without the consent
of the owner, occupant, or person in charge of the private property, and after
complaint in written form, signed by the owner, occupant, or person in charge
of such property.
      2.   When any such vehicle is found parked in front of or blocking any
private driveway or public alley.
      3.   When such vehicle is found parked between the curb of a public
street and a private property line, unless permitted under this code. (2002
Code § 10.52.020)
   B.   Complaint; Fine And Costs:
      1.   Prior to the impoundment of any vehicle found in violation of the
provisions of subsection A of this section, a written complaint shall be signed
by the owner of private property, or the occupant or person in charge thereof,
or by the investigating officer, and the complaint shall be verified by the
city attorney after investigation. The complaint shall thereafter be filed with
the clerk of the municipal court.
      2.   Upon the payment of the fine hereinafter fixed, either on plea of
guilty or after conviction, and after the payment of other applicable
penalties, the clerk of the court shall issue to the owner of any such vehicle
a receipt for the payment of the fine and other penalties lawfully assessed
against the owner.
      3.   The owner of the vehicle, upon presentation of the receipt to the
owner or person in charge of the storage yard or place in which his or her
vehicle has been impounded, shall be entitled to have delivered over to him or
her the vehicle after the payment of reasonable towing and storage charges.
(2002 Code § 10.52.030; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Nuisance Declared; Penalty: Any owner of a vehicle found in violation
of the provisions of subsection A of this section shall be deemed guilty of
creating a public nuisance punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code, which shall be in addition to any other penalties
lawfully assessed against the owner. (2002 Code § 10.52.040; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, MARKINGS AND DEVICES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Authority To Install Traffic Control Devices
7-3-2: Specifications
7-3-3: Effect Of Signs For Enforcement Purposes
7-3-4: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices; Evasion Prohibited
7-3-5: Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings
7-3-6: Interference With, Damage To Devices
7-3-7: Designation Of Crosswalks And Safety Zones
7-3-8: Marking Traffic Lanes
7-3-9: Signs Posted On Certain Streets And Highways
7-3-10: Traffic Control Signal Legend
7-3-11: Flashing Signals
7-3-12: Pedestrian Actuated School Crossing Signals
7-3-13: Pedestrian Control Signals
7-3-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The city manager shall have placed and maintained traffic control signs,
signals and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the
city to make effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may have placed
and maintained such additional traffic control signs, signals and devices as
may be deemed necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the
city or under state law or to guide or warn traffic. (2002 Code § 10.12.010)
7-3-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the
manual and specifications approved by the state highway department.
   B.   All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the
city.
   C.   All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of state law or this title shall be official traffic control
devices. (2002 Code § 10.12.020)
7-3-3: EFFECT OF SIGNS FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES:
No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place. (2002 Code § 10.12.040)
7-3-4: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EVASION PROHIBITED:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter or law, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this title. (2002 Code § 10.12.030)
   B.   No driver shall drive through a filling station driveway, other
driveway or private property so as to avoid the use of a street or highway or
traffic control device. (2002 Code § 10.12.150)
7-3-5: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS:
   A.   Imitation Traffic Control Devices: No person shall place, maintain or
display upon or in view of any street or highway an unauthorized sign, signal,
marking or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an
official traffic control device, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or which projects any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which
hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic
control device. (2002 Code § 10.12.090; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Advertising On Traffic Control Devices: No person shall place or
maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon any street or highway any
traffic sign, signal or device bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   C.   Exemptions: This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to streets or highways of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   Summary Removal: Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device
is declared to be a public nuisance, and the city is empowered to remove the
same without notice. (2002 Code § 10.12.090)
7-3-6: INTERFERENCE WITH, DAMAGE TO DEVICES:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device including any
911 emergency telephone service route markers, or any inscription, shield or
insignia thereon, or any other part thereof. (2002 Code § 10.12.100; amd. 2013
Code)
7-3-7: DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
The city manager is authorized: (2002 Code § 10.12.130; amd. 2013 Code)
   A.   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in its opinion,
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such
other places as it may deem necessary; and (2002 Code § 10.12.130)
   B.   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places
as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (2002 Code §
10.12.130; amd. 2013 Code)
7-3-8: MARKING TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   The city manager is authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the
roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary. (2002 Code § 10.12.140; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance. (2002 Code § 10.12.140)
7-3-9: SIGNS POSTED ON CERTAIN STREETS AND HIGHWAYS:
   A.   One-Way Streets, Highways And Alleys: Except as may be otherwise
provided by the city zoning and/or subdivision regulations, the city manager
shall designate any street, highway or alley or part thereof as a one-way
street, highway or alley. The city shall have placed and maintained signs
giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless such
signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement
shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited. (2002 Code § 10.12.160; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Through Streets Or Highways: Except as may be otherwise provided by the
city zoning and/or subdivision regulations, the city manager shall designate a
through street or highway. The city shall have placed and maintained a stop
sign, or if deemed more appropriate at any intersection, a yield sign, on each
and every street or highway intersecting such through street or highway unless
traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic control
signals; provided, however, that at the intersection of two (2) such through
streets or highways or at the intersection of a through street or highway and a
heavy traffic street or highway not so designated, stop signs shall be erected
at the approaches of either of the streets or highways as may be determined by
the city council. (2002 Code § 10.12.170; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Stop Or Yield Intersections:
      1.   Authority: The city manager is authorized to designate whether
intersections shall be marked with stop or yield signs. The city shall have
placed and maintained said signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation
shall be effective unless such signs are in place. (2002 Code § 10.12.180; amd.
2013 Code)
      2.   Sign Specifications And Location:
         a.   Every stop sign shall bear the word "Stop" in letters not less
than eight inches (8") in height. Every yield sign shall bear the word "Yield"
in letters not less than seven inches (7") in height. Every stop sign and every
yield sign shall, at nighttime, be rendered luminous by internal illumination,
or by a floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient
reflecting elements in the face of the sign.
         b.   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway. (2002 Code § 10.12.190)
      3.   Duty To Yield: The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection
without any traffic control device to regulate the flow of traffic entering the
intersection shall yield the right of way to all vehicles already in the
intersection or to any vehicle from his or her right whenever that vehicle is
so close as to constitute an immediate hazard. (2002 Code § 10.12.180)
7-3-10: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting different
colored lights or lighted arrows successively one at a time, or in combination,
only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows: (2002
Code § 10.12.050; amd. 2013 Code)
   A.   Green Alone Or "Go":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the green alone or "Go" signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign or barricade at such place
prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning
right or left, shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the
time such signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the green alone or "Go" signal may proceed across
the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   B.   Steady Yellow Alone Or Caution:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady yellow alone signal is thereby
warned that the red or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter,
and such vehicular traffic shall not enter or cross the intersection when the
red or "Stop" signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the steady yellow alone signal are thereby
advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any
pedestrian then starting to cross shall yield the right of way to all vehicles.
   C.   Steady Red Alone Or "Stop":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady red alone or "Stop" signal shall
stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until
green or "Go" is shown alone, or while the signal is still red, vehicular
traffic may turn right from the appropriate lane after coming to the required
stop, unless otherwise provided by the city or unless hereinafter provided
otherwise. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to pedestrians
lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection. (2002 Code § 10.12.050)
      2.   In order to prohibit right turns on the red signal after the
required stop, the city must erect clear, concise signs informing drivers that
such turns are prohibited. The highway department shall specify the design of
the sign to be used for this purpose, and it shall be used uniformly throughout
the city. (2002 Code § 10.12.050; amd. 2013 Code)
      3.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   D.   Steady Red With Green Arrow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady red with green arrow signal may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, but shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      2.   No pedestrian facing the steady red with green arrow signal shall
enter the roadway until the green or "Go" is shown alone or until authorized to
do so by pedestrian "Walk" signal.
   E.   Signals At Other Than Intersections: In the event an official traffic
control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection,
the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to those
provisions which, by their nature, can have no application. Any stop required
shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop
shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking, the stop shall
be made at the signal. (2002 Code § 10.12.050)
7-3-11: FLASHING SIGNALS:
Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic sign
or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   A.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   B.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution. (2002 Code § 10.12.070;
amd. 2013 Code)
7-3-12: PEDESTRIAN ACTUATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS:
Whenever a pedestrian actuated school crossing signal is provided, it requires
obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Flashing Yellow:
      1.   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or pass
such signal only with caution.
      2.   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
actuate the signal control switch, and shall wait until the steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
   B.   Steady Yellow Alone:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady yellow alone signal is thereby
warned that the red or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter,
and such vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or
pass the signal when the red or "Stop" signal is exhibited.
      2.   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which the
steady yellow alone signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is
shown.
   C.   Steady Red:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
before passing the signal or entering the intersection, and shall remain
standing until flashing yellow is shown alone.
      2.   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the steady red
signal and shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   D.   Steady Red And Steady Yellow Combined:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red and steady yellow combined
signal is thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal will be exhibited
immediately thereafter, and that such vehicular traffic shall remain standing
until the flashing yellow is shown alone.
      2.   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her crossing
shall proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island and shall be given the
right of way by the drivers of all vehicles. (2002 Code § 10.12.080)
7-3-13: PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Wait" or "Don't Walk" are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:
   A.   Walk: Pedestrians facing the "Walk" signal may proceed across the
roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by
the drivers of all vehicles.
   B.   Wait Or Don't Walk: No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of a "Wait" or "Don't Walk" signal, but any pedestrian who has
partially completed his or her crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a
sidewalk or safety island while the wait signal is showing. (2002 Code §
10.12.060)
CHAPTER 4
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
7-4-2: Right Of Way
7-4-3: Through Streets Or Highways; Stop And Yield Intersections
7-4-4: One-Way Streets, Highways And Alleys; Rotary Traffic Islands
7-4-5: Speed Restrictions
7-4-6: Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic
7-4-7: Drive On Right
7-4-8: Passing And Overtaking Vehicles
7-4-9: Turning Movements
7-4-10: Driver Signals
7-4-11: Restrictions On Driving
7-4-12: Meeting Or Overtaking School Buses
7-4-13: Truck Routes
7-4-14: Parades And Processions
7-4-15: Toy Vehicles
7-4-16: Reckless, Careless Or Negligent Driving
7-4-17: Driving Under Influence Of Intoxicants
7-4-18: Miscellaneous Prohibitions
7-4-19: Speeding On A Roadway Under Construction, Maintenance Or Repair
7-4-1: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles: The driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or when in the pursuit
of an actual or suspected violator of the law or ordinance or when responding
to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise the privileges set
forth in this subsection, but subject to the conditions herein stated.
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         a.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
         d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specific directions.
      2.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of audible
and visual signals as required by law; except, that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red
light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      3.   The provisions of this subsection shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others. (2002
Code § 10.08.010)
   B.   Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle:
      1.   Emergency Vehicle In Motion:
         a.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws
of this state or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of
way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as
possible to the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
         b.   This subsection B1 shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using city streets and highways.
         c.   All vehicles shall yield the right of way to authorized emergency
vehicles while such equipment is on an emergency run, even when such equipment
is proceeding against an official traffic control device. (2002 Code §
10.08.020)
      2.   Stationary Emergency Vehicles:
         a.   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary
authorized emergency vehicle that is displaying a flashing combination red or
blue light or any combination of red or blue lights, shall:
            (1)   If traveling on a street or highway that consists of two (2)
or more lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of travel as that of the
driver, the driver shall proceed with due caution and shall, if possible and
with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic conditions, change lanes into
a lane that is not adjacent to the stationary authorized emergency vehicle; or
if the driver is not able to change lanes or if to do so would be unsafe, the
driver shall proceed with due caution and reduce the speed of the motor vehicle
to a safe speed for the existing road, weather, and traffic conditions; and
            (2)   If traveling on a street or highway other than a street or
highway described in subsection B2a(1) of this section, the driver shall
proceed with due caution and reduce the speed of the motor vehicle to a safe
speed for the existing road, weather, and traffic conditions.
         b.   This subsection B2 does not relieve the operator of a stationary
authorized emergency vehicle from the consequences of reckless disregard for
the safety of all persons and property upon city streets and highways. (Ord.
585, 2-19-2008)
   C.   Interference With Emergency Personnel:
      1.   It is unlawful for the operator or passenger of any vehicle
whatsoever to drive or park his or her vehicle in any place as would interfere
with the performance of firefighters on duty at a fire, or a police officer or
ambulance driver at any fire, accident, catastrophe, or any public emergency
whatsoever. (2002 Code § 10.08.430; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   It is unlawful for any pedestrian to interfere with the work of
firefighters, police officers, ambulance drivers, doctors, nurses or others at
the scene of fires, accidents, catastrophes or occurrences of public emergency
nature. (2002 Code § 10.08.430)
   D.   Fire Department Vehicles:
      1.   Following Fire Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle, other than one
on official business, shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response
to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a
fire alarm. (2002 Code § 10.08.440)
      2.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of the fire department when laid down on any street or private driveway to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire without the consent of the fire department
official in command. (2002 Code § 10.08.450)
7-4-2: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Intersections:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle on a street or
highway that is not a state or federal highway approaching an intersection with
a state or federal highway shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle
that has entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard.
      2.   When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an intersection from
different streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the
vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
      3.   The right of way declared in subsections A1 and A2 of this section
are modified at through streets or highways and otherwise as may be stated in
this title. (2002 Code § 10.08.330)
   B.   Left Turn At Intersection: The driver of a vehicle within an
intersection intending to turn to the left shall yield the right of way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within the
intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard; but the
driver, having so yielded and having given a signal when and as required by
this title, may make such left turn, and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection from the opposite direction shall yield the right
of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (2002 Code § 10.08.340)
   C.   Two Or More Vehicles Facing Signals: Where two (2) or more vehicles
face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or signals on two (2) or more
intersecting cross streets, and are approaching so as to enter the intersection
at the same time, where each vehicle is required to stop, the vehicle coming
from the right shall have the right of way. Where each vehicle is required to
slow or take caution, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of
way. Where one vehicle is required to stop and the other to slow or take
caution, the one slowing or taking caution shall have the right of way. In any
event, a vehicle which has already entered the intersection shall have the
right of way over one which has not so entered the intersection. (2002 Code §
10.08.370; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The driver of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across any alleyway or driveway and shall yield the right of way to
any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway. (2002 Code § 10.08.380)
7-4-3: THROUGH STREETS OR HIGHWAYS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets Or Highways: The city council, by ordinance or
resolution, may designate any street or highway or part of a street or highway
a through street or highway. (2002 Code § 10.04.110; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Stop Intersections:
      1.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      2.   Such driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right of way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another street or highway
or which is approaching so closely on the street or highway as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but the driver who has so yielded may proceed, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the
right of way to the vehicle so proceeding. (2002 Code § 10.08.350)
   C.   Yield Intersections:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or
shall stop if necessary, and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian
legally crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving, and to any vehicle
in the intersection or approaching on another street or highway so closely as
to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver, having so yielded, may proceed,
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
to the vehicle so proceeding; provided, however, that if such driver is
involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the
intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such collision
shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his or her failure to yield the right
of way.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(2002 Code § 10.08.360)
7-4-4: ONE-WAY STREETS, HIGHWAYS AND ALLEYS; ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
   A.   One-Way Streets, Highways And Alleys: Upon those streets and highways
and parts of streets and highways and in those alleys and parts of alleys so
designated as one-way streets, highways and alleys, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited. (2002 Code § 10.08.310)
   B.   Rotary Traffic Islands: A vehicle passing around a rotary island shall
be driven only to the right of such island. (2002 Code § 10.08.320)
7-4-5: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Reasonable And Proper: Any person driving a vehicle on a street or
highway shall drive the same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than
nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface and width of the street or highway, and any other condition then
existing; and no person shall drive any vehicle upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the
assured clear distance ahead. (2002 Code § 10.08.150)
   B.   Speed Limits Established:
      1.   Generally: Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower
speed for compliance with subsection A of this section, the limits specified in
this title or established as hereinafter authorized shall be maximum lawful
speeds, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
in excess of such maximum limits, as follows: Twenty five (25) miles per hour
on any street or highway adjacent to any school between eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on days when school is in session, except as
otherwise required by state authority; provided, that the city council, by
ordinance or resolution, may reduce or increase this speed limit, and when it
does so, appropriate signs shall be placed on such streets or highways
indicating the lower or higher speed limit. (2002 Code § 10.08.150; amd. 2013
Code)
      2.   Specific Streets:
         a.   The speed limit on 141st Street between Highway 75 and Elwood
Avenue shall be thirty five (35) miles per hour.
         b.   Subsection B2a of this section to the contrary notwithstanding,
the thirty five (35) miles per hour speed limit shall be reduced to twenty five
(25) miles per hour within school zones as posted.
         c.   On the days when school is not in session and during hours when
school is not in session, the speed within the school zone shall be thirty five
(35) miles per hour.
   C.   Minimum Speed: It is unlawful for any person to drive at such a slow
speed as to impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic. (2002 Code §
10.08.150)
7-4-6: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply:
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   B.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance or in preparation for a left turn, or where such
center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such
allocation.
   C.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign. (2002 Code § 10.08.130)
7-4-7: DRIVE ON RIGHT:
   A.   Upon all roadway of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereto.
      4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicles proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right hand lane then available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (2002 Code § 10.08.060)
7-4-8: PASSING AND OVERTAKING VEHICLES:
   A.   Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Directions: Drivers of vehicles
proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right, and upon
roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic in each direction,
each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) of the main
traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (2002 Code § 10.08.070)
   B.   Overtaking Vehicle On Left:
      1.   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of
vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations,
exceptions and special rules hereinafter stated:
         a.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. (2002 Code § 10.08.080)
         b.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of a vehicle being overtaken shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle with or without audible signal and shall not increase the
speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
         c.   All motor vehicles, before passing other vehicles from the rear,
shall give notice of approach by horn or other signal before passing; provided,
that the vehicle shall be required, when signaled, to turn to one side and
yield half the road. (2002 Code § 10.08.080; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the
roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction. (2002 Code § 10.08.100)
      3.   a. No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the
roadway under the following conditions:
            (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
street or highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as
to create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the
opposite direction. (2002 Code § 10.08.110)
            (2)   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or
traversing an intersection. (2002 Code § 10.08.110; amd. 2013 Code)
            (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within one
hundred feet (100') of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
         b.   The limitations of this subsection B3 shall not apply upon a one-
way roadway. (2002 Code § 10.08.110)
   C.   Overtaking On Right Permitted:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn.
         b.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
         c.   Upon a one-way street or highway or upon any roadway on which
traffic is restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free
from obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (2002 Code § 10.08.090)
   D.   No Passing Zones:
      1.   The Oklahoma department of highways as regards state and federal
highways, and the city council as regards all other streets and highways, are
authorized to determine those portions of a street or highway where overtaking
and passing or driving to the left of the roadway would be especially
hazardous, and shall, by appropriate signs or markings on the roadway, have the
beginning and end of such zones indicated. When such signs or markings are in
place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant person, every driver of a
vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
      2.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone as
set forth in subsection D1 of this section, no driver shall at any time drive
to the left side of the roadway within such no passing zone or on the left side
of any pavement striping designed to mark such no passing zone throughout its
length. (2002 Code § 10.08.120)
7-4-9: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Turning Markers Or Indicators: The city manager is authorized to have
placed markers, signals or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating
the course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such
course to be traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other than as
prescribed by law or ordinance. When authorized markers, signals or other
indicators are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such indicators. (2002 Code § 10.08.240; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Designation Of Restricted Turns:
      1.   The city manager is authorized to determine those intersections at
which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall have
placed proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in
which event, the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be
removed when such turns are permitted. (2002 Code § 10.08.250; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or
left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign. (2002 Code § 10.08.260)
   C.   Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections: The driver of
a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows: (2002
Code § 10.08.230)
      1.   Right And Left Turns Generally: Both the approach for a right turn
and a right turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb
or edge of the roadway. (2002 Code § 10.08.230; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection; and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable,
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection. In no event shall any person execute a left
turn across any lane for oncoming traffic for the purpose of occupying a
parking place on the opposite side of the street or highway from the original
direction of travel, except to enter a parking lot or private driveway.
      3.   Left Turns On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle
intending to turn left at any such intersection shall approach the intersection
in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the
direction of travel of such vehicle, and after entering the intersection, the
left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as nearly as
practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such
direction upon the roadway being entered. (2002 Code § 10.08.230)
   D.   Turning Movements And Required Signals:
      1.   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection, a public or
private road or a driveway unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the
roadway as required by ordinance, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or
driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or
left upon a roadway, unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable
safety. No person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate
signal in the manner hereinafter provided in the event any other traffic may be
affected by such movement. (2002 Code § 10.08.280; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
      3.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal. (2002 Code § 10.08.280)
   E.   Limitations On Turning Around:
      1.   City Streets Or Highways:
         a.   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any street or highway in the city except
at an intersection; and furthermore, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle
to make such a turn at any intersection:
            (1)   Where traffic control signals are installed;
            (2)   Where a police officer is directing traffic, except at the
police officer's direction; or
            (3)   Where an official no U-turn sign has been placed and is
maintained.
         b.   When otherwise permitted, a U-turn may be made only when it can
be made in safety and without interfering with other traffic. (2002 Code §
10.08.270)
      2.   State Or Federal Highways:
         a.   It is unlawful, from and after the effective date hereof, for any
driver of an automobile or other vehicle to turn such a vehicle around so as to
proceed in the opposite direction at any point on any designated state or
federal highway within the limits of the city.
         b.   It is unlawful, from and after the effective date hereof, for the
driver of any automobile or other vehicle traveling upon any designated state
or federal highway within the limits of the city to turn such vehicle around so
as to proceed in the opposite direction by driving such automobile or vehicle
off such highway onto public or private property or driveways and driving back
onto the highway and proceeding in the opposite direction; provided, that the
provisions of this subsection E2b shall not apply to the drivers of automobiles
or vehicles stopping at private property under their ownership or in their
possession or stopping at their place of business or employment or stopping to
do business at a place of business along the highway. (2002 Code § 10.08.530)
7-4-10: DRIVER SIGNALS:
   A.   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps, except as otherwise provided in
subsection B of this section.
   B.   Any motor vehicle in use on a street or highway shall be equipped with,
and required signal shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds twenty four inches (24"), or when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of
the body or load thereof exceeds fourteen feet (14'). The latter measurement
shall apply to any single vehicle and also to any combination of vehicles.
(2002 Code § 10.08.290)
   C.   All signals herein required to be given by hand and arm shall be given
from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals
shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (2002 Code §
10.08.300)
7-4-11: RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING:
   A.   Stop When Traffic Obstructed: No driver shall enter an intersection or
a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating
without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed. (2002 Code §
10.08.390)
   B.   Obstructing Streets, Highways And Alleys: It is unlawful and an offense
for any person to place or leave any vehicle of any kind upon the public
highway, street or alley within the corporate limits of the city so as to
hinder or obstruct the free use of such highway, street, alley or thoroughfare;
provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the proper use of any
vehicle upon or along the public highways, streets or alleys of the city as
provided by city ordinance. (2002 Code § 10.08.460)
   C.   Following Too Closely: The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
for the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the
street or highway. (2002 Code § 10.08.140)
   D.   Driving On Sidewalks: The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon a
sidewalk or within any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary
driveway. (2002 Code § 10.08.470)
   E.   Backing Vehicles: The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same
unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering
with other traffic. (2002 Code § 10.08.490)
   F.   Entering Or Leaving Controlled Access Roadways: No person shall drive a
vehicle onto or from any controlled access roadway except at such entrances and
exits as are established by public authority. (2002 Code § 10.08.510)
   G.   Driving Through Safety Zone Prohibited: No vehicle shall at any time be
driven through or within a safety zone. (2002 Code § 10.08.520; amd. 2013 Code)
7-4-12: MEETING OR OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUSES:
The driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway within the city, upon meeting
or overtaking from either direction any school bus which has stopped on or
adjacent to any street or highway for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any schoolchildren and other occupants and on which the red loading signals are
in operation, is to stop his or her vehicle before reaching the school bus and
not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed past
such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for the
safety of such schoolchildren and other occupants, and this section shall be
applicable only in the event the school bus shall bear upon the front and rear
thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words "School Bus" in letters not
less than eight inches (8") in height. (2002 Code § 10.08.420)
7-4-13: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Authority To Establish And Regulate: The city council, by ordinance or
resolution, may prescribe routes through the city for the use of trucks in
general or trucks of particular kinds and/or other vehicles which are not
ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the city. (2002 Code §
10.44.010; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Signs Posted: The city shall see that appropriate and adequate signs
are placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the
designated routes.
   C.   Obedience To Signs Required: When such signs are so erected and in
place, the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route has been
prescribed, as provided in this section, while passing through the city, shall
keep on such route and shall not deviate therefrom except in case of emergency.
Drivers of such vehicles shall follow such routes so far as practicable also
when driving within the city and not merely through the city. (2002 Code §
10.44.010)
7-4-14: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No funeral, procession or parade containing two
hundred (200) or more persons or fifty (50) or more vehicles except the
military forces of the United States and the military forces of this state
shall occupy, march or proceed along any street or highway except in accordance
with a permit issued by the city manager, or his or her designee, and in
compliance with such other regulations as are set forth herein that may apply.
(2002 Code § 10.16.040; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Driving In A Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and safe. (2002 Code
§ 10.16.020)
   C.   Driving Through Processions: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in
this section. This subsection shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers. (2002 Code §
10.16.010)
   D.   Identification Of Funeral Processions: A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the
outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by such
other method as may be determined and designated by the police department.
(2002 Code § 10.16.030)
7-4-15: TOY VEHICLES:
   A.   Use Of Roadways: No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means
of any coaster, skateboard, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any
roadway except while crossing a street or highway on a crosswalk, and when so
crossing, such person shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject
to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. (2002 Code § 10.04.070; amd.
2013 Code)
   B.   Clinging To Vehicles: No pedestrian or person riding upon any bicycle,
coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same
or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway. (2002 Code § 10.48.030;
amd. 2013 Code)
7-4-16: RECKLESS, CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING:
   A.   Reckless Driving: Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner
without regard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless
driving and shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (2002 Code § 10.08.160; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Careless Or Negligent Driving: It is unlawful for any person to drive,
use, operate, park, cause to be parked or stop any vehicle in a careless or
negligent manner, or in such manner as to endanger life, limb, person or
property, or as to interfere with the lawful movement of traffic or use of the
streets or highways. (2002 Code § 10.08.170)
   C.   Squealing Tires: No driver shall either purposely or inadvertently
cause his or her vehicle to accelerate at such an excessive rate of speed so as
to spin or squeal the tires of the vehicle. (2002 Code § 10.08.150)
7-4-17: DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF INTOXICANTS:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   It is unlawful and punishable as provided in this subsection for any
person to drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
within this state who:
         a.   Has a blood or breath alcohol concentration, as defined in 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 756, of eight-hundredths (0.08) or more at the time
of a test of such person's blood or breath administered within two (2) hours
after the arrest of such person;
         b.   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         c.   Is under the combined influence of any intoxicating substance
other than alcohol which may render such person incapable of safely driving or
operating a motor vehicle; or
         d.   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any other
intoxicating substance which may render such person incapable of safely driving
or operating a motor vehicle.
      2.   The fact that any person charged with a violation of this subsection
is or has been lawfully entitled to use alcohol or a controlled dangerous
substance or any other intoxicating substance shall not constitute a defense
against any charge of violating this subsection.
      3.   As used in this subsection, the term "other intoxicating substance"
shall mean any controlled dangerous substance as defined in the uniform
controlled dangerous substances act and any other substance, other than
alcohol, which is capable of being ingested, inhaled, injected or absorbed into
the human body and is capable of adversely affecting the central nervous
system, vision, hearing or other sensory or motor functions. (Ord. 473, 7-16-
2001)
      4.   Any person who violates this subsection shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (Ord. 473, 7-16-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Persons Under Twenty One:
      1.   It is unlawful and punishable as provided in subsections B2 and B3
of this section for any person under twenty one (21) years of age to drive,
operate, or be in actual physical control of a motor vehicle within the city
who:
         a.   Has any measurable quantity of alcohol in the person's blood or
breath at the time of a test administered within two (2) hours after an arrest
of the person.
         b.   Exhibits evidence of being under the influence of any other
intoxicating substance as shown by analysis of a specimen of the person's
blood, breath, saliva or urine.
         c.   Exhibits evidence of combined influence of alcohol and any other
intoxicating substance. (Ord. 474, 7-16-2001)
      2.   a. Any person under twenty one (21) years of age who violates any
provision of this subsection shall, upon conviction, be guilty of operating or
being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence
while underage and shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (Ord. 474, 7-16-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
         b.   The court may assess additional community service hours in lieu
of any fine specified in this subsection.
         c.   In addition to any penalty imposed pursuant to the provisions of
this subsection, the person may be subject to:
            (1)   The cancellation or denial of driving privileges as ordered
by the court pursuant to 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 6-107.
            (2)   The seizure of the driver's license at the time of arrest or
detention, and the administrative revocation of driving privileges by the
department of public safety pursuant to 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 754.
            (3)   The mandatory revocation of driving privileges pursuant to 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 6-205.1, which revocation may be modified as provided
by law.
      3.   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit the filing
of charges pursuant to 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 761 or 11-902 when facts so
warrant. (Ord. 474, 7-16-2001)
7-4-18: MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Jumping On Or Off Vehicles: No person shall board or alight from any
vehicle while such vehicle is in motion. (2002 Code § 10.48.040)
   B.   Unlawful Riding: No person shall ride upon any portion of a vehicle not
designed or intended for the use of passengers. This subsection shall not apply
to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons
riding within closed truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (2002 Code
§ 10.48.050)
7-4-19: SPEEDING ON A ROADWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE OR REPAIR:
   A.   Where any city, state or federal roadway shall be under construction,
maintenance or repair, or when a detour shall have been designated by reason of
construction, maintenance or repair of a roadway, and the government having
jurisdiction has:
      1.   Determined a maximum speed during the period of the construction,
maintenance or repair; and
      2.   Plainly posted the determined maximum speed at each terminus of the
construction, maintenance or repair zone and any associated detour, and not
less than each half mile along the route thereof; and
      3.   Posted a sign notifying the public that a violation of the speed
limit in a construction, maintenance or repair zone or any associated detour
shall result in the doubling of the appropriate speeding fine;
      then no person shall drive any vehicle upon the portion of the roadway or
detour at a speed in excess of the posted speed.
   B.   Violation of the posted speed limit in a construction, maintenance or
repair zone, or in an associated detour, shall result in the doubling of the
appropriate fine, but shall in no circumstance exceed the maximum fine allowed
by state law.
   C.   For purposes of this section, “construction, maintenance or repair
zone” means any location where construction, maintenance or repair work is
actually in progress and workers are present. (Ord. 823, 11-4-2024)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Method Of Parking
7-5-2: Operation Of Vehicle During And After Parking
7-5-3: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
7-5-4: General Parking Restrictions
7-5-5: Time Limit Parking
7-5-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall
be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to
and within twenty four inches (24") of the right hand curb; provided, that
every vehicle stopped or parked upon the left hand side of a one-way street or
highway where there are adjacent curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left
hand wheels parallel to and within twenty four inches (24") of the left hand
curb. (2002 Code § 10.36.010)
   B.   Angle Parking:
      1.   Authority To Designate: The city manager shall determine upon what
streets or highways and parts of streets or highways angle parking shall be
permitted and shall have such streets or highways marked or signed. (2002 Code
§ 10.36.030; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   Obedience To Signs Or Markings: On those streets or highways which
have been signed or marked for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a
vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by
such signs or markings. (2002 Code § 10.36.040)
   C.   Parking Within Marked Spaces: In an area where parking spaces have been
marked off on the surface of the street or highway, a driver parking a vehicle
shall park it within a parking space as thus marked off, and not on or over a
line delimiting a space. (2002 Code § 10.36.050)
   D.   Brakes Set; Motor Off: Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked
vehicles. No driver of a motor vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor
running while parked. (2002 Code § 10.36.020)
7-5-2: OPERATION OF VEHICLE DURING AND AFTER PARKING:
   A.   Starting Parked Vehicle: No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing or parked unless and until movement can be made with
reasonable safety. (2002 Code § 10.08.480)
   B.   Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors: No person shall open the door of a
motor vehicle on the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is
reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any person leave a door open on the side of
a motor vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than
necessary to load or unload passengers. (2002 Code § 10.48.020)
   C.   Moving Parked Vehicle: No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully
under his or her control into any prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is unlawful. (2002 Code § 10.36.070)
7-5-3: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or ordinance or the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the
following places:
   A.   On a sidewalk.
   B.   Within an intersection.
   C.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   D.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking space
officially marked.
   E.   On a crosswalk.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   G.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   H.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
or points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless
the city indicates a different length by signs or markings.
   I.   Within ten feet (10') of the driveway entrance to any fire station and,
on the side of a street or highway opposite the entrance to any fire station,
within seventy five feet (75') of the entrance when properly signposted.
   J.   Alongside or opposite any street or highway excavation or obstruction
when stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
   K.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street or highway.
   L.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or highway or
within a street or highway underpass.
   M.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping. (2002 Code §
10.36.070; amd. 2013 Code)
7-5-4: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Obstructing Traffic; Blocking Driveways: No person shall park a vehicle
within a street or highway in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for the
free movement of vehicular traffic; and no person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle within a street or highway in such position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property. (2002 Code § 10.36.080)
   B.   Business District Alleys: No vehicles shall be parked in any of the
alleys in the business district; except, that vehicles may be parked for not to
exceed twenty (20) minutes for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise.
(2002 Code § 10.36.090)
   C.   Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited: No person shall park a vehicle
upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying the vehicle for sale.
      2.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things.
      3.   Washing, greasing, or repairing the vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (2002 Code § 10.36.100)
   D.   More Than Twenty Four Hours; Truck Parking:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle on any street or highway or in any
alley for a period of time longer than twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to park a truck of over one ton
capacity for more than three (3) consecutive hours on any street, highway or
alley in a residential area of the city.
      3.   This subsection shall not affect parking limits established for
shorter periods. (2002 Code § 10.36.120)
   E.   One-Way Roadways: In the event a street or highway includes two (2) or
more separate roadways and traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such
roadway, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of
such one-way roadway unless signs or markings are placed to permit such
standing or parking. The city council, by motion or resolution, is authorized
to determine when standing or parking may be permitted upon the left hand side
of such one- way roadway and to have signs or markings placed giving notice
thereof. (2002 Code § 10.36.130)
   F.   Spaces For Persons With Disabilities: It is unlawful for any person to
place or park a motor vehicle in any parking space on private property having
public access and where the public is invited or public property that is
designated and posted as a reserved area for parking of motor vehicles of a
physically disabled person unless such is eligible for a detachable insignia or
reflective insignia as a physically disabled person under the provisions of 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 15-112, and such insignias are displayed as provided
in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 15-112 or regulations adopted pursuant thereto,
as such may be amended. (2002 Code § 10.36.140; amd. 2013 Code)
7-5-5: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
The city manager is authorized to establish parking time limits or to prohibit
parking on designated streets or highways and parts of streets or highways by
having appropriate signs placed thereon. When such signs are in place, it is
unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in violation thereof. (2002 Code §
10.36.110; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 6
LOADING AND UNLOADING
SECTION:
7-6-1: Authority To Designate Loading Zones
7-6-2: Parking In Passenger Loading Zones
7-6-3: Parking In Freight Loading Zones
7-6-4: Permit To Back To Curb
7-6-5: Public Carrier Stops
7-6-1: AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE LOADING ZONES:
   A.   The city manager is authorized to determine the location of passenger
and freight curb loading zones, and shall have placed and maintained
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable. By the same authority, such loading
zones may be changed or discontinued. (2002 Code § 10.40.010; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   When such a loading zone is established on request of any person, the
city shall not have signs placed until the applicant has paid to the city an
amount of money established by the council to be adequate to reimburse the city
for all costs of establishing and signing the same. (2002 Code § 10.40.010)
7-6-2: PARKING IN PASSENGER LOADING ZONES:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time
other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any place
marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations
applicable to such curb loading zone are effective and then only for a period
not to exceed three (3) minutes. (2002 Code § 10.40.020)
7-6-3: PARKING IN FREIGHT LOADING ZONES:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length
of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up and
loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during
hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case
shall the stop for loading or unloading materials exceed thirty (30) minutes.
   B.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter such zone. (2002 Code § 10.40.030)
7-6-4: PERMIT TO BACK TO CURB:
   A.   The city manager is authorized to issue special permits to permit the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
(2002 Code § 10.36.060; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein. (2002 Code § 10.36.060)
   C.   The city manager may revoke such permits at any time. (2002 Code §
10.36.060; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of such permit. (2002 Code § 10.36.060)
7-6-5: PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS:
   A.   Authority To Designate: The city manager is authorized and required to
establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger
common carrier motor vehicles on such public streets or highways in such places
and in such number as it determines to be of the greatest benefit and
convenience to the public, and every such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab stand,
or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs. By the same authority,
such stops and stands may be changed or discontinued. (2002 Code § 10.40.040;
amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Bus Stops:
      1.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or highway at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided
herein.
      2.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street or
highway at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or
their baggage other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so
designated as provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
      3.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or
passenger loading zone on a public street or highway in such a manner that the
bus, when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a
position with the right front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen
inches (18") from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as
not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   C.   Taxicab Stands: The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such
vehicle upon any street or highway at any place other than in a taxicab stand
so designated as provided herein. This subsection shall not prevent the
operator of a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other
stopping or parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers. (2002
Code § 10.40.050)
   D.   Restricted Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands: No person shall stop, stand,
or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a
taxicab stand, when any such stop or stand has been officially designated and
appropriately signed; except, that the driver of a passenger vehicle may
temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any
bus or taxicab waiting to enter such zone. (2002 Code § 10.40.060)
CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Applicability Of Traffic Regulations
7-7-2: Driver Regulations
7-7-3: Right Of Way
7-7-4: Pedestrians Crossing Roadways
7-7-5: Pedestrians Walking Along Roadways
7-7-6: Soliciting Prohibited
7-7-1: APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as heretofore declared
in this title, but at all other places, pedestrians shall be granted those
rights and be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (2002 Code §
10.20.010)
7-7-2: DRIVER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (2002 Code § 10.20.100)
   B.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. (2002 Code § 10.20.020)
7-7-3: RIGHT OF WAY:
When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if need be
to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the
pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling,
or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the
roadway as to be in danger. This section shall not apply under the conditions
stated in subsection
7-7-4E2 of this chapter. (2002 Code § 10.20.020)
7-7-4: PEDESTRIANS CROSSING ROADWAYS:
   A.   Prohibited Crossings: Between adjacent intersections at which traffic
control signals are in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place
except in a crosswalk. (2002 Code § 10.20.060)
   B.   Leaving Curb Suddenly: No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or
other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so
close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. (2002 Code § 10.20.020)
   C.   Use Right Half Of Crosswalk: Pedestrians shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of crosswalks. (2002 Code § 10.20.030)
   D.   Crossing At Right Angles: No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any
place other than by a route at right angles to the curb or by the shortest
route to the opposite curb except in a crosswalk. (2002 Code § 10.20.040)
   E.   Pedestrians To Yield:
      1.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      2.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right
of way to all vehicles upon the roadway. (2002 Code § 10.20.050)
      3.   The rules in this subsection have no application under the
conditions stated in subsection
7-7-2B or section
7-7-3 of this chapter, when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain
designated places. (2002 Code § 10.20.050; amd. 2013 Code)
7-7-5: PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk
along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
a street or highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction and shall yield to the approaching vehicles. (2002 Code § 10.20.080)
7-7-6: SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride,
donation, employment, business or any other purpose from the occupant of any
vehicle. (2002 Code § 10.20.090; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 8
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
7-8-1: Compliance With State Law
7-8-2: License Plate Required
7-8-3: Dangerous, Hazardous Vehicles Prohibited
7-8-4: Obstruction To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
7-8-5: Lights
7-8-6: Horn
7-8-7: Noise Control
7-8-8: Vehicle Weight And Load
7-8-9: Seat Belts
7-8-10: Child Passenger Restraint Systems
7-8-11: Injury To Streets Or Highways Prohibited
7-8-12: Inspections
7-8-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
Every vehicle operated upon the streets or highways of the city shall be
equipped as required by law, and it is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a
street or highway of the city which is not equipped as required by law. It is
also unlawful to fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law or to
use it in a manner prohibited by law. It is also unlawful to operate a vehicle
which has equipment prohibited by law upon a street or highway of the city.
(2002 Code § 10.24.030)
7-8-2: LICENSE PLATE REQUIRED:
No person shall own or have in his or her possession within the city any
vehicle unless such vehicle shall have the current distinctive identification
and number plates assigned thereto by the Oklahoma tax commission. Such plate
shall be securely fastened to the vehicle for which issued. The plate is to be
attached to the rear of the vehicle. Both plate and all letters and numbers
must be clearly visible at all times. Such plate shall clearly indicate the
type and nature of the operation for which such vehicle shall be used, whether
for agricultural purposes, motor bus, or the transportation of persons for
purposes other than for hire or compensation. (2002 Code § 10.24.070)
7-8-3: DANGEROUS, HAZARDOUS VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed or so
loaded as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
appropriate official of the city and in accordance with the terms of such
permit. (2002 Code § 10.24.020)
7-8-4: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there are
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere
with his or her control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (2002 Code § 10.08.500)
7-8-5: LIGHTS:
   A.   Headlamps:
      1.   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motor driven cycle,
shall be equipped with at least two (2) headlamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which headlamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subsection. (2002 Code §
10.24.090)
      2.   Lights required on motorcycles and motor driven cycles shall be as
provided in subsection
7-9-7A6 of this title. (2002 Code § 10.24.090; amd. 2013 Code)
      3.   Every headlamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle
and motor driven cycle, shall be located at a height measured from the center
of the headlamp of not more than fifty four inches (54") nor less than twenty
four inches (24") to be measured from the center of such lamp or device to the
level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a load.
(2002 Code § 10.24.090)
   B.   Lighted Plates: Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole
trailer shall have either a taillamp or a separate lamp which shall be so
constructed and placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear
registration plate and render it clearly legible from a distance of fifty feet
(50') to the rear. Any taillamp or taillamps, together with any separate lamp
for illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be
lighted whenever the headlamps, clearance lamps, or auxiliary driving lamps are
lighted. (2002 Code § 10.24.080)
   C.   Use Of Lights Required: Every vehicle upon a highway within the city,
at any time from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour before
sunrise and at any other time when, due to insufficient light or unfavorable
atmospheric conditions, persons on the highway are not clearly discernible at a
distance of five hundred feet (500') ahead, shall display lighted lamps and
illuminating devices as required by state law for different classes of
vehicles, subject to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles. (2002 Code §
10.24.110; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   Glaring Light Prohibited:
      1.   No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a glaring light.
      2.   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
five hundred feet (500'), such driver shall use a distribution of light or
composite beam so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes
of the oncoming driver.
      3.   The driver of a vehicle following within two hundred feet (200') of
another vehicle shall use a distribution of light so aimed that glaring rays
are not reflected into the eyes of driver in front.
   E.   Fog Lamps: Usage of fog lights or similar lights on a motor vehicle, in
addition to the regular headlights, shall only be used when fog or similar
weather conditions exist. (2002 Code § 10.24.100)
7-8-6: HORN:
   A.   Motor vehicles operated in the city shall be equipped with a horn or
other suitable signaling device, kept in good working order, capable of
emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than
two hundred feet (200'), which shall not be sounded except when necessary for
traffic signaling or warning. (2002 Code § 10.24.120; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Unnecessary sounding of any horn or other motor vehicle signaling
device is declared to be an offense and a violation of this section. (2002 Code
§ 10.24.120)
7-8-7: NOISE CONTROL:
   A.   Muffler; Cutout; Exhaust Whistle: No motor vehicle with an internal
combustion engine shall be operated within the city unless the exhaust from
such engine is muffled by a suitable and sufficient muffler; and no muffler
cutout or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall be used on any motor vehicle while
operating within the city; except, that exhaust whistles may be used on
authorized emergency vehicles. (2002 Code § 10.24.040)
   B.   Jake Brakes; Noisy Equipment Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for the operator of any large diesel truck, such
truck being in excess of three (3) tons' GVW capacity, to utilize lower gears
for the slowing of such trucks where the use of such gears, commonly referred
to as "jake brakes", produce unusual loud engine and exhaust noise. Such loud
and unusual engine or exhaust noise shall be any noise which is louder than
such engine and/or exhaust would make during normal operating conditions.
      2.   It shall further be unlawful for the operator of any other heavy
equipment, such "heavy equipment" being defined as other than on the road
transport vehicles, to utilize their gears for the purpose of slowing vehicle
movement when the use of such lower gears creates a loud or unusual noise, such
loud or unusual noise being defined as engine and/or exhaust noise emitting at
decibels beyond normal operating conditions.
      3.   Any person or operator of such equipment who violates this
subsection shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (2002 Code § 10.48.080; amd. 2013 Code)
7-8-8: VEHICLE WEIGHT AND LOAD:
   A.   Weight Restrictions:
      1.   No vehicle, regardless of number of axles, with a maximum weight
load of forty four thousand (44,000) pounds or greater, laden or unladen
weight, shall operate within any residential neighborhood, or upon any streets
or highways within such residential neighborhood. "Residential streets or
highways" and/or "residential neighborhood" shall be defined as those streets
or highways which are not defined as arterial streets or highways and/or
section line streets, highways and roadways. (2002 Code § 10.44.020; amd. 2013
Code)
      2.   No tractor-trailer or other type of motor vehicle used to transport
loads in excess of forty four thousand (44,000) pounds shall be permitted
within areas of the city which are not zoned commercial or agricultural.
   B.   Registration Documents Required: All commercial vehicles, as defined by
the Oklahoma highway safety code, shall carry with them registration papers and
other papers of identification as required and defined by the state of Oklahoma
highway safety code. (2002 Code § 10.44.020)
   C.   Securing Load:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway or street unless
such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom; except,
that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway when used by vehicles authorized for that purpose. (2002 Code §
10.44.020; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   No person shall operate on any highway or street any vehicle with
any load unless the load and any covering thereon are securely fastened so as
to prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner
a hazard to other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders,
or other loose material susceptible to blowing or otherwise escaping shall have
such load covered so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the load from the
vehicle. (2002 Code § 10.44.020)
   D.   Exemptions: Residents of the city who are engaged in trucking as a
livelihood may park tractors (only) within otherwise restricted areas. Such
parking is allowed so long as it is on a hard, impervious surface, dust free
areas, and not upon the public right of way. Diesel powered tractors will be
permitted a maximum of five (5) minutes for startup/warmup time.
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. Each day shall constitute a separate violation. (2002
Code § 10.44.020; amd. 2013 Code)
7-8-9: SEAT BELTS:
   A.   Use Required: Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger
car operated in the city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety
seat belt system required to be installed in the motor vehicle when
manufactured pursuant to federal motor vehicle safety standard 208. For the
purposes of this subsection, "passenger car" shall mean "vehicle", as defined
in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1102(40); except, that "passenger car" shall
not include trucks, truck- tractors, recreational vehicles, motorcycles,
motorized bicycles or vehicles used primarily for farm use and licensed
pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1134.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to an operator or passenger of a
passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a written
verification from a physician licensed in this state that he is unable to wear
a safety seat belt system for medical reasons. Provided, the issuance of such
verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall
such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise,
to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety seat belt
system.
      2.   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who
is a route carrier of the U.S. postal service.
   C.   Police Authority And Restrictions: A law enforcement officer is hereby
authorized to stop a vehicle if it appears that the driver or a passenger of
the vehicle has violated the provisions of subsection A of this section and may
issue an oral warning or a citation to such driver or passenger. Provided, a
law enforcement officer may not handcuff or incarcerate any person for a
violation of this section unless the person does not sign an agreement to
appear.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (Ord. 471, 7-16-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
7-8-10: CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEMS:
   A.   Use Required:
      1.   Every driver, when transporting a child under six (6) years of age,
or weighing sixty (60) pounds or less, in a motor vehicle operated on the
roadways, streets, or highways of the city, shall provide for the protection of
said child properly using a child passenger restraint system. For purposes of
this section, "child passenger restraint system" means an infant or child
passenger restraint system which meets federal and state standards.
      2.   Children at least six (6) years of age but younger than thirteen
(13) years of age shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint
system or a seat belt.
   B.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   A nonresident driver transporting a child within the city; (Ord.
472, 7-16-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      3.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      4.   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in use;
or (Ord. 472, 7-16-2001)
      5.   The transportation of children who, for documented medical reasons,
are unable to be placed in such devices. (Ord. 472, 7-16-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Police Authority: A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to
stop a vehicle if it appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the
provisions of this section and to give an oral warning to said driver. The
warning shall advise the driver of the possible danger to children resulting
from the failure to install or use a child passenger restraint system or seat
belt in the motor vehicle.
   D.   Court Proceedings:
      1.   A violation of the provisions of this section shall not be
admissible as evidence in any action or proceeding for damages.
      2.   In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of
damages. (Ord. 472, 7-16-2001)
7-8-11: INJURY TO STREETS OR HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED:
No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street or highway shall be driven or moved upon any street or highway. (2002
Code § 10.24.010)
7-8-12: INSPECTIONS:
Police officers shall, upon reasonable cause to believe that a vehicle is
unsafe or not equipped as required by law, have authority to inspect any
vehicle upon the streets or highways of the city at any time to determine
whether it is safe, whether it is properly equipped and/or whether its
equipment is in proper adjustment and repair. (2002 Code § 10.24.060; amd. 2013
Code)
CHAPTER 9
BICYCLES, ELECTRIC ASSISTED BICYCLES, MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES, MOTORCYCLES,
MOTORIZED SCOOTERS AND MOPEDS
SECTION:
7-9-1: Application Of Provisions
7-9-2: State Traffic Laws Apply
7-9-3: Riding On Motorcycles, Motorized Scooters, Motor Driven Cycles And
Mopeds
7-9-4: Time Of Operation Restricted
7-9-5: Speed Restrictions
7-9-6: Operation By Persons Under Sixteen
7-9-7: Equipment Required
7-9-8: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
7-9-9: Riding On Bicycles
7-9-10: Operation Of Bicycles
7-9-11: Parking Bicycles
7-9-12: Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
7-9-13: Violation; Penalty
7-9-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to bicycles, electric
assisted bicycles, motor driven cycles, motorcycles, motorized scooters and
mopeds as said terms are defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes, as the same may be
amended or superseded.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or highway or upon any
path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles. (2013 Code)
7-9-2: STATE TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
   A.   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of any
vehicle regulated by this title except as to such regulations which, by their
nature, can have no application to bicycles.
   B.   No person operating any vehicle covered by this chapter shall pass
other vehicles between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction ("lane
splitting"). (2013 Code)
7-9-3: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTORIZED SCOOTERS, MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES AND
MOPEDS:
Any person operating a motorcycle, motorized scooter, motor driven cycle or
moped shall ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and
such operator shall not carry any other person nor shall any other person ride
on the vehicle unless it is designed to carry more than one person, in which
event, a passenger may ride only upon the permanent and regular seat if
designed for two (2) persons or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear
or side of the operator. (2013 Code)
7-9-4: TIME OF OPERATION RESTRICTED:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor driven cycle or a motorized
scooter on a street or highway in the city during a time when state law
prohibits the operation of such vehicle. (2013 Code)
7-9-5: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No person shall operate any motorcycle, motor driven cycle, motorized
scooter or moped at a speed greater than the speed limit provided by ordinance
of the city for automobiles or other motor vehicles nor at a speed greater than
the speed limit regularly posted for automobiles or other motor vehicles within
the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   No person shall operate any motor driven cycle at a speed greater than
thirty five (35) miles per hour.
   C.   No person shall operate any motorized scooter:
      1.   At a speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour; or
      2.   On any roadway with a posted speed limit of greater than twenty five
(25) miles per hour.
   D.   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions then existing. (2013 Code)
7-9-6: OPERATION BY PERSONS UNDER SIXTEEN:
   A.   The operation of motorcycles, motor driven cycles, motorized scooters
and mopeds within the corporate limits of the city is prohibited for persons
under sixteen (16) years of age between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
and four thirty o'clock (4:30) A.M.
   B.   In no event nor at any time shall an operator under the age of sixteen
(16) years drive a motorcycle on a street or highway which has a minimum speed
limit established and posted.
   C.   No person under sixteen (16) years of age shall operate any motorcycle,
motorized scooter, motor driven cycle or moped having an engine size greater
than one hundred twenty five (125) cc. (2013 Code)
7-9-7: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   Motorcycles, Motorized Scooters And Mopeds: The following equipment
shall be required on all motorcycles, motorized scooters and mopeds being
operated and driven in the city:
      1.   Rearview Mirrors: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his or her vehicle.
      2.   Windshield: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with a windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects; except, that in lieu of such windshield, the
operator may wear goggles or a face shield of sufficient material and design to
protect his or her eyes from foreign objects.
      3.   Brakes And Brake Light:
         a.   All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of same to stop and hold such vehicles,
including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes. One means shall be
effective to apply the brakes to the front wheel, and one means shall apply the
brakes to the rear wheel.
         b.   All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear
of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade or color
between red or amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet
(100') to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon
application of either brake system described in subsection A3a of this section.
      4.   Speedometer: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with a properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least
the maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle.
      5.   Fenders: All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped
with a fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided by the
manufacturer.
      6.   Lights: All vehicles covered under this section shall carry at least
one lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at least three
hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the same are proceeding, and one
taillamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a red light
plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the rear, and such
lights required by this subsection shall be illuminated whenever such vehicles
are in motion.
      7.   Muffler; Cutout: It shall be an offense to operate any motorized
vehicle covered under this section with the exhaust system modified so that
motor noise is increased greater than that of the original muffler provided by
the manufacturer of the vehicle.
      8.   Headgear: No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall operate
or ride upon any vehicle covered under this section unless such person is
equipped with and wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design
manufactured for use by the operators of such vehicles. All crash helmets shall
consist of lining, padding and chinstraps and be of a design so as not to
distort the view of the driver.
   B.   Bicycles:
      1.   Lights And Reflector: Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least three hundred feet (300') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type which shall be visible from distances of fifty
feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of
upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of three hundred feet (300') to the rear may be used in
addition to the red reflector.
      2.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake of sufficient
braking force that the operator is able to make the braked wheel skid on dry,
level, clean pavement. (2013 Code)
7-9-8: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to all
other vehicles unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians. (2013 Code)
7-9-9: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped by the manufacturer.
   C.   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the
handlebars. (2013 Code)
7-9-10: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
   A.   Riding On Roadways:
      1.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the
normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then
existing shall ride as near as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of
the roadway except under any of the following situations:
         a.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction.
         b.   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway.
         c.   When reasonably necessary to avoid hazardous conditions and while
exercising due care, including, but not limited to:
            (1)   Fixed or moving objects;
            (2)   Parked or moving vehicles;
            (3)   Pedestrians or animals;
            (4)   Surface hazards; or
            (5)   Any time it is unsafe to continue along the right hand curb
or edge of the roadway.
      2.   Any person riding a bicycle upon a one-way street or highway with
two (2) or more marked lanes of travel may ride as near as practicable to the
left hand curb or edge of the street or highway.
      3.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
(2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles. Persons riding two (2) abreast shall not impede the normal and
reasonable flow of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a single
lane.
   B.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The operator of a bicycle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk
or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to
all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering
the roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
   C.   Riding On Sidewalks: No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the city limits in a manner that is unsafe or disrespectful to the
rights of pedestrians. The city manager is authorized to have signs erected on
any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any
person, and when such signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
   D.   Use Of Bicycle Paths: Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been
provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not
use the roadway if required by local, municipal or county ordinances. (2013
Code)
7-9-11: PARKING BICYCLES:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street or highway other than upon the
roadway against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the
bicycle, or against a building, or at the curb in such manner as to afford the
least obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (2013 Code)
7-9-12: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
The parent or legal guardian of any child, or the guardian of any ward, shall
not authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter. (2013 Code)
7-9-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who commits any act forbidden, or fails to perform any act required,
in this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. The conviction for the violation of any offense in this
chapter shall not be recorded on the driving record of the person. (2013 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY 1
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Major Street And Highway Plan
8-1-2: Engineering Design Criteria And Standard Specifications For Public Works
Construction Adopted
8-1-3: Obstructing Public Ways
8-1-4: Sidewalk Maintenance And Repair
8-1-5: Removal Of Earth, Vegetation, Sidewalks And Supports
8-1-6: Playing In Streets
8-1-7: Liquid Flowing Onto Public Ways
8-1-8: Stormwater Conveyance And Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
Protection Requirements
 
Notes
1 1. Fees referenced in this title are on file in the offices of the community
  development department.
8-1-1: MAJOR STREET AND HIGHWAY PLAN:
   A.   Adoption Of Plan: The city planning commission and city council have
adopted a major street and highway plan for the city. The plan includes those
incorporated areas within the city limits and those unincorporated areas within
the perimeter fence line. In addition, the city planning commission and city
council have classified street types together with the standards styled
"trafficway minimum standards" and the mapping thereof.
   B.   Copies On File: Copies of the major street and highway plan are on file
in the office of the community development director and are available to the
general public upon request. (2002 Code § 12.08.010; amd. 2013 Code)
8-1-2: ENGINEERING DESIGN CRITERIA AND STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC WORKS
CONSTRUCTION ADOPTED:
The engineering design criteria and standard specifications for public works
construction are on record with the office of the community development
director in the community development department and, as current and as they
may be amended, are expressly incorporated herein by reference. (2013 Code)
8-1-3: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to use or obstruct the sidewalks of the
city in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon,
or to use or obstruct the streets or alleys of the city in any manner so as to
interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon. (2002 Code §
12.16.020)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place upon or
permit to be placed upon the streets or alleys of the city any goods, wares,
articles of merchandise, or any other obstruction, and leave the same thereon.
(2002 Code § 12.16.010)
8-1-4: SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
The owner or other person in charge of real property which adjoins a sidewalk
or sidewalk area shall keep the adjoining sidewalk or sidewalk area in good
condition and safe for pedestrian use, and it is unlawful for such owner or
person in charge to fail to do so. (2002 Code § 12.16.050)
8-1-5: REMOVAL OF EARTH, VEGETATION, SIDEWALKS AND SUPPORTS:
It is unlawful for any person to dig, remove, or carry away any earth, sand,
rock, gravel, or sod, or cut out any trees or bushes from any street, alley,
land, or other public thoroughfare, to remove any portion of any sidewalk or
any support from any sidewalk or any support from any sidewalk crossing, or to
loosen or remove any plant or other support from any culvert or bridge without
the permission of the community development director or the city engineer.
(2002 Code § 12.12.100; amd. 2013 Code)
8-1-6: PLAYING IN STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to play on the streets and alleys of the city,
except as may be authorized by ordinance. (2002 Code § 12.16.030)
8-1-7: LIQUID FLOWING ONTO PUBLIC WAYS:
It is unlawful for any person to cause or allow water, grease, or other
volatile fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk,
parking, street, alley, or other public way. (2002 Code § 12.16.040; amd. 2013
Code)
8-1-8: STORMWATER CONVEYANCE AND MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM
PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The city of Glenpool, Oklahoma, hereafter referred to in this
section as city, has been mandated to implement stormwater regulations
pertaining to illicit discharges and construction activities by federal and
state laws, rules and regulations, including the federal clean water act 33 USC
section 1251 et seq., the Oklahoma environmental quality act, 27A Oklahoma
Statutes, 2001, section
1-1-101 et seq., and stormwater regulations contained in 40 CFR part 122,
environmental protection agency (EPA) administered permit programs: the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES), and OAC section 252:
606, Oklahoma department of environmental quality (ODEQ) administered permit
programs: the Oklahoma pollutant discharge elimination system (OPDES), and
amendments thereto.
      2.   It is necessary to regulate the contributions of pollutants into the
city's municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) through prohibited
discharges, spills, construction activities, dumping, or other activities by
users thereof.
      3.   The city must implement inspection, surveillance and monitoring
procedures necessary to determine compliance and noncompliance with this
section and applicable federal and state laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   The city is required under state and federal law to obtain and
maintain an OKR04 stormwater discharge permit for the municipal separate storm
sewer system, and an OKR05 stormwater discharge permit for the sewage treatment
facility.
   B.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to promote the public
health, safety and welfare by providing a stormwater management program. The
stormwater management program is intended to:
      1.   Protect human life, health, and property.
      2.   Minimize public and private storm and flood losses from stormwater
runoff in the city.
      3.   Comply with stormwater management regulations of the EPA and ODEQ.
      4.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
stormwater.
      5.   Assure that the movement of emergency vehicles is not hindered
during storm events.
      6.   Control soil erosion and sedimentation to minimize soil deposition
in streams and other receiving water bodies and storm drainage systems.
   C.   Definitions:
    ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE: The following discharges are defined as allowable
discharges unless the administrator, as defined herein, determines that these
types of discharges, whether singularly or in combination with others, causes
contamination of surface water, stormwater or groundwater; causes overload or
damage to the city's municipal separate storm sewer system or any waterway; or
has the potential to endanger public health, safety and welfare; or causes the
city to violate any federal and/or state stormwater regulations:
Water line flushing
Landscape irrigation
Diverted stream flows
Rising groundwaters
Residential building wash waters without detergents
Uncontaminated pumped groundwater
Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration
Discharges from potable water sources
Foundation drains
Air conditioning condensate
Springs
Water from crawl space pumps
Footing drains
Lawn watering
Individual residential car washing
Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges
Street wash water
Fire hydrant flushing
Noncommercial or charity car washes
Discharges from riparian areas and wetlands
Discharges in compliance with a separate OPDES permit or NPDES permit
Discharges or flows from emergency firefighting activities provided that the
incident commander, fire chief or other on scene firefighting official in
charge makes an evaluation regarding potential releases of pollutants from the
scene and utilizes a hazardous materials response if pollutants are suspected.
   DISCHARGE: Any addition or introduction of any pollutant, stormwater, or any
other substance into the city's municipal separate storm sewer system, or into
waterways within or affecting the corporate limits of the city.
   EARTH CHANGE: Any excavating, grading, regrading, landfilling, berming or
diking of land. Earth change also includes the clearing or removal of more than
six (6) healthy trees on a parcel, or activities commonly called clearing and
grubbing.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Any activity which is directly related to
manufacturing, processing or raw materials storage areas at an industrial
facility. The term includes, but is not limited to, industrial plant yards;
access roads and rail lines used or traveled by carriers of raw materials,
manufactured products, waste material, or byproducts used or created by an
industrial facility; sites where material handling activities are performed;
refuse sites; sites used for the applications or disposal of process
wastewaters; sites used for the storage and maintenance of material handling
equipment; sites used for residual treatment, storage, or disposal; shipping
and receiving areas; manufactured buildings; storage areas, including tank
farms, for raw materials, and intermediate and finished products.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): A conveyance or system of
conveyances, including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, storm drains and all other
manner of structures, facilities or appurtenances that are owned or otherwise
operated or controlled by the city, and are designed or used for collecting or
conveying stormwater.
   PERSON OR ENTITY: An individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate, governmental entity or any other legal
entity, or their lawful representatives, agents or assignees.
   POLLUTANT: Any introduced gas, liquid or solid that makes a resource unfit
for a specific purpose. A substance that pollutes air, water, or land.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE: Defined in 40 CFR section 122.26(b)(2) as any
discharge to an MS4 or waterway that is not composed entirely of stormwater;
except discharges authorized under an OPDES permit or NPDES permit; and
discharges resulting from firefighting activities.
   STORMWATER ADMINISTRATOR: The city of Glenpool building official or his or
her designee bearing the appropriate credentials, or any other person qualified
by such credentials and designated by the city manager to function as the
stormwater administrator, hereafter referred to in this section as
"administrator".
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWP3): A comprehensive plan designed
to eliminate or reduce at the source the use, generation, or release of silt,
pollutants, hazardous substances, and hazardous wastes from entering
stormwaters.
   D.   Authority To Regulate Discharges Into The MS4: The administrator shall
be authorized to regulate, monitor and enforce all municipal ordinances, rules
and regulations regarding prohibited discharges of pollutants into the city's
MS4, including the issuance of notices of violation pursuant to subsections L3
and L4 of this section; posting of stop work orders pursuant to subsection L5
of this section, and the issuance of citations for failure or refusal to comply
with either of the foregoing. Only a city police officer may make arrests for
any violation of this section.
   E.   Discharges Into MS4:
      1.   No person or entity may intentionally cause or permit, directly or
indirectly, any contribution or introduction of pollutants through prohibited
discharges as defined in subsection C of this section into the city's MS4 or a
waterway within the city's corporate limits.
      2.   No person or entity may place, store or locate any material in such
a manner as to cause pollutants to be transported directly or indirectly by
wind, rain or other atmospheric conditions into the city's MS4 or a waterway.
      3.   No person or entity shall deposit, drain or divert, whether directly
or indirectly, into or upon any public highway, street, sidewalk, alley,
parking lot, paving, drainage ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter, creek, stream,
river, lake, pond or lagoon; any dirt, grass, leaves, oil or oily liquid,
grease, mud, sand, saltwater, sewer waste or industrial waste; or in any matter
permit by seepage, overflow or otherwise, any of such substances to escape from
any property owned, leased or controlled by such person or entity.
      4.   No industrial activity may introduce or allow, either directly or
indirectly, any prohibited discharge into the city's MS4.
      5.   Allowable discharges as defined in subsection C of this section
shall not be prohibited.
   F.   Spills: Spills that have the potential to enter or have entered the
city's MS4 shall be contained and remediation activity shall be commenced as
soon as possible. Any person or entity or industrial activity identified as the
source of any spill into the city's MS4 shall be required by the administrator
to remediate, remove and properly dispose of spilled materials. Remediation
activities shall only be considered complete when the cleanup is deemed
satisfactory to the administrator. The required reporting or notification for
such spills shall be completed as specified in subsection J of this section.
   G.   Construction Activities: All construction activities, including, but
not limited to: the development, excavation, grading, regrading, paving,
landfilling, berming or diking of land shall be conducted in such a manner as
to minimize erosion and to prevent the discharge of pollutants, including, but
not limited to: rock, sand, soil and construction materials into the city's
municipal separate storm sewer system, waterway, or public right of way.
Persons or entities conducting the construction activities shall implement and
maintain adequate structural and/or nonstructural erosion control measures for
controlling the discharge of pollutants. Any pollutants deposited on a public
street or right of way shall be immediately removed. Failure to provide
sediment and erosion control may result in suspension of earth change,
stormwater, and building permits until all violations are corrected.
   H.   Earth Change Permit: Any activity that establishes, alters, or has any
other effect on manmade or natural stormwater drainage shall require the
issuance of an earth change permit by the city as set forth in section
10-5-4 of this code. In addition to any earth change permit requirements in
section
10-5-4 of this code, each earth change permit application for construction
sites of one acre or larger shall include a detailed plan containing the
following items for controlling stormwater runoff, erosion, and protection of
public stormwater conveyances during the scope of work covered by the permit
and afterward:
      1.   Grading and erosion control plan.
      2.   Stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWP3).
      3.   Stormwater detention plans if applicable.
      4.   A copy of the approved ODEQ notice of intent (NOI) for stormwater
discharges associated with construction activities.
Issuance of an earth change permit shall not be construed to authorize:
      1.   Discharges mixed with sources of nonstormwater, whether or not they
are determined to be a significant contributor of pollutants.
      2.   Stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity.
      3.   Stormwater discharges whose direct, indirect, interrelated,
interconnected, or interdependent impacts would jeopardize a listed endangered
or threatened species or adversely modify designated critical habitat as
defined by the U.S. fish and wildlife services.
   I.   Monitoring:
      1.   The administrator shall have access to such premises as may be
necessary for the purpose of inspecting, observing, measuring, sampling and
testing, as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with the
provisions of this section.
      2.   The administrator shall have the right to perform inspections at any
industrial facility or any other premises that discharges, or has the potential
to discharge, stormwater into the city's MS4. Whenever an inspection of such
premises is made, the findings shall be recorded and a copy of the inspection
report made available upon request to the owner or person in charge of the
premises, after finalization of the inspection report.
      3.   When the administrator has reason to believe that any person or
entity or industrial facility has violated this section, the person or entity
or industrial facility may be required to obtain a sample of a discharge into
the city's MS4 and cause the sample to be analyzed, at its expense, and provide
a copy to the administrator for review.
      4.   When the administrator has reason to believe that any stormwater
discharge is a prohibited discharge, the administrator may obtain a sample and
cause the sample to be analyzed. If the administrator determines that the
discharge is a prohibited discharge, the administrator may fully recover all
costs of sampling and analysis from the person or entity or industrial
facility. When the discharge is likely to contain prohibited discharges on a
recurring basis, the person or entity or industrial facility may be required by
the administrator to conduct monitoring activities at its expense.
      5.   Upon completion of sample collections and documentation, a written
record of the sample(s) chain of custody must be completed and forwarded to the
administrator. The chain of custody form shall contain the following
information:
         a.   Name of the person(s) collecting the sample.
         b.   Date and time of sample collection.
         c.   Location of sample collection.
         d.   Name(s) and signature(s) of all persons handling the sample in
the field and in the laboratory.
         e.   Type of sampling equipment used.
      6.   Monitoring shall be conducted according to test procedures approved
under 40 CFR part 136, or amendments thereof, unless other test procedures have
been specified by the administrator.
   J.   Reporting:
      1.   Any industry that performs an industrial activity that is required
by 40 CFR part 122.26 to obtain an NPDES stormwater discharge permit from the
EPA shall submit a copy of that application and permit, any SWP3 plan, as well
as any written correspondence with any federal, state or local agency regarding
the aforementioned permit, to the administrator within fifteen (15) days of
request.
      2.   Any permits, SWP3s or other documents regarding an industry's or
construction site's OPDES stormwater discharge permit shall be made available
to the administrator upon request.
      3.   Any person or entity or industry shall, at the earliest possible
time, but in any case no later than one hour from discovery, report to the
administrator a spill, release, dumping or other situation that has
contributed, or is likely to contribute, pollutants into the city's MS4 or
other stormwater conveyance. The notification shall include the location, type,
concentration and volume if known, and corrective actions being taken. If the
spill is contained, notification of containment shall be made to the
administrator no later than the next business day. These reporting requirements
shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other reporting requirements
imposed under federal, state or local laws, rules, or regulations.
      4.   All persons or entities or industrial facilities may be required to
provide other reports deemed necessary by the administrator to monitor,
maintain and ensure compliance with this section.
   K.   Recordkeeping: Every person or entity and industry shall retain and
make available to the administrator for inspection and copying, at the person's
or entity's or industry's expense, all records and information required to be
retained under this section or order issued hereunder. The person or entity or
industry shall retain these records for a period of not less than five (5)
years. This retention period shall be extended automatically for the duration
of any litigation concerning compliance with this section, or where the person
or entity or industry has been specifically notified of a longer retention
period by the administrator or a court of competent jurisdiction.
   L.   Violations And Penalties:
      1.   Scope Of Remedies: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person or entity to violate any provision of this section or any regulation,
rule or policy established by the city pursuant to this section. The
administration or prosecution of administrative, civil or criminal penalties
under this subsection shall not prevent the city or its agents from taking any
lawful action necessary to remediate or correct a violation, including actions
to prevent future violations that would adversely affect the city's MS4 or any
waterway, or the public's health, safety and welfare.
      2.   Administrative Actions: In addition to, or in place of, any civil or
criminal penalties imposed for violations of this section, the following
actions may be undertaken by the administrator:
         a.   An earth change permit or building permit may be suspended or
revoked by the administrator if one or more of the following violations have
been committed:
            (1)   Violations of the conditions of the earth change permit or
SWP3.
            (2)   Noncompliance with correction notice(s) or stop work order
(s).
            (3)   The existence of an immediate danger to a downstream area.
         b.   In addition, pursuant to subsection L5 of this section, the
administrator may, as deemed necessary in his discretion to prevent imminent
danger to any person, property, waters of the state or water treatment
facility, issue a stop work order.
      3.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever on the basis of any information
available, the administrator has reasonable grounds to believe any person or
entity is in violation of any of the provisions of this section or of any
lawful regulation or policy adopted pursuant to this section, the administrator
shall issue a notice of violation (NOV) demanding such person or entity to
comply with such provision, regulation or policy and to cease and desist from
any activity creating such violation.
      4.   Content And Service Of NOV: Any NOV issued pursuant to subsection L3
of this section shall provide the following information:
         a.   Date of issuance;
         b.   Project name and address;
         c.   Person or owner, manager or other agent of entity to whom the
order is issued;
         d.   Earth change permit number and/or building permit number (if
applicable);
         e.   The nature of the violation (including a reference to the
applicable provisions of this section);
         f.   Specify a reasonable and prompt time for compliance not to exceed
thirty (30) days (except that in any instance in which the administrator issues
a stop work order, compliance shall be as immediate as actually possible);
         g.   Notify such person or entity of the potential penalties for
refusal or failure to comply with the NOV, including criminal actions in either
of the Glenpool municipal court or the Tulsa County district court, as
applicable; and
         h.   Signature and contact information of the administrator.
Any NOV may be served upon a person or upon an owner, manager or other agent of
any entity by either:
         a.   In hand delivery to such person or owner, manager or other agent
of any entity; or
         b.   Certified mail, return receipt requested and delivery restricted
to the addressee.
      5.   Stop Work Order: If the administrator deems such action necessary,
in his discretion, to prevent imminent danger to any person, property, waters
of the state or water treatment facility; or if a violating person or the
owner, manager or other agent of an entity is not readily available; or if a
person or entity which has been served an NOV fails or refuses to comply with
the provisions of the NOV, the administrator shall post a stop work order on
the premises. The stop work order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises. The stop work order shall cause all activity not necessary to correct
the violation to cease until the violation is corrected. The stop work order
shall provide the following information:
         a.   Date of issuance;
         b.   Project name and address;
         c.   Person or owner, manager or other agent of entity to whom the
order is issued;
         d.   Earth change permit number and/or building permit number (if
applicable);
         e.   The nature of the violation (including a reference to the
applicable provisions of this section);
         f.   Specific demand that compliance shall be as immediate as actually
possible;
         g.   Notify such person or entity of the potential penalties for
violation of the stop work order, including criminal actions in either of the
Glenpool municipal court or the Tulsa County district court, as applicable; and
         h.   Signature and contact information of the administrator.
Unauthorized removal of a stop work order shall be a violation of this section.
      6.   Citation Or Arrest Possible: If any such person or owner, manager or
other agent of any entity refuses or fails to comply with an NOV issued
pursuant to subsections L3 and L4 of this section, or a stop work order posted
pursuant to subsection L5 of this section, the administrator shall issue a
citation to such person or owner, manager or other agent of any entity
answerable in the Glenpool municipal court; or, if the penalty sought for the
alleged violation, taking into account the seriousness of the violation in the
judgment of the administrator and upon consultation with the city attorney,
shall exceed the jurisdiction of the municipal court, a police officer may make
an arrest and demand appearance in the Tulsa County district court.
      7.   Criminal Penalties: Violations of this section may be punishable in
criminal proceedings by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in the Glenpool municipal
court and not more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in Tulsa County
district court for each violation; or by imprisonment in the city jail for not
more than ten (10) days by the Glenpool municipal court or in county jail for
not more than six (6) months by the Tulsa County district court; or by both
such fines and imprisonment. Each lot or parcel of land on which a violation
occurs and each day on which a violation exists following the failure or
refusal of any person or entity to comply with an NOV issued pursuant to
subsections L3 and L4 of this section, or a stop work order posted pursuant to
subsection L5 of this section, shall constitute a separate violation, provided
that the aggregate amount of such fines shall not exceed one hundred twenty
five thousand dollars ($125,000.00) per violation and such imprisonment shall
not exceed six (6) months in the county jail. A single action that leads to
simultaneous violations of more than one provision of this section on the same
lot or parcel of land shall be treated as a single violation for each day of
its occurrence.
      8.   Decisions Of The Court: In determining the amount of any penalty to
be assessed under this subsection by either of the Glenpool municipal court or
the Tulsa County district court, pursuant to provisions of the Oklahoma
environmental quality code, at 27A Oklahoma Statutes section
2-1-101 et seq., the court shall take into account:
         a.   The nature, circumstances, extent and gravity of the violation
(s);
         b.   The violator's ability to pay;
         c.   Any prior history of such violation(s);
         d.   The degree of culpability;
         e.   The benefit of economic savings, if any, resulting from the
violation; and
         f.   Such other matters as justice may require.
      9.   Civil Action: The city attorney is authorized to commence a civil
action in the Tulsa County district court for appropriate relief, including,
but not limited to, a temporary or permanent injunction, for any violation for
which the administrator has issued an NOV or posted a stop work order, in
addition to any provisions for criminal prosecution in this section.
      10.   State Action: Any person or entity which violates any provision of
this section, or any NOV issued or stop work order posted by the administrator
shall, in addition to any other penalties prescribed by this subsection, be
subject to being reported to the Oklahoma department of environmental quality
and subject to all civil and criminal penalties provided by, and in accordance
with procedures established by, the Oklahoma environmental quality code, at 27A
Oklahoma Statutes section
2-1-101 et seq. (Ord. 711, 9-21-2015)
ARTICLE A. SIDEWALK AND DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION; EXCAVATIONS IN PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Permit Requirements
8-1A-2: Cutting Pavements
8-1A-3: Safety Devices
8-1A-4: Restoration Of Excavated Area
8-1A-5: Protection Of New Pavement
8-1A-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permits Required; Exemptions:
      1.   Sidewalk Installation: It is unlawful for any person to construct a
paved sidewalk, driveway, or other paved or permanent structure in the public
right of way without first securing a permit from the city building official to
make such construction; provided, that this requirement shall not apply to any
person repairing or replacing a sidewalk or driveway to its original condition.
(2002 Code § 12.12.010)
      2.   Excavations In Public Ways: It is unlawful for any person to cut,
alter, mutilate, or change in any manner, for any purpose, any paved or
traveled portion of any street or alley or any curb, gutter, catch basin, or
any other appurtenance of any street or alley or any sidewalk in the city
without first securing a permit from the city building official or city
engineer to make such cut, alteration or change; provided, that this
requirement shall not apply to any person repairing or replacing an existing
sidewalk in the city. (2002 Code § 12.12.020; amd. 2013 Code)
      3.   Number Of Permits: In determining the number of separate permits
required, when a sidewalk and driveway and curb cuts are to be done
contemporaneously as a unit, there need only be an application for one permit.
(2002 Code § 12.12.030)
   B.   Applications For Permits; Fee And Waiver: Any person desiring to cut,
alter, mutilate, or change in any manner, for any purpose, any paved or
traveled portion of any street or alley or any curb, gutter, catch basin, or
any other appurtenance of any street or alley, or who shall construct new
driveways or sidewalks in the public right of way shall apply to the city
building official, city engineer or community development director for a permit
therefor and pay to the city clerk the required permit fee. When the curb cut
or driveway installation or sidewalk installation is applied for at the same
time as a building permit for a new building structure, the permit fee shall be
waived for one curb cut and related driveway installation and/or sidewalk
installation. (2002 Code § 12.12.030; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Maintenance Bond Required; Exemptions: Prior to the issuance of a
permit to any person to cut any street or roadway within the city limits, such
person shall post with the city a two (2) year maintenance bond running to the
city, and to be in full force and effect beginning with the day the road or
street shall have been restored to its original condition by such applicant in
the manner required by section
8-1A-4 of this article, and the bond continuing in force for two (2) years
after the street has been accepted by the city. This bonding requirement shall
not apply to curb cuts, driveway installation and sidewalk construction where
catch basins, other special appurtenances, or overall design of the street and
alley shall not be adversely affected or substantially altered. The city
engineer is authorized to make this determination. (2002 Code § 12.12.050; amd.
2013 Code)
   D.   Issuance Of Permits: Upon payment of the fee, or as waived by the city
engineer or city building official under provisions of subsection B of this
section, the city building official or city engineer shall issue to such
applicant a permit in accordance with the application therefor.
   E.   Compliance With City Engineering Design Criteria: The city engineer
shall cause the city engineering design criteria to be enforced by rule for
purposes of this section, and the city building official or city engineer is
authorized to enforce same by revocation of the permit for noncompliance.
Reasonable notice will be given by the permit applicant to the city building
official or city engineer for inspection of forms in place prior to paving.
(2002 Code § 12.12.030; amd. 2013 Code)
8-1A-2: CUTTING PAVEMENTS:
Previous to the removal of pavement for the installation or repair of
subsurface utilities, all sides of the proposed cut shall be sawed with an
approved concrete saw to a depth of not less than one and one-half inches (11/
2"). Where it is necessary to cut paving for emergency repairs, paving may be
removed without sawing, provided any damaged sections of paving are removed
prior to making the repairs; and if it is further necessary to remove
additional paving, the sawing process shall be repeated, covering the outer
edges of the pavement to be replaced, and the replacement of all paving cut
shall be done by the applicant at his or her cost, but under the direction and
inspection of the city building official or city engineer. (2002 Code §
12.12.040; amd. 2013 Code)
8-1A-3: SAFETY DEVICES:
   A.   Required: It shall be the duty of any person doing any type of
construction or excavation work upon or adjacent to any street, alley, sidewalk
or public ground in the city, to maintain substantial guardrails and barriers
around such work or excavation in such a manner as to protect pedestrians,
animals, and vehicles using such street, alley or walk. Similar barriers shall
be placed around any materials or equipment with which contact would be
dangerous to pedestrians, animals or vehicles. It shall be the duty of all such
persons to display and maintain lighted lanterns with red globes, lights, or
lighted signal flares from sundown to sunup during the time such work,
excavation, or obstruction exists. Such lanterns, flares, or lights shall be of
a type approved by the city engineer and shall be placed on or sufficiently
near such place in a number and manner sufficient to warn the traveling public
from any direction; and if such obstruction is more than ten feet (10') long,
one of such danger signals shall be placed at each end and additional ones
placed along such obstruction not more than twenty feet (20') apart. It is an
offense for any person to fail to provide such safeguards, and each day of such
omission shall constitute a separate offense. (2002 Code § 12.12.070; amd. 2013
Code)
   B.   Damage To; Removal: It is unlawful for any person to remove or destroy
any barrier or danger signal placed or erected under the provisions of
subsection A of this section, unless such act is done at the direction of the
person in charge of such work or the city engineer. (2002 Code § 12.12.080;
amd. 2013 Code)
8-1A-4: RESTORATION OF EXCAVATED AREA:
   A.   All trenches excavated across or along any paved street or alley and
across any traveled portion of unpaved streets or alleys shall be backfilled
and compacted to the same density as the existing soil adjacent to the side of
the trench, but shall not be less than ninety five percent (95%) standard
proctor density, provided the excavated materials consist of soil that can be
readily compacted at the optimum moisture.
   B.   If the excavated material consists of a majority of clay or silt and
contains an excess of moisture, such excavated material shall be removed from
the site of the work and the trench filled with sand or other materials that
will meet the soil compaction criteria specified in this section.
   C.   In the backfilling compaction, all nonsuitable material shall be
removed and hauled from the job site and the trenches refilled with material as
specified above.
   D.   All trenches excavated along paved or unpaved streets may be backfilled
and compacted by flooding under controlled methods; provided, that an excessive
water pressure is not used and that the method of flooding to be used meets
with the approval of the city engineer.
   E.   All utility service lines on the opposite side of the street from the
main line must be in place, properly backfilled, and compacted before street
surfacing is laid. (2002 Code § 12.12.060; amd. 2013 Code)
8-1A-5: PROTECTION OF NEW PAVEMENT:
   A.   It shall be the duty of any person constructing a sidewalk, curb,
street or alley pavement in the city to place barriers around such work
sufficient to prevent any traveling upon the same until it is ready to use.
(2002 Code § 12.12.090)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to remove, displace, tear down or destroy
any barricades placed upon or along the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the
city for the protection of any pavements or sidewalks while they are in the
course of construction or before they are opened for traffic, and it is
unlawful for any person or persons to enter into or upon such street, pavement,
or sidewalk, or to permit any person or thing under their control to do so,
before such pavement, street, or sidewalk is opened for general traffic and
use. (2002 Code § 12.12.090; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Supervision
8-2-2: Rules And Regulations
8-2-3: Fees
8-2-4: Camping
8-2-5: Traffic Regulations
8-2-6: Curfew Hours For Parks
8-2-1: SUPERVISION:
   A.   Delegation Of Duties: The city manager has the primary responsibility
for parks and recreation in the city, and he or she may delegate such authority
to the community development department.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the city manager or community development
director to carry out the rules and regulations as are promulgated by the mayor
and city council and to recommend additional regulatory measures for adoption
by the mayor and city council for the orderly use of recreational facilities by
the public.
      2.   It shall be the further duty of the city manager or community
development director to recommend additional facilities to the mayor and city
council to ensure orderly development of additional recreational facilities as
the need arises. (2002 Code § 12.20.080; amd. 2013 Code)
8-2-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce such
rules, regulations, and other requirements as it deems necessary or expedient
in connection with the use of all recreational facilities owned or operated by
the city. Such rules and regulations are made a part hereof. (2002 Code §
12.20.010)
8-2-3: FEES:
The city may provide the fees charged for certain recreational privileges on
any property or facility for recreational purposes owned or operated by the
city. (2002 Code § 12.20.020; amd. 2013 Code)
8-2-4: CAMPING:
   A.   Consent Required: The use of the parks and public areas within the
corporate limits of the city for overnight camping is prohibited without the
consent of the city manager or his or her designee. (2002 Code § 12.20.030;
amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any person, firm or association using the areas
defined in subsection A of this section in a prohibited manner shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of the offense of trespass punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code, and each day shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(2002 Code § 12.20.040; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Waiver; Appeal For Waiver Of Penalty: The provisions of subsections A
and B of this section may be waived by the city manager or on appeal to the
city council at any regular or special meeting in favor of any organized group
or association, for such time as specified, not to exceed five (5) days and
nights, consecutively. (2002 Code § 12.20.050; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   Presumptive Evidence: Being on the premises of any trailer, tent, or
shelter after posted curfew hours in the areas described in subsection A of
this section shall constitute presumptive evidence of a violation. (2002 Code §
12.20.060; amd. 2013 Code)
8-2-5: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to drive any truck, automobile, motorcycle, motor
scooter, or other motor vehicle, or to ride any horse, pony or other animal in
or upon the public parks within the limits of the city except upon clearly
defined public roadways or public parking areas in such parks or except in
cases of public interest when authorized and directed to do so by the city
manager or community development director. (2002 Code § 12.20.070; amd. 2013
Code)
8-2-6: CURFEW HOURS FOR PARKS:
The city manager shall approve park curfew hours, and parks shall be posted
accordingly. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Trimming Required; Height Above Public Ways
8-3-2: Damage To Trees And Shrubs Prohibited
8-3-1: TRIMMING REQUIRED; HEIGHT ABOVE PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street or public right of way
within the city shall trim all trees and shrubbery growing within the street or
public right of way within the city in such a manner that the boughs or limbs
thereof will not obstruct free and convenient passage and travel along
sidewalks, streets, and alleys. When such premises is occupied by some person
other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the
same manner as hereinbefore required of the owner. Such trees and shrubbery
shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or foliage will not be lower than
nine feet (9') above the roadway of a street or alley, nor lower than eight
feet (8') above the sidewalk. (2002 Code § 12.24.010; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses, or neglects to trim trees and
shrubbery as provided in subsection A of this section, after receiving five (5)
days' notice from the city manager, community development director or city
engineer to do so, shall be guilty of an offense against the city. Every day on
which the owner or occupant fails, refuses, or neglects to trim such trees or
shrubbery after the expiration of the five (5) days' notice shall be a separate
offense. (2002 Code § 12.24.020; amd. 2013 Code)
8-3-2: DAMAGE TO TREES AND SHRUBS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a public
street or alley in the city; provided, that this section shall not prohibit the
lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (2002 Code §
12.24.030; amd. 2013 Code)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-1-1: Administrative Officials
9-1-2: Application For Service; Contract Established; Fees And Costs
9-1-3: Deposit Required
9-1-4: Service To Premises
9-1-5: Meters
9-1-6: Service Lines
9-1-7: Curbcock Keys
9-1-8: Extension Of Mains
9-1-9: Fire Protection Service
9-1-10: Mandatory Rationing Of Water
9-1-11: Rates And Charges
9-1-12: Discontinuance Of Service; Reconnection
9-1-13: Pollution Of Water Supply; Cross Connection Control
9-1-14: Inspection Credentials
9-1-15: Tampering With, Damage To System
9-1-1: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS:
The city clerk, or a designated representative, shall have charge of all
ordinary financial operations of the water system as a business enterprise,
including billing and collection of fees for taps, materials, line extensions,
water deposits, water usage, penalties, and any other monies payable to the
city in the ordinary financial operations of the water system; together with
the keeping of proper accounts. (2002 Code § 13.04.010; amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-2: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; CONTRACT ESTABLISHED; FEES AND COSTS:
   A.   Application For Service: Any person, firm or corporation desiring to
connect a premises with the water supply system of the city shall make
application therefor at the utility service department office. The application
shall contain the location of the premises where such water is to be used and
such other reasonable information as the utility service department may
require. The tap charge in effect at time of application must be paid at the
time the application is made, and no work will be started by the city until the
same is done. (2002 Code § 13.04.020; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Contract Established: The application for water service shall be
considered a contract with the city and the person making the application
agrees:
      1.   To pay for the water consumed at the time the water is consumed.
      2.   To recognize the right of the city to change the rate at any time.
      3.   To recognize the right of the city to temporarily discontinue water
service at any time without notice to the consumer, to install, repair or
remove a water meter, or for any other proper cause.
      4.   That the contract is subject to all ordinances in effect at the time
of making the contract and which may be passed and become effective thereafter.
      5.   That the city shall not be responsible for damage by water or other
cause resulting from defective plumbing or otherwise.
      6.   That the fact an agent of the city has inspected any such plumbing
shall not be pleaded as a basis for recovery in case of damages to the premises
from defective plumbing installed by the owner or occupant of such premises.
      7.   That the city shall not be liable for damages resulting from the
interruption or failure of the supply of water, regardless of the cause
thereof; and that such failure shall not be held to constitute a breach of
contract on the part of the city nor relieve the consumer from performing the
obligations of his or her contract. (2002 Code § 13.04.030; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Fees And Costs:
      1.   Meter Installation And Connection Fees: Any person, firm, or
corporation desiring water service from the city and having made application
for such water service at the utility service department office shall pay to
the utility service department office the applicable meter setting and
connection or utility service tap fee. (2002 Code § 13.04.060; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   Substantial Distance From Water Main; Responsibility For Costs:
Where the premises to be connected is over one hundred feet (100') from the
city water main, the applicant for service shall pay the entire cost of
installing the pipe any additional distance to the property to be served,
provided the designated service has been approved by the utility service
department. (2002 Code § 13.04.070; amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-3: DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
A water utility deposit, on file in the offices of the utility service
department, is required. (2002 Code § 13.04.040; amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-4: SERVICE TO PREMISES:
No premises shall be allowed more than one service connection unless for good
cause shown and upon approval by the director of community development or city
engineer. Every separate premises supplied water by the city must have its own
separate service connection and meter with the city main, and the premises so
supplied shall not allow water to be supplied to any other premises. (2002 Code
§ 13.04.080; amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-5: METERS:
   A.   Required: It is unlawful for a plumber or any other person to make a
connection to or use water from the city water system until a meter has been
set. All meters installed by the city shall belong to the city. (2002 Code §
13.04.110)
   B.   Installation: All water meters shall be set and connected to the city
mains by employees or contractors of the city. (2002 Code § 13.04.050; amd.
2013 Code)
   C.   Damaged Meters; Estimation Of Bill: In all cases where meters or boxes
are lost, injured, or broken by wilful action or as a result of carelessness or
negligence of owners or occupants of premises, the same shall be replaced or
repaired at the expense of the owner or occupant. In case of nonpayment, the
water shall be cut off and shall not be turned on until such charges are paid.
In the event a meter becomes out of order or fails to register properly, the
consumer shall be charged on an estimated basis by the city based on the
average monthly consumption during the last three (3) months the meter was in
good condition or from what the utility service department may determine to be
the most reliable data available. (2002 Code § 13.04.130; amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-6: SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Specifications; Installation: All water service lines connected with
the city water system shall be standard PVC pipe, schedule 40 or greater,
including two inches (2") in diameter. All pipes shall be installed not less
than two feet (2') below the surface of the ground; except, in streets where
the grade is already established, the pipes shall be installed at least three
feet (3') below the established grade. (2002 Code § 13.04.120; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Maintenance:
      1.   Public Lines: All public water service lines between the main and
the meter shall be maintained by and at the expense of the city. If a meter is
not set at the end of the initial service line, the service lines and
connections between the end of the initial service line and the meter shall be
maintained by the city. (2002 Code § 13.04.100; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   Private Lines: All private service lines shall be maintained by and
at the expense of owner. When the utility service department notifies the owner
of a leak in his or her private line, the owner shall have the same repaired
immediately, and in case of failure to do so within a reasonable time, such
user's service may be cut off until the line has been repaired. (2002 Code §
13.04.140; amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-7: CURBCOCK KEYS:
The city community development director or city building official may permit
any licensed plumber to have a service key, which he or she shall keep in his
or her possession, and with which he or she may shut off the curbcock for the
purpose of making repairs on the premises. No person other than a licensed
plumber shall use this key, and plumbers shall leave a curbcock in the
condition in which it was found. (2002 Code § 13.04.150; amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-8: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
   A.   General Requirements: All public or private water main extensions must
first be approved by the city engineer and state department of environmental
quality. A plat must be filed with the city engineer showing the exact location
of extensions, size of line that is proposed to be installed, and the number of
consumers that the line is to serve. No line smaller than four inches (4")
shall be considered as a public water main. The city may alter the plans of any
proposed extensions that are to be connected with the water system of the city,
and they shall be constructed subject to inspection by the city engineer or
designated representatives from the community development department. When a
main extension has been approved, permitted, installed and tested to the
satisfaction of the city, it shall become a part of the city system and will be
owned, operated and maintained by the city, and the city shall have full
authority to operate same as any other part of the system under existing
ordinances. The city shall be absolved of all personal or property damage
during the time of construction, and the contractor installing the extension
shall file proper bond and insurance to the satisfaction of the city engineer.
   B.   Outside City Corporate Limits: Where a water main extension is
requested outside the city corporate limits (but within the fence line) by any
person, firm or corporation, the policy set out in subsection A of this section
will be in effect, with the following exception: The city may require the party
making the request to enter into a PFPI contract with the city prior to the
time of construction if the city approves the main extension. The city shall
have full authority over such construction.
   C.   Specifications: All material used in any water main extension shall
meet city engineering design criteria and technical specifications.
   D.   Street Surfacing: All water lines and connections must be in place
before any street surfacing is constructed.
   E.   Fee For Testing: All water supplied for the purpose of flushing,
pressurizing, or otherwise testing new water lines shall be charged at the
prevailing retail rate.
   F.   Inspections: Inspections requested by contractors and builders after
working hours and on weekends and holidays may be provided by the city,
however, in addition to the normal inspection fee, the inspection charge will
be based on the hourly rate of the inspector at two (2) times the base hourly
rate. (2002 Code § 13.04.210; amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-9: FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE:
   A.   Service Regulations: Water service for fire protection shall be fitted
for such fixtures as are needed for fire protection and shall be entirely
separate from those used for other purposes. (2002 Code § 13.04.180; amd. 2013
Code)
   B.   Interference With Fire Hydrants Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person not duly authorized by the city
community development director, city engineer, or a member of the city fire
department to open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to,
or connect anything with any fire hydrant or service line or connection
belonging to the city.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant
in any manner whatsoever.
      3.   It is unlawful to park within fifteen feet (15') of any fire
hydrant.
      4.   Any person violating any provision of this subsection shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for the offense of tampering or damage to public utilities
and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by the governing body
as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (2002 Code § 13.04.200; amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-10: MANDATORY RATIONING OF WATER:
For the purpose of mandatory water rationing, the city is required to and shall
abide by the terms of its contract for water purchases from the city of Tulsa.
(2013 Code)
9-1-11: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Responsibility For Rates And Charges: All service charges for water
shall be paid by the applicant or consumer. (2002 Code § 13.04.220; amd. 2013
Code)
   B.   Separate Services: When more than one building of any kind, apartment
or more than one residential or single-family living area in any building is
served through one water meter, each such building, apartment or residence
shall be deemed a separate water service, and a separate minimum charge shall
be made therefor and collected by the utility service department. In any such
case, such minimum charge shall be the regular minimum charge at the current
rates in effect at the time of billing. (2002 Code § 13.04.230; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Rates And Charges Established:
      1.   Service Rates: Service rates shall be as established by the city
council. (2013 Code)
      2.   Turn Off And Reconnection Charges:
         a.   In case water service to a customer is cut off because of failure
to pay a water bill, all charges applicable to disconnecting or reconnecting
service shall be assessed against and paid by the consumer.
         b.   In cutting water off to a customer, sufficient notice will have
been given by mail to the consumer on record being furnished water, and a
cutoff notice will be hung on the door of the premises. (2002 Code § 13.04.260;
amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-12: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; RECONNECTION:
   A.   When water service has been discontinued at any premises by application
of the owner thereof or for the nonpayment of water charges or for any other
cause, it is unlawful for any person to again connect such premises with water
service except when authorized to do so by the city. When water is so
reinstated without such authority, the city utility service department may turn
off the water at the main, or remove a portion of the service connection at the
cock; and if the water was turned on by the consumer or by his or her
authority, he or she shall be charged the actual cost of discontinuing and
reinstating the water supply. (2002 Code § 13.04.170; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Should any water consumer cease to be a water consumer by reason of
leaving the premises served, and be indebted to the city for water and/or other
utilities charges in any amount, and should the same consumer again become a
user of water or seek again to have a water connection, the utility service
department shall enforce collection for any sum due the city for such charges
not having been paid, and refuse the connection until all such claims are paid.
(2002 Code § 13.04.090; amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-13: POLLUTION OF WATER SUPPLY; CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   A.   Pollution Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to deposit excrement or foul or decaying matter in, or in any
manner to corrupt, any reservoir or other source of water used for domestic
purposes, or to aid or abet in any such act. (2002 Code § 13.04.250)
   B.   Cross Connection Control:
      1.   No service connection shall be allowed to any city water mains for
any premises supplied by water from any other source unless the city utility
service department grants permission. The city utility service department may
terminate such permission at any time. The city utility service department
shall have power to prescribe reasonable regulations for the use of water from
another source on premises having a connection with the water system. (2002
Code § 13.04.190; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to cause a
connection to be made or to allow one to exist for any purpose whatsoever
between the city water supply and any other supply upon his, her or its
premises, and where another supply exists upon any premises, the owner shall be
required to make a customer's declaration of nonexistence of cross connection
upon a form supplied by the city before he, she or it shall be permitted to
obtain or continue to use water from the city water system.
      3.   City water service shall be discontinued from any premises upon
which there is found to be a connection between the city water supply and
another water supply, and such service shall not be restored until such cross
connection has been discontinued. (2002 Code § 13.04.190)
9-1-14: INSPECTION CREDENTIALS:
   A.   Officers, employees and contractors of the city, whose duty it may be
to enter upon private premises to make inspection of pipes and fixtures or
attachments used in connection with the city water lines, shall be provided
with a badge or other credential to identify them as officers, employees or
contractors of the city. Any officer, employee or contractor of the city shall,
upon presentation of his or her badge or other credential provided in this
subsection, have free access at all reasonable hours to any premises supplied
with city water for the purpose of making any inspection of a water connection
or line upon the premises. In case any city employee or contractor of the city
is refused admittance to any premises or is prevented from making such
inspection, the city utility service department may cause the water service to
be discontinued at the premises forthwith.
   B.   No person who is not an officer, employee or contractor of the city
shall have, wear or exhibit any badge or credentials of the city. It shall be
the duty of every officer, employee or contractor of the city, upon resignation
or dismissal from the city, forthwith to surrender and deliver to the city all
badges and credentials of the city in his or her possession. (2002 Code §
13.04.160; amd. 2013 Code)
9-1-15: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGE TO SYSTEM:
It is unlawful for any person, unless duly authorized by the city utility
service department, to disturb, displace, interfere with, cover up, damage or
destroy any water mains, water pipes, meter box, machinery, tool, building,
fire hydrant, curbcock, curb box, or any other property belonging to, connected
with, or under control of the municipal water supply system of the city. (2002
Code § 13.04.130; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER SERVICE SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
9-2-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
9-2-4: Construction Of Sewage Facilities
9-2-5: Building Sewers And Connections
9-2-6: Use Of The Public Sewers
9-2-6-1: Discharges Into System
9-2-6-2: Interceptors
9-2-6-3: Control Manhole
9-2-6-4: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
9-2-7: Damage To, Tampering With System
9-2-8: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
9-2-9: Violations; Penalties
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in parts per
million by weight.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet
(5') outside the inner face of the exterior building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
DIRECTOR: The director of community development of the city of Glenpool, or his
or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
normal domestic strength sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface water or groundwater.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PRIVATE SEWER: A sewer in which an owner has the rights, and is not controlled
or maintained by the city.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by a public trust authority.
PUBLIC SEWERAGE FACILITIES: All structures, underground piping, and
appurtenances normally associated with the construction and operation of a
sanitary sewerage collection system owned and operated by a public or
governmental entity for the benefit of areas within the municipal corporate
limits.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface
water, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing
of sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries stormwater and surface water
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (2002 Code § 13.12.010; amd. 2013 Code)
9-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It is unlawful for any person to
place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public
or private property within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectional waste.
   B.   Treatment Required: It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as provided herein, it is unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owners of all houses,
buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purpose, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or
right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary sewer of the city, are required at their expense to install
suitable toilet facilities therein. If an existing private sewage disposal
system is in use and is not operating properly (as determined by the Tulsa
County health department or Oklahoma department of environmental quality
[ODEQ]), the owner shall be required to connect such facilities directly with
the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
within ninety (90) days after the date of official notice by the city to do so;
provided, that the public sewer is within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the
house, building or structure used for human occupancy, employment, recreation
or other purpose. If an existing private sewage disposal system is in use and
is operating satisfactorily (as determined by the Tulsa County health
department or ODEQ), the owner will not be required to connect such facilities
to the public sewer. However, the owner of any structure connected to a private
sewage disposal system, provided the structure is located with two hundred
fifty feet (250') of a public sewer, shall be required to pay the normal sewer
user charge (based on metered water usage), regardless of whether he or she
elects to tie on to the public sewer or to continue using a properly operating
sewage disposal system. (2002 Code § 13.12.020; amd. 2013 Code)
9-2-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available under the provisions of section
9-2-2 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section. (2002
Code § 13.12.030)
   B.   Permit Requirements: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the
ODEQ. A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the ODEQ.
   C.   Specifications: The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the ODEQ. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any public sewer or
natural outlet. (2002 Code § 13.12.030; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
city.
   E.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required: At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage
disposal system, as provided in section
9-2-2 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material. (2002 Code § 13.12.030)
   F.   Additional Regulations: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the ODEQ. (2002 Code § 13.12.030; amd. 2013 Code)
9-2-4: CONSTRUCTION OF SEWAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, company, corporation, institution, or other
municipality shall let a contract or contracts for, or commence the
construction of any sanitary sewerage system, extensions, or sewage facilities,
either in whole or in part, or place or permit to be placed or discharge or
permit to flow into the existing city sanitary system any sewage, unless the
person, company, corporation, institution or other municipality has first
obtained a written permit to construct signed by the city community development
director and issued by the ODEQ.
   B.   Application For Plumbing Permit: The application for authorization to
connect to the city sewer facilities shall be made by written request to the
city community development department and shall be supplemented by complete
plans, specifications, engineering reports, and other such information as is
deemed necessary by the city community development department and the ODEQ.
   C.   State Requirements:
      1.   Two (2) or more copies of the plans, specifications, engineering
report, permit application, and other pertinent information shall be forwarded
by the city to the ODEQ for review, approval, and the issuance of a permit for
construction as required by state law.
      2.   Plans and specifications forwarded to the ODEQ shall be accompanied
by an application for permit to construct (ODEQ form no. 534), properly
executed and signed by the responsible city official where the city plans to
accept the new sewerage facilities upon completion of construction. In the
event the city does not plan to accept responsibility for the facilities after
construction has been completed, the application for permit to construct must
be signed by the party or parties who will be responsible for the upkeep and
maintenance of the proposed sewerage facilities.
   D.   Inspections And Approval: A plumbing permit to connect any new sanitary
sewerage system, extensions or sewerage facilities to existing sewerage
facilities shall not be issued until the new installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the director of community development and city engineer, and is
in accordance with the requirements of the ODEQ. The director of community
development or city engineer shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit to construct
shall notify the director of community development or city engineer when the
work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are
covered. (2002 Code § 13.12.040; amd. 2013 Code)
9-2-5: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written plumbing permit from the
community development department.
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer plumbing permits: a) for residential and commercial services;
and b) for service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either
case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city. The plumbing permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the community development department.
      3.   Permit, Inspection And Tapping Fees:
         a.   Permit, inspection and tapping fees are on file in the offices of
the community development department.
         b.   Should any major sewer line extensions be constructed in the
future, there shall be a plumbing tapping fee required for any person with a
structure able to be served by the extension. Said plumbing tapping fee is on
file in the offices of the community development department.
   B.   Separate Building Sewer Service: A separate and independent building
sewer service shall be provided for every building; except, that where one
building stands at the rear of another or an interior lot and no private sewer
is available or can be constructed in the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer service from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer service.
   C.   Use Of Existing Building Sewers: Existing building sewers may be used
in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and
testing, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Construction Requirements: All construction shall be in accordance with
the plumbing code currently being observed and enforced by the city.
   E.   Liability For Costs And Expenses; Indemnification: All costs and
expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer
service shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer service. (2002 Code § 13.12.050; amd. 2013
Code)
9-2-6: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
9-2-6-1: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.   Stormwater And Surface Waters; Storm Sewers:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the community development
director or city engineer. Industrial cooling waters or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, upon approval of the community development director
or city engineer, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
wastes to any public sanitary sewer:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F);
      2.   Any waters or wastes which may contain more than one hundred (100)
parts per million, by weight, of fat, oil, or grease;
      3.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      5.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sanitary sewers or
other interference with the proper operation of the sanitary sewage works;
      6.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sanitary sewage works;
      7.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sanitary sewage treatment plant;
      8.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle, process,
treat, or disinfect such materials at the sewage treatment plant;
      9.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      10.   Any salts of the heavy metals, in solution or suspension, in
concentrations toxic to biological wastewater treatment processes, or adversely
affecting sludge digestion or any other biochemical, biological, or other
wastewater treatment process, or to the biota of the receiving stream to which
the effluent of wastewater treatment facility discharges, or exceeding the
following, the analytical results to be expressed in terms of the elements
indicated:
Toxic Substances mg/l
Toxic Substances      mg/l
Arsenic               0.1
Barium                1.0
Boron                 1.0
Cadmium               0.2
Chromium (hexavalent) 0.1
Chromium (total)      2.0
Chromium (trivalent)  1.0
Copper                0.4
Lead                  0.1
Manganese             1.0
Mercury               0.01
Nickel                1.0
Selenium              0.05
Silver                0.05
Zinc                  0.6
 
or other elements which will damage collection facilities, or are detrimental
to the treatment processes, or are detrimental to the biota of the receiving
stream to which the effluent of the wastewater treatment facility discharges;
      11.   Any cyanides or cyanogen compounds capable of liberating
hydrocyanic gas or acidification in excess of 0.8 milligram per liter as CN in
the wastes from any outlet into the public sanitary sewers;
      12.   Any radioactive materials exceeding the existing standards of the
ODEQ, or unless they comply with the atomic energy commission act of 1954 (part
20, subpart D - waste disposal, subsection 20.303, of the regulations issued by
the atomic energy commission, or amendments, thereto);
      13.   Any wastewaters containing phenols or other taste producing
substances in such concentrations as to produce odor or taste in the effluent
or to affect the taste and odor of the receiving waters; nor any phenols in
excess of 0.1 milligram per liter.
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   Review And Approval Required: Admission into the public sewers of
any waters or wastes: a) having a five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand
greater than two hundred fifty (250) parts per million by weight; or b)
containing more than two hundred fifty (250) parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or c) containing any quantity of substances having the
characteristics described in subsection B of this section; or d) having an
average daily flow greater than two percent (2%) of the average daily sewage
flow of the city shall be subject to the review and approval of the director of
community development and city engineer.
      2.   Preliminary Treatment:
         a.   Where necessary, in the opinion of the director of community
development, the owner shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary
treatment as may be necessary to: 1) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to
two hundred fifty (250) parts per million and the suspended solids to two
hundred fifty (250) parts per million by weight; or 2) reduce objectionable
characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits provided in
subsection B of this section; or 3) control the quantities and rates of
discharge of such waters or wastes.
         b.   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information
relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for
the approval of the director of community development, the city engineer and
the ODEQ, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said
approvals are obtained in writing.
         c.   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
efficient operation by the owner at his or her expense. (2002 Code § 13.12.060;
amd. 2013 Code)
9-2-6-2: INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the director of community development or city engineer, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, and other harmful
ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the director of community development and city engineer
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. (2002 Code § 13.12.060; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
   C.   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times. (2002 Code § 13.12.060)
9-2-6-3: CONTROL MANHOLE:
When required by the director of community development or city engineer, the
owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes
shall install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the director of community development or city
engineer. The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at his or her expense,
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times. (2002 Code § 13.12.060; amd. 2013 Code)
9-2-6-4: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in subsections
9-2-6-1B and C of this chapter shall be determined in accordance with "Standard
Methods For The Examination Of Water And Sewage", and shall be determined at
the control manhole provided for in section
9-2-6-3 of this chapter, or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole.
In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole
shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to
the point at which the building sewer is connected. (2002 Code § 13.12.060)
9-2-7: DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sanitary sewage works. Any person
violating this section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. (2002 Code § 13.12.070; amd. 2013 Code)
9-2-8: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
The director of community development or city engineer and other duly
authorized employees or contractors of the city, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (2002 Code § 13.12.080; amd.
2013 Code)
9-2-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
9-2-7 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. (2002 Code §
13.12.090)
   B.   Fine: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in subsection A of this section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of
an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (2002 Code § 13.12.090; amd.
2013 Code)
   C.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (2002 Code § 13.12.090)
ARTICLE A. SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Base And Unit Rates
9-2A-2: Additional Charges
9-2A-3: Computation Of Charges
9-2A-4: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
9-2A-5: Records Kept
9-2A-6: Periodic Review And Revision
9-2A-7: Conflicting Provisions
9-2A-8: Enforcement
9-2A-1: BASE AND UNIT RATES:
   A.   Rates Established:
      1.   Water-Metered Users: All users and potential users of the
municipally owned or operated wastewater treatment system with access to a
public sewer (structure within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the public
sewer) and that are connected to metered water usage shall be charged a minimum
base rate (for any, or no, usage up to the first one thousand (1,000) gallons
of water usage) as established by the city council.
      2.   Non-Metered Users: In the case of users not on a metered basis, the
director of community development or city engineer shall establish estimated
water consumption based on a comparison of the non-metered user with a metered
user of similar class. Example: A non-metered family of four (4) will be
compared to a typical family of four (4) with a water meter to establish water
consumption.
      3.    Summer User Charges: Where separate water meters are utilized for
lawn sprinkling (or watering) only, the water usage from these meters will be
excluded from a sewer user charge.
   B.   Residential And Commercial User Charges Determined By Water Usage: For
residential and commercial users, the sewer user charge (above the base rate
provided by subsection A.1.) shall be based on their water usage for each
additional one thousand (1,000) gallons per month.
   C.   Notice Of User Rate: Each user shall be notified at least annually, in
conjunction with the regular bill, of the sewer use rate.
(Ord. 698, 6-15-2015; amd. Ord. 775, 6-1-2020)
9-2A-2: ADDITIONAL CHARGES:
   A.   Excessive Strength Surcharge: For any user, when the BOD exceeds two
hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) 1 , the suspended solids exceeds
two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) 2 , or when other pollutants
in normal domestic sewage, a surcharge shall be added to the basic charge.
(2002 Code § 13.12.120)
   B.   Toxic Pollutants Charge: Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants
which cause an increase in the cost of management of the effluent or the sludge
of the treatment works shall pay for such increased costs. (2002 Code §
13.12.140)
   C.   Sewer Treatment Plant Development Or Development Impact Charge: A sewer
treatment plant development or development impact charge shall be applied to
the building permit fees for any and all subdivisions not presently platted
within the city limits. This charge shall be established by the city council.
All monies received from these charges shall be dedicated for improvement and/
or expansion of the wastewater treatment plant facility and associated
appurtenances. (2002 Code § 13.12.200; amd. 2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Maximum limit for average domestic waste.
2 2. Maximum limit for average domestic waste.
9-2A-3: COMPUTATION OF CHARGES:
A. User Charge: As the BOD, suspended solids and other pollutant concentrations
discharged shall be approximately equal for all domestic users, users shall be
charged on a volume basis in accordance with the following formula:
   Cu = Cb + Ct/Vt(Vu)
(Based on model #1, 40 CFR 35, appendix B)
Where:
 
Cu = A user's charge per unit of time.
Cb = A user's base minimum charge (for debt retirement, billing,
     administration, etc.) per unit of time.
Ct = Total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of time.
Vt = Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time. (May include
     extraneous flows.)
Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
 
(2002 Code § 13.12.110)
B. Excessive Strength Surcharge: The excessive strength surcharge shall be
calculated by the following formula:
   Cs = [Bc(B) + Sc(S) + Pc(P)] Vu
(Based on model #2, 40 CFR 35, appendix B)
Where:
Cs = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength.
Bc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD).
B  = Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level.
Sc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids (SS).
S  = Concentration of SS from a user above a base level.
Pc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant.
P  = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level.
Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
 
(2002 Code § 13.12.120)
9-2A-4: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Rendition Of Bills: Users will be billed on a monthly basis with
payment due by the tenth of each month. Users on metered water service will be
billed on the same notice as water charges, and wastewater service will be
designated as a separate entry. Users of the wastewater system not on metered
water service will be billed monthly on an individual notice for wastewater
service at the rate established by the utility service department.
   B.   Notice Of Delinquency: Users with delinquent accounts will be notified
in writing by the utility service department that water and/or wastewater
services will be terminated unless the account is paid in full. (2002 Code §
13.12.190; amd. 2013 Code)
9-2A-5: RECORDS KEPT:
A recordkeeping system shall be established and maintained by the city to
document compliance with federal regulations pertaining to this article. (2002
Code § 13.12.170)
9-2A-6: PERIODIC REVIEW AND REVISION:
This article may be periodically reviewed regarding the wastewater contribution
of users and user classes, the total costs of the operation and maintenance of
the treatment works, and its approved user charge system. The charges for users
or user classes shall be revised to accomplish the following: (2002 Code §
13.12.130; amd. 2013 Code)
   A.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes.
   B.    Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including replacement)
of the treatment works. (2002 Code § 13.12.130)
9-2A-7: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
The user charge system shall take precedence over any terms or conditions or
agreements or contracts between the city and any of the users which are
inconsistent with applicable federal regulations regarding user charge systems.
(2002 Code § 13.12.180)
9-2A-8: ENFORCEMENT:
The utility service department shall utilize the police department and
community development department to assist as required in the control and
management of the user charge system. (2002 Code § 13.12.190; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL, COLLECTION AND RECYCLING
SECTION:
9-3-1: Short Title
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Exclusive Right Of City
9-3-4: Duty To Request Solid Waste Removal And Recycling Service
9-3-5: Recycling Mandatory
9-3-6: Accumulation Of Solid Waste Prohibited; Use Of Containers Required
9-3-7: Container Requirements
9-3-8: Frequency Of Collections; Rates And Charges
9-3-9: Nuisance Declared
9-3-10: Violations; Penalty
9-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL, COLLECTION
AND RECYCLING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 736, 5-15-2017)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DISPOSABLE SOLID WASTE: All solid waste, other than recyclable solid waste.
GARBAGE: Disposable solid waste consisting of vegetable, fruit or animal
organic waste product common to kitchens, pantries and dining rooms and of such
a character and proportion as to cause obnoxious odors or to attract or provide
food for birds, animals or vermin.
RECYCLABLE SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Components of solid waste that can be collected, separated, or
processed and returned to the economic mainstream in the form of materials or
products including, but not limited to the following:
      1.   Cardboard, newspaper, magazines, graded paper, mixed office paper,
wood;
      2.   Clear and brown- or green-colored glass;
      3.   Durable and non-durable plastics, including plastic polyethylene
terephthalate (PET, PETE#1) and high-density polyethylene (HDPE#2), and
polypropylene (PP #5);
      4.   Metals, including aluminum, copper, steel, bi-metals and ferrous
metals; and
      5.   Any other materials or substances identified as recyclable by the
City Manager.
   B.   Recyclable solid waste does not include: styrofoam; garbage; batteries;
light bulbs; yard waste; ceramics; window glass; drinking glasses; plastic
bags; toys; garden hoses; electronics; clothing; paint; lubricants; hazardous
waste, as defined by Federal and State regulations to include waste that poses
substantial or potential threat to public health or the environment.
RUBBISH: Solid waste commonly accumulated by housing residents; including glass
and broken ware, discarded clothing, trash, tin cans, bottles, and papers, tree
limbs, leaves, grass and weed cuttings properly contained or bundled as
described herein.
RUBBLE: Dirt, rocks, ashes, debris resulting from construction, reconstruction
or repair of buildings, and other earthen, wooden or metal materials larger
and/or heavier than rubbish.
SOLID WASTE: Comprehensive term used categorically to include all garbage,
rubbish, rubble and trash, as those terms are defined in this section and as
understood in common usage, however generated. For purposes of this section,
solid waste includes "disposable solid waste" and "recyclable solid waste".
TRASH: Solid waste consisting of wastepaper, broken ware, discarded shoes and
clothing, tin cans, bottles, grass cuttings, shrub trimmings, paper boxes and
cartons, and floor sweepings from residential dwelling units. (Ord. 736, 5-15-
2017)
9-3-3: EXCLUSIVE RIGHT OF CITY:
The City reserves to itself the exclusive right and privilege of the
collection, removal and disposition of all solid waste within the corporate
limits of the City, either by contracting with a suitable person or entity for
such services or by performance of these functions by employees of the City,
either method to be at the discretion of the City Council. In the event the
City Council elects to direct these functions to be performed by City
employees, the City Council is hereby empowered to acquire suitable trucks and
other equipment for the collection and removal of solid waste from the
corporate limits of the City. In the alternative, the City Council has the
power to contract with private persons or entities to collect, remove and
dispose of such solid waste in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter. (Ord. 736, 5-15-2017)
9-3-4: DUTY TO REQUEST SOLID WASTE REMOVAL AND RECYCLING SERVICE:
To assist in maintaining the general sanitation and health of the City, it
shall be the duty of every person occupying or having control of the occupancy
of any residential premises located on a regularly established solid waste
collection route to notify the Municipal Utility Service Department at the
beginning of such occupancy and request, accept and use the City's solid waste
pick-up and collection service, whether performed by a private licensed solid
waste collector or by the City through its employees and agents, and by such
request and/or accepted use, the applicant shall grant such collector or City a
license to come upon the premises for the purpose of removal of solid waste;
provided that failure of any owner, rental agent or occupant of such premises
to make such request shall not prevent nor in any way impair or impede the City
from adding the address of such premises to the Municipal solid waste
collection records and providing such service and otherwise enforcing, by
appropriate action, the regulatory measures herein prescribed and causing the
fee or charge therefor to be paid. Such charges may become a lien upon the
property upon the City Clerk filing a certified statement of same with the
County Clerk's Office and may be enforced as other liens. (Ord. 736, 5-15-2017)
9-3-5: RECYCLING MANDATORY:
It shall be mandatory for all owners, tenants, or occupants of residential
premises to separate recyclable solid waste from all other solid waste.
Recyclable solid waste shall be deposited separately and apart from other solid
waste generated by such persons and shall be placed separately at the curb in a
manner and on such days and times as may be established herein, by regulations
promulgated by the City Manager or his designee or by contract. (Ord. 736, 5-
15-2017)
9-3-6: ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE PROHIBITED; USE OF CONTAINERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner, occupant or other person in charge of any
lot, tract of ground or other premises in the City to allow any solid waste to
accumulate thereon; or to permit water or other substances susceptible to
putrefaction, whether animal, fruit or vegetable or other organic material, to
so accumulate as to cause an offensive odor to be emitted therefrom or to cause
a condition dangerous to the health of any person.
   B.   No person shall deposit or place any solid waste in any alley, street
or other public place within the City, nor shall any person deposit or place
such substances upon private property, whether owned by such person or not,
within the limits of the City, unless the same shall be enclosed in a suitable
container. (Ord. 736, 5-15-2017)
9-3-7: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specifications And Number:
      1.   The standard solid waste container required by this chapter, whether
for disposable or recyclable solid waste, shall be a receptacle of not more
than ninety five (95) gallons in capacity, capable of holding impervious
material and of sturdy construction, with a tightly fitting cover, equipped
with at least two (2) handles properly spaced to facilitate handling, unless
otherwise provided by the City or the contractor, if services are contracted.
      2.   If one (1) container is not sufficient to hold the quantity of solid
waste accumulated between collections, enough additional containers shall be
provided by the City at a cost to be determined by the City Manager or his
designee.
      3.   Additional solid waste removal service is available for those
customers who are participating in basic solid waste removal service. Such
additional solid waste removal service shall provide that each customer, in
addition to the poly cart service for disposable and recyclable solid waste,
shall be entitled to simultaneous pick-up of up to three (3) additional bags.
More than three (3) additional bags must be obtained at the customer's cost
from the City or the contractor, if services are contracted. The basic solid
waste disposal and recycling fee shall be increased for the additional service
by an amount established by the City Manager or his designee or the contractor,
if services are contracted.
   B.   Location Of Containers:
      1.   Disposable and recyclable solid waste containers shall be located
consistently at a single place on each premises, which place shall be easily
accessible to the street or alley from which the collections are made. All
containers not accessible from an alley and that have to be reached from the
street must be set back at least twenty five feet (25') from the curb except on
days of collection. Containers located inside of buildings must be accessible
to collectors. The City reserves the right to refuse to collect solid waste
containers which are not easily accessible and do not meet the requirements of
this chapter.
      2.   Disposable and recyclable solid waste containers shall not be
located directly under downspouts or eaves, or any other location susceptible
to deluge by water. (Ord. 736, 5-15-2017)
9-3-8: FREQUENCY OF COLLECTIONS; RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Collection Frequency: Disposable and recyclable solid waste shall be
collected from each residence at least once each calendar week. When scheduled
pick-up falls on a holiday, containers will be picked up on the next regularly
scheduled pick-up day.
   B.   Rates And Charges: Rates and charges for residential collection
services shall be as established by the City Manager or his designee, or by
contract, and shall be published in the City's master fee schedule. (Ord. 736,
5-15-2017)
9-3-9: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Fermenting, putrefying or odoriferous garbage in containers uncollected or
dumped in the open due to failure to provide adequate containers or pay the
collection service fee as provided herein, or to improper placement or
maintenance of containers, shall be declared a nuisance subject to enforcement
as set forth in title 6 of this Code and section
9-3-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 736, 5-15-2017)
9-3-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby or
declared to be a nuisance, an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who fails to
do any act required by any such provisions, or who fails to do any act when any
such provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor, or who violates or fails or refuses to carry out any lawful order
of the City made pursuant to provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code and as set forth in the Municipal bond schedule adopted by
the Governing Body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   B.   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to subsection A of this section
shall interfere with the right of the City also to apply to the proper courts
of the State for an injunction, writ of mandamus or other appropriate action
against such person or entity in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 736, 5-15-
2017)
ARTICLE A. COLLECTORS OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
9-3A-1: License Required; Vehicle Condition
9-3A-2: Insurance Requirements
9-3A-3: License Fee; Nontransferability Of License
9-3A-4: Display Of License; Windshield Sticker
9-3A-5: Additional Vehicle Requirements
9-3A-6: Revocation Of License
9-3A-7: Violations
9-3A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; VEHICLE CONDITION:
The City, through the City Clerk, may license any responsible person, firm or
corporation who may have been approved by the City Council to engage in the
business of collecting, removing and disposing of refuse, but no such license
shall issue except when the equipment proposed to be used shall have been
inspected and approved by the City Police Department as to its mechanical
condition and operation, and thereafter, such equipment must be kept maintained
and in such state of repair comparable with that of vehicles of the City. (2002
Code § 8.32.110)
9-3A-2: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No license shall be issued for any vehicle or conveyance to be used in
collecting, removing, transporting or disposing of refuse until the owner of
such vehicle or conveyance shall file with the City Clerk an insurance policy
issued by an insurance company licensed and admitted to do business in the
State of Oklahoma, providing liability insurance coverage for each such vehicle
with a coverage of at least five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for the injury or
death of any one (1) person, ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for the injury
or death of any number of persons in any one (1) accident and five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) for property damage in any one (1) accident, and insurance
coverage to be effective whether the vehicle or conveyance was, at the time of
any accident, being operated, driven or controlled by the owner, his agent,
servant, employee, lessee or licensee.
   B.   The policy shall further provide that it may not be canceled until
after ten (10) days' written notice to the City Clerk. The cancellation of any
policy shall in no way affect or terminate any liability arising prior to the
effective date of such cancellation. If the owner shall fail within the ten
(10) days to provide another policy of like kind, then the license provided for
herein shall terminate and shall be of no effect.
   C.   The policy shall further provide that the insurance company agrees to
pay any final judgment for personal injuries, including death, resulting
therefrom, or damage to property, caused by any and all vehicles or conveyances
operated by the insured pursuant to licenses issued for hauling refuse by the
City, within the limits set forth in the policy, and further agrees that upon
its failure to pay any such final judgment, the judgment creditor may maintain
an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel such payment. (2002
Code § 8.32.110; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   Nothing contained in the policy or any endorsement thereon, nor the
violation of any of the provisions thereof by the assured, shall relieve the
company from liability hereunder or from the payment of such judgment.
   E.   The policy shall further provide for a continuing liability thereunder
to the full amount thereof notwithstanding any recovery thereon.
   F.   The policy shall further provide that neither insolvency nor bankruptcy
of the insured shall relieve the insurance company from the payment of any
claim or judgment. (2002 Code § 8.32.110)
9-3A-3: LICENSE FEE; NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
   A.   There is fixed as a license fee as established by resolution of the
City Council for each trash hauling conveyance or vehicle of any type
whatsoever. Each license fee shall be payable on or before July 1 of each year
in advance, and such licenses issued shall not be transferable. (2002 Code §
8.32.110; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Where a license for a trash hauling vehicle or conveyance is issued
between July 1 and December 31 of each year, the full amount of such license
fee shall be paid for the issuance of such license, and where a license fee for
a trash hauling vehicle or conveyance is issued between January 1 and June 30
of each year, the fee to be paid for the issuance of such license shall be one-
half (1/2) the annual license fee therefor. (2002 Code § 8.32.140; amd. 2013
Code)
9-3A-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE; WINDSHIELD STICKER:
   A.   In all cases where licenses have been issued, such licenses shall be
attached to the vehicle or vehicles used for such purpose, or shall be in the
possession of the person rendering such service, but in either event, they
shall be subject to inspection at all times.
   B.   Each license issued shall be accompanied by a numbered windshield
sticker of a distinct color, which color shall be changed annually. Failure to
display the windshield sticker shall subject the violator to the penalties
provided for violation of any provision of this article. (2002 Code § 8.32.110;
amd. 2013 Code)
9-3A-5: ADDITIONAL VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Closed Or Covered Vehicles: All vehicles used in the collection,
removal or transportation of refuse and trash by licensed collectors shall be
constructed in such a manner as will prevent any portion of such refuse from
leaking, spilling, falling or blowing out of such a vehicle onto any public
highway, street, avenue, alley or other public place, and all such vehicles
shall at all times, except when being loaded or unloaded, be completely and
securely covered so that no part of the contents thereof shall be, at any time,
exposed to view.
   B.   Inspection: All such vehicles shall, at all times, be subject to
inspection by the police department or any of its assistants, who may prevent
the use of the same until same is put in such condition as will comply with the
provisions of this article. (2002 Code § 8.32.130)
9-3A-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right to revoke the license for any vehicle or conveyance for just causes,
as may be determined by the city council, is expressly reserved. (2002 Code §
8.32.110; amd. 2013 Code)
9-3A-7: VIOLATIONS:
It is declared a violation of this article for any person, firm or corporation
to collect, remove, or transport any refuse within the city, for gain, unless
such person, firm or corporation has a valid, unrevoked license from the city;
and it is declared to be a violation of this article for any person, firm or
corporation to use any vehicle or conveyance for the collection, removal,
transportation or disposal of refuse, for gain, within the city, unless such
vehicle or conveyance has been inspected and approved as provided herein. (2002
Code § 8.32.120; amd. 2013 Code)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Applicability; Definitions
10-1-2: Building Permit
10-1-3: Certificate Of Occupancy Required
10-1-4: Construction Times
10-1-5: Conditions Of Site During Construction
10-1-6: Registration Of Contractors
10-1-7: Application For Registration
10-1-8: Transfer Of Registration Prohibited
10-1-9: Update Of Information Required
10-1-10: Registration Fee And Renewal
10-1-11: Revocation Of Registration
10-1-12: Penalties
10-1-13: Liability Of City
 
Notes
1 1. Fees referenced in this title are on file in the offices of the community
  development department.
10-1-1: APPLICABILITY; DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the
meaning ascribed to them by this section. All terminology used in this title,
and not specifically defined herein, shall retain its meaning in conformance
with applicable publications of the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) or its successor body or, if not defined therein, the latest volume of
Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary.
 
APPLICANT:         A person in the process of applying for a permit under this
                   title.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: A person authorized by the city manager to perform the
                   duties prescribed in this title.
                   A person that has a license approved by the state who
                   performs work to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
CONTRACTOR:        move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any building,
                   structure, plumbing, electrical, or mechanical work in the
                   city.
PERSON:            Any individual, corporation, or other legal entity.
REGISTRATION:      The process of obtaining a license to perform work as a
                   contractor in the city.
                   Any building, facility or dwelling of any nature or design,
STRUCTURE:         and it is the intent to give the broadest interpretation to
                   the meaning of the term. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
 
10-1-2: BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   Building permits required. No structure shall be erected, moved, added
to, enclosed, or structurally altered without a permit therefor, unless the
building official approves an exemption from this requirement in writing and
issued by the building official. No building permit shall be issued by the
building official except in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Application for building permit. All applications for building permits
shall be accompanied by plans drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and
shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes and locations on a lot of
buildings already existing, if any; and the location and dimensions of the
proposed building or alteration. The application shall include such other
information as lawfully may be required by the building official, including
existing or proposed building or alteration; existing or proposed uses of the
building and land and such other matters as may be necessary to determine
conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of, this title. One copy of
the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the building official, after
they shall have marked such copy either as approved, approved with stated
conditions, or disapproved and attested to same by their signature on such
copy. The original and one copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be
retained by the building official for the state or local required retention
period.
   C.   Expiration of building permit. If the work described in any building
permit has not begun within six calendar months from the date of issuance
thereof, said permit shall expire; it shall be cancelled by the building
official; and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected,
together with notice that further work as described in the cancelled permit
shall not proceed unless and until a new building permit has been obtained.
Failure by the building official to provide such written notice shall not
influence the expiration of a building permit.
   D.   Permit fees: The fees for plan review and permits shall be as set forth
in the current, separately published fee schedule authorized by this code.
   E.   Refund of fee: In the event a person has paid a building permit fee as
provided in this title, including for a plumbing, electric, mechanical or other
related permits, and requests a refund thereof prior to any inspections being
done for the reason that he or she wants to abandon the permit and not pursue
construction, then all but twenty five percent (25%) of the fee shall be
refunded. Any amount paid at the time of application for plan review will not
be refunded once the application is in review. The twenty five percent (25%)
retained shall cover costs of processing the permit. If any inspections have
been made, then no portion of the fee will be refunded. Further, no fee will be
refunded if requested more than six (6) months after application for the
permit. The application for refund shall be made to the building official.
(Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-1-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of
any structure, or part thereof created, erected, changed, converted, or wholly
or partly altered or enlarged in its use or purpose until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued therefor by the building official stating that
the proposed use of such structure conforms to the requirements of this title.
      1.   When a permit is issued for building a new structure, altering any
portion of an existing structure, or building an addition to an existing
structure, a certificate of occupancy must be issued upon completion of the
work before use or occupancy of the structure will be permitted. The
certificate of occupancy shall be issued only in conformity with the provisions
of this title.
      2.   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued by the building
official for a period not exceeding 3 months during alterations or partial
occupancy of a building pending its completion, provided that said temporary
certificate may include such conditions and safeguards as will protect the
safety of the occupants and/or the public.
      3.   The building official shall maintain a public record of certificates
of occupancy in compliance with state and local retention requirements.
      4.   Failure to obtain a certificate of occupancy prior to use or
occupancy shall be a violation of this title and punishable under this title.
   B.   Construction and use to be as provided in applications, plans, permits,
and certificates of occupancy. Building permits or certificates of occupancy
issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the building official
authorize only the use, arrangement, or construction set forth in such approved
plans and applications, and no other use, arrangement, or construction shall be
allowed. Use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that authorized
shall be deemed a violation of this title and punishable as provided by this
title.
   C.   Certificates of occupancy required for use or change of use.
      1.   Certificates of occupancy shall be required for the following:
         a.   Occupancy and use of a structure erected or structurally altered.
         b.   Change in use of an existing structure to a use of a different
classification.
         c.   Change in the use to a different classification.
         d.   Change in a nonconforming use if adding square feet to a
structure.
      2.   No such use, or change of use, shall take place until a certificate
of occupancy therefor shall have been issued by the building official.
   D.   Eating/drinking establishments. Where the structure is to be used as an
eating or drinking establishment, or for any such purpose as to come within the
supervision of the Tulsa County Health Department, the building official shall
not issue a certificate of occupancy until prior approval or clearance has been
given by the health department.
   E.   Contents of a certificate of occupancy:
      1.   The building permit number, if applicable, the address, name and
contact information of owner or owner’s representative;
      2.   A description (floor plan) of the portion of the structure for which
the certificate is being issued;
      3.   The edition of the currently adopted, applicable construction code,
as adopted pursuant to chapter 2 of this title, under which the permit was
issued;
      4.   The use and occupancy, in accordance with the provisions of the
applicable construction code;
      5.   Type of construction as defined in currently adopted construction
code;
      6.   The design occupant load;
      7.   Whether an automatic fire sprinkler system is provided;
      8.   A statement that the described structure has been inspected for
compliance with the requirements of the currently adopted construction code for
the structure and type of occupancy and use for which the proposed occupancy is
classified;
      9.   Any special stipulations or conditions of the building permit;
      10.   Any additional information deemed necessary by the building
official to process the certificate of occupancy may be required.
   F.   Revocation: The building official is authorized to, in writing, suspend
or revoke a certificate of occupancy issued under the provisions of this title
wherever the certificate has been issued in error, or is based on incorrect
information supplied, or where it is determined that the structure or portion
thereof is in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions
of this title. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-1-4: CONSTRUCTION TIMES:
   A.   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms have
the meanings described below:
 
              Includes inside or outside new construction, remodeling, rehabilitation, and
              demolition of a structure; the term also includes any on-site or off-site
              improvements (including but not limited to grading, excavation, landscaping,
CONSTRUCTION: paving, and similar activity). Delivery and loading/unloading of materials or
              equipment is considered “construction” for the purposes of this section if
              said activities involve use of a forklift, dump truck, backhoe, or other
              similar heavy equipment.
              Any event, circumstance or set of facts that presents a threat of imminent
EMERGENCY:    personal injury or damage to property and warrants an immediate response to
              secure the safety of such person or property.
UTILITY       Any person, firm or corporation legally providing electricity, natural gas,
SERVICE       telephone, cable television, internet, water, sewer, or any other such item or
PROVIDER:     service for use by the general public.
 
   B.   Restrictions on times of construction; penalty.
      1.   On weekdays, construction may not take place after 8:00 p.m. or
before 7:00 a.m.
      2.   Construction on Saturday and Sunday shall not take place after 6:00
p.m. on Friday or Saturday or before 9:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday
      3.   Construction in violation of the restrictions created by subsection
(1) or (2), above, is declared to be a nuisance if it results in loud and
raucous noise occurring inside the corporate limits of the city and is
punishable as such under title 6, chapter 5 of this code.
   C.   Exceptions.
      1.   Permit. Construction may be lawfully conducted outside the times
defined by this section if the person performing the work obtains a valid
after-hours construction permit issued by the city manager or his or her
designee in writing. To be valid, the permit must identify the persons or
entities authorized to perform the construction, list the dates and times on
which construction may be conducted outside of the times set forth by this
section, and briefly describe the type of construction to be performed. Said
permit must be displayed upon demand by any peace officer or city
representative. Issuance of permits under this subsection is generally limited
to circumstances where compliance with the construction time restrictions set
forth in subsection (b) of this section would result in an undue hardship or
when construction is required due to an emergency. Determinations of undue
hardship shall be made in the discretion of the city manager or his or her
designee in accordance with guidelines developed by the city manager, but
exceptions will generally be limited to cases of urgent necessity in the
interest of public health and safety.
      2.   Certain entities exempt. The construction restrictions created by
this section shall not apply to city or county, state, or federal government
entities, or agents thereof, or to public works projects being performed on
behalf of such public entities. Utility service providers may also conduct
construction outside of the restrictions provided by this section if the
construction being performed is to restore or maintain services to existing
customers but shall not be exempt from application of this section for
construction activity to expand services to additional customers or include
additional products or services.
      3.   Emergency construction. It is a defense to prosecution for a
violation of this section that the construction was necessary to prevent or
mitigate an emergency.
      4.   Construction in public rights-of-way. This section does not apply to
construction in public rights-of-way when a valid construction permit has been
issued for such construction. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-1-5: CONDITIONS OF SITE DURING CONSTRUCTION:
Before any construction activity begins on any project beyond the excavation of
foundation footings, the property being constructed upon shall have the
following:
   A.   A portable temporary sanitary toilet facility. Two side by side homes,
under construction may share one facility. The rating shall not exceed ten
workers, with regular servicing.
   B.   A street address prominently displayed at the front of the property and
plainly visible from the street.
   C.   A construction debris and trash container (four feet by four feet
minimum size). It must contain the debris and trash. Open fencing material will
not be allowed.
   D.   No on-site trash or debris burning will be allowed.
   E.   Developments must have a specific and approved concrete wash out
station.
   F.   All Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan measures/erosion control
protection must be in place prior to and during construction. Appropriate
erosion control measures must be installed as necessary for silt containment.
   G.   All excavations three feet in depth or more must have temporary fencing
or warning tape fully around the area for fall prevention if excavation is left
unattended.
   H.   No construction dirt, sand, supplies or material may be left on the
street at any time during construction. It must be left up on the job site.
(Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-1-6: REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or business
entity in the business of contracting services which require, by state or local
law, a license to perform work to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any structure, including plumbing,
electrical, mechanical, irrigation work in the city, unless such person, firm,
corporation or business entity is the holder of a valid registration with the
city. Such person, firm, corporation, or business entity shall be herein
designated “applicant” or “registrant.”
   B.   In extending the rights and privileges of such registration, the city
makes no statement of the technical competency of those so registered, and no
manner of license is proffered.
   C.   No permit to perform work on any structure, plumbing, mechanical,
electrical, irrigation, or signage shall be issued to any person, firm,
corporation, or business entity without prior registration.
   D.   Exception: Property owners performing work on their primary residence
and approved by the building official, shall be exempt from the registration
requirements. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-1-7: APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION:
An application for registration under this tile shall provide to the office of
the building official the following information:
   A.   The complete name, mailing address, and telephone number of the person,
firm, corporation, or entity making application; if the application is for a
firm, corporation or business entity, there must be provided the name and
private mailing address of a principal of the firm, corporation or business
entity who is authorized to bind the firm, corporation, or business entity in
legal agreements. Each applicant must also provide the names of all employees
authorized to obtain permits.
   B.   A copy of the applicant’s valid license, issued by the appropriate
state board or agency with the authority to issue licenses for that trade.
   C.   Proof of liability insurance in the amount of at least $300,000.00 or a
bond in the amount of at least $300,000.00; per claim and per project.
   D.   Any other information deemed necessary by the building official. (Ord.
796, 12-13-2021)
10-1-8: TRANSFER OF REGISTRATION PROHIBITED:
No registrant shall for any purpose allow its registration, by name or any
other identification, to be transferred to, assigned to, or in any manner
directly or indirectly used by, any person, firm, corporation, or business
entity other than the one to whom the registration was issued. (Ord. 796, 12-
13-2021)
10-1-9: UPDATE OF INFORMATION REQUIRED:
If a change occurs in the information previously provided on an application,
the registrant shall provide written notice of the updated information to the
chief building official within 30 days of the change. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-1-10: REGISTRATION FEE AND RENEWAL:
The fees for registration shall be as set forth in the current, separately
published fee schedule authorized by this code and shall be submitted for each
registration. Registration shall expire annually on the same date each year.
The fee for renewal shall be the same as for the initial registration. Late
registrations may be prorated based on months left to annual renewal. No
permits will be issued to a contractor whose registration has expired.
Inspections may not be done for contractors with expired registrations. (Ord.
796, 12-13-2021)
10-1-11: REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION:
A registrant’s privileges may be revoked, temporarily or permanently, for
providing false or misleading information; failure to provide updated
information within thirty days of such change; failure to obtain licensure from
the appropriate agency having licensing authority; suspension of licensure;
transferring or allowing another person, firm, or corporation to use the
registration; failure to maintain a certificate of liability insurance;
conviction of two violations of this code or any ordinance of the city within a
12-month period; or for any conviction of illegal dumping. (Ord. 796, 12-13-
2021)
10-1-12: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, corporation, or business entity violating this title shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
accordance with the general penalty provisions of this code and as set out in
the municipal bond schedule, unless otherwise specifically set forth in this
code. Each continuing day’s violation under this title shall constitute a
separate offense. The penal provisions imposed under this title shall not
preclude the city from filing suit to enjoin the violation. The city retains
all legal rights and remedies available to it pursuant to local, state, and
federal law. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-1-13: LIABILITY OF CITY:
Neither the city nor any authorized agent acting under the terms of this title
shall be liable or have any liability by reason of permits issued or work done
in compliance with the terms of this title. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
CHAPTER 2
CONSTRUCTION CODES AND STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Building Code
10-2-2: Residential Code
10-2-3: Energy Conservation Code
10-2-4: Plumbing Code
10-2-5: Mechanical Code
10-2-6: Fuel Gas Code
10-2-7: Electrical Code
10-2-8: Fire Code
10-2-9: Existing Building Code
10-2-10: Swimming Pool And Spa Code
10-2-11: Property Maintenance Code
10-2-12: Conflicts In The Code
10-2-13: Appeals
10-2-1: BUILDING CODE:
   A.   The 2018 edition of the International Building Code (“IBC”) has been
adopted. Copies of the IBC and amendments thereto are on file in the office of
the city clerk and said code is incorporated herein by reference and designated
as the building code of the city, the same as though such code were copied in
its entirety herein.
   B.   The city council has adopted the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code
Commission amendments, including local fire code and building code adoptions to
said amendments. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-2: RESIDENTIAL CODE:
   A.   The 2018 edition of the International Residential Code (“IRC”) has been
adopted. Copies of such edition of the IRC and amendments thereto are on file
in the office of the city clerk and said code is incorporated herein by
reference and designated as the residential code of the city, the same as
though such code were copied in its entirety herein.
   B.   Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission with local amendments.
Appendices V, W, X, or Y have not been adopted.
   C.   Chapter 11 of the 2018 edition of the IRC and amendments thereto have
been adopted. Copies of such edition of the IRC and amendments thereto are on
file in the office of the city clerk and said code is incorporated herein by
reference and designated as the energy conservation code of the city, the same
as though such code were copied in its entirety herein.
   D.   Section R313.2 has been amended to adopt the Oklahoma Uniform Building
Code Commission amendment and by not adopting Appendix V. One and two-family
dwelling automatic fire systems.
   E.   Local Amendment: (N1102.4.1.2) Mandatory thermal envelope leak testing.
The building official will perform visual energy compliance inspections only.
Third party testing will be approved to meet this requirement with submitted
documentation.
   F.   Local Amendment: (N1103.3.3) Mechanical duct testing. The building
official will perform visual energy compliance inspections only. Third party
testing will be approved to meet this requirement with submitted documentation.
   G.   If testing will not be done by a third party, because of unknown air
infiltration rate from unusually tight construction, it shall be assumed that
make up air must be achieved to meet the requirements of R303.4, M1503.6 and
M1505.4, using outside air and shall utilize a gravity damper in the outside
air to ensure it only functions when the mechanical ventilation system is in
operation in compliance with M1503.6.
   H.   Table N1102.1.2 (R402.1.2) is amended as listed in table (K) below.
   I.   A total UA alternative will be accepted in lieu of meeting Table
N1102.1.2 if it meets the code requirements of section N1102.1.5 (R402.1.5).
Documentation must be provided.
   J.   N1102.2.3 (R402.2.3) Eave Baffles are required at eave vents that could
be blocked by insulation.
   K.   
TABLE N1102.1.2 (R402.1.2)a
INSULATION AND FENESTRATION REQUIREMENTS BY COMPONENT
Climate Zone                             3
Fenestration U-Factor b                  0.32
Skylight U-Factor                        0.55
Glazed Fenestration SHGC                 0.25
Ceiling R-Value                          38
Wood Frame Wall R-Value c, d, e, f, g, h 15 or 13 + 2h
Mass Wall R-Value i                      8/13
Floor R-Value                            19
Basement Wall R-Value                    5/13
Slab R-Value & Depth                     0
Crawl Space Wall R-Values                5/13
 
   a.   R-values are minimums. U-factors and SHGC are maximums. Where
insulation is installed in a cavity that is less than the label or design
thickness of the insulation, the installed R-value of the insulation shall be
not less than the R-value specified in the table.
   b.   The fenestration U-factor column excludes skylights. The SHGC column
applies to all glazed fenestrations.
Exception: In Climate Zones 1 through 3, skylights shall be permitted to be
excluded from glazed fenestration SHGC requirements provided that the SHGC for
such skylights does not exceed 0.30.
   c.   “10/13” means R-10 continuous insulation on the interior or exterior of
the home or R-13 cavity insulation on the interior of the basement wall. “15/
19” means R-15 continuous insulation on the interior or exterior of the home or
R-19 cavity insulation on the interior of the basement wall. Alternatively,
compliance with “15/19” shall be R-13 cavity insulation on the interior of the
basement wall plus R-5 continuous insulation on the interior or exterior of the
home.
   d.   R-5 insulation shall be provided under the full slab area of a heated
slab in addition to the required slab edge insulation R-value for slabs. as
indicated in the table. The slab edge insulation for heated slabs shall not be
required to extend below the slab.
   e.   There are no SHGC requirements in the Marine Zone.
   f.   Basement wall insulation shall not be required in warm-humid locations
as defined by Figure N1101.10 and Table N1101.10.
   g.   Alternatively, insulation sufficient to fill the framing cavity
providing not less than an R-value of R-19.
   h.   The first value is cavity insulation, the second value is continuous
insulation. Therefore, as an example, “13+2” means R-13 cavity insulation plus
R-2 allowed for structural exterior sheathing in accordance with R402.2.7
(N1102.2.7) continuous insulation.
   i.   Mass walls shall be in accordance with Section N1102.2.5. The second R-
value applies where more than half of the insulation
(Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-3: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
   A.   Residential requirements are listed in section
10-2-2 above.
   B.   2018 International Energy Conservation Code for commercial
construction.
   C.   Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission with local amendments. (Ord.
796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-4: PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   The 2018 edition of the International Plumbing Code (“IPC”) has been
adopted. Copies of the IPC and the amendments thereto are on file in the office
of the city clerk and said code is incorporated herein by reference and
designated as the plumbing code of the city, the same as though such code were
copied in its entirety herein.
   B.   Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission with local amendments. (Ord.
796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-5: MECHANICAL CODE:
   A.   The 2018 edition of the International Mechanical Code (“IMC”) has been
adopted. Copies of the IMC and the amendments thereto are on file in the office
of the city clerk and said code is incorporated herein by reference and
designated as the mechanical code of the city, the same as though such code
were copied in its entirety herein.
   B.   Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission with local amendments. (Ord.
796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-6: FUEL GAS CODE:
   A.   The 2018 edition of the International Fuel Gas Code (“IFGC”) has been
adopted. Copies of the IFGC and the amendments thereto are on file in the
office of the city clerk and said code is incorporated herein by reference and
designated as the fuel gas code of the city, the same as though such code were
copied in its entirety herein.
   B.   Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission with local amendments. (Ord.
796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-7: ELECTRICAL CODE:
   A.   The 2017 edition of the National Electrical Code (“NEC”) has been
adopted. Copies of the NEC and the amendments thereto are on file in the office
of the city clerk and said code is incorporated herein by reference and
designated as the electrical code of the city, the same as though such code
were copied in its entirety herein.
   B.   Local Amendment: Electric stove/oven igniters may not be terminated to
the load side of a Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter outlet or breaker.
   C.   Article 250 is amended as follows: The grounding electrode conductor
for services may not terminate in the meter base and must terminate in the
primary electrical panel or first means of disconnect.
   D.   Local Policy: All new installation of electrical service conductors
located within two hundred feet (200') of the property lines shall be installed
underground, except for any transmission or feeder lines, either existing or
proposed, provided that such transmission or feeder lines shall be located
within a designated paved easement or alley way provided by the property owner.
Exception may be made if a hardship situation is reviewed and approved.
   E.   Local Amendment: No temporary utility power will be approved unless it
will be used for approved construction for which a permit will be required.
(Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-8: FIRE CODE:
   A.   The 2018 edition of the International Fire Code (“IFC”), regulating and
governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards
arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials
and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy
of buildings and premises in the City of Glenpool, has been adopted, expressly
including:
   Appendix B - Fire Flow Requirements for Buildings
   Appendix C - Fire Hydrant Location and Distribution
   Appendix D - Fire Apparatus Access Roads
   Appendix E - Hazard Categories
   Appendix F - Hazard Ranking
   Appendix G - Cryogenic Fluids, Weight and Volume Equivalents
   Appendix H - Hazardous Materials Management Plan (HMMP and Hazardous
Materials Inventory Statement (HMIS Instructions)
   Appendix I - Fire Protection Systems - Noncompliant Conditions
   Appendix N - Indoor Trade Shows and Exhibitions
   B.   The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: City of Glenpool
   Section 110.4. Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or shall
fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect,
install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit or certificate
used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor
offense as described in Ord. 660, 7-16-2012; mad. 2013 Code, punishable by a
fine of not more than $500 dollars excluding court costs and fees. Each day
that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   Section 112.4. Any person who shall continue any work after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine of
not more than $500 dollars excluding court costs and fees. Each day that a
violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   C.   The geographic limits referred to in certain sections of the 2018
International Fire Code are hereby established as follows:
   Section 5704.2.9.6.1 Insert: Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground
storage tanks greater than 500 water gallons located outside of buildings will
only be allowed in IM & IL Zoning Districts
   Section 5806.2, insert: cryogenic fluids in stationary containers are only
allowed in IM and IL Zoning Districts
   Section 6104.2 The storage of liquefied petroleum gas in above ground
storage tanks having a capacity of 1000 water gallons or less located outside
of a building will be allowed in commercial, IL and IM zoning districts. The
storage of liquefied petroleum gas in above ground storage tanks having a
capacity of greater than 1000 water gallons located outside of a building will
only be allowed in IM and IL zoning districts. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-9: EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
   A.   The 2018 edition of the International Existing Building Code (“IEBC”)
has been adopted. Copies of the EBC and the amendments thereto, are on file in
the office of the city clerk and said code is incorporated herein by reference
and designated as the electrical code of the city, the same as though such code
were copied in its entirety herein.
   B.   Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission with local amendments. (Ord.
796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-10: SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
The 2018 edition of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (“ISPSC”) has
been adopted. Copies of the code and the amendments thereto are on file in the
office of the city clerk and said code is incorporated herein by reference and
designated as the electrical code of the city, the same as though such code
were copied in its entirety herein. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-11: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The 2018 edition of the International Property Maintenance Code (“IPMC”) has
been adopted. Copies of the IPMC and certain amendments thereto are on file in
the office of the city clerk and said code is incorporated herein by reference
and designated as the property maintenance code of the city, the same as though
such code were copied in its entirety herein. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-12: CONFLICTS IN THE CODE:
When a conflict exists between the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission
and the provisions of this code, the more restrictive requirement shall apply.
(Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-2-13: APPEALS:
Appeals to the city council may be taken by any person aggrieved by any
decision or interpretation by the building or fire official made under the
provisions of the codes adopted in this chapter and this title. An application
for appeal must be submitted to the city council within ten (10) days of the
date of notice of order of the building or fire official. (Ord. 796, 12-13-
2021)
CHAPTER 3
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Applicability; Definitions
10-3-2: Application For Permit; Investigation By Building Official
10-3-3: Issuance Of Permits
10-3-4: Issuance Of Certificate Of Occupancy
10-3-5: Additional Regulations Related To Demolition
10-3-1: APPLICABILITY; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   This chapter applies to any property owner who seeks to move a
structure onto a lot or tract of land in the city limits, relocate a structure
away from a lot or tract of land in the city limits, or demolish a structure in
the city limits.
   B.   The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meaning ascribed to them by this section. All terminology used in this
chapter and not specifically defined herein, shall retain its meaning in
conformance with applicable publications of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) or its successor body or, if not defined therein, the latest
volume of Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary.
 
APPLICANT:         A person in the process of applying for a permit under this
                   chapter.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: A person authorized by the city manager to perform the
                   duties prescribed in this chapter.
                   Any institutional, commercial, public, industrial or
                   residential structure, installation, or building (including
                   any structure, installation, or building containing
FACILITY:          condominiums or individual dwelling units operated as a
                   residential cooperative but excluding residential buildings
                   having four or fewer dwelling units) and any active or
                   inactive disposal site.
                   A person to whom a permit to move, relocate, or demolish any
PERMITTEE:         structure, or portion thereof within the corporate limits of
                   the city has been issued.
PERSON:            Any individual, corporation or other legal entity.
                   Any building, facility or dwelling of any nature or design
STRUCTURE:         and it is the intent to give the broadest interpretation to
                   the meaning of the term. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
 
10-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; INVESTIGATION BY BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   An applicant shall:
      1.   Submit an application on a city-approved application form.
      2.   Include with the application all documents and information required
for permit approval under this chapter or by the building official; and
      3.   Pay any fee(s) and cost(s) required by the city’s schedule of fees.
   B.   Upon any applicant’s filing of an application for a permit to move or
relocate a structure, the building official shall investigate the application
and shall inspect the structure to be moved from or relocated upon the lot or
tract of land and shall further inspect the lot or tract of land upon which the
structure is to be located or from which it is to be relocated. The building
official shall then determine whether the structure, if moved or relocated as
proposed, would or would not meet all the requirements set forth or adopted by
reference in this title and in other applicable ordinances or regulations of
the city. Any home relocated to Glenpool city limits must meet all zoning
requirements at the proposed location.
   C.   Upon an applicant’s filing of an application for a permit to demolish a
structure, the building official shall investigate the application and shall
inspect the structure to be demolished and determine whether it is safe to do
so. If demolition cannot be undertaken safely, no permit will be issued until
the applicant makes appropriate changes in the demolition plan. (Ord. 796, 12-
13-2021)
10-3-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Moving or relocation permit. After determining whether a moving or
relocation permit under this chapter should be issued based on the criteria
listed in this section, the building official shall, subject to the approval of
the city manager, grant the application or deny the application, taking into
consideration the location and size of the lot upon which the structure is to
be located, the size, condition and design of the structure to be moved or
relocated, the population density of the area to which the structure will be
relocated, the location and use of the structure, the uses and proximity of
other structures and land in the area, and the anticipated condition of the
premises from which the structure is to be moved or relocated, if within the
city limits, and to which the structure is proposed to be moved or relocated.
No application shall be granted if the building official shall find that:
      1.   The structure to be moved does not, and will not upon relocation,
meet the requirements of all applicable ordinances of the city and the
applicant cannot provide evidence of the ability to bring the structure up to
city standards within 180 days after completion of the move.
      2.   The lot or tract of land to which the structure is proposed to be
moved or relocated would not meet the requirements of all applicable ordinances
of the city upon completion of the move or relocation.
      3.   The structure to be moved has deteriorated more than 50% of its
original value by virtue of fire or by virtue of age or normal wear and tear or
other elements.
      4.   The moving of such structure upon or from the lot or tract of land
would cause injury to persons or property or damage to the streets or other
public improvements or the applicant cannot provide evidence of public
liability insurance adequate to remedy any such injury or damage.
      5.   The applicant cannot ensure that the grounds from which a structure
is removed will be completely cleared, leveled, and cleaned within 90 days
after permit is issued: or
      6.   The applicant has failed to pay all fees required by the current,
separately published fee schedule or other costs required under this title.
   B.   Demolition permit. After determining whether a demolition permit under
this title should be issued, the building official shall, subject to the
approval of the city manager, grant or deny the application, taking into
consideration the location and size of the lot upon which the structure is
located, the size, condition and design of the structure to be demolished, the
population density of the area, the location and use of the structure, uses and
proximity of other structures and land in the area, and the anticipated
condition of the premises subsequent to the demolition. No application shall be
granted if the building official shall find that:
      1.   The proposed demolition does not meet the requirements of all
applicable ordinances of the city.
      2.   The lot or tract of land after demolition would not meet the
requirements of all applicable ordinances of the city.
      3.   The applicant has failed to provide the building official with any
asbestos-related survey, report or inspection records required under state or
federal law.
      4.   The demolition of such structure, or removal of debris after
demolition, upon or from the lot or tract of land would cause injury to persons
or property or damage to the streets or other public improvements or the
applicant cannot provide evidence of public liability insurance adequate to
remedy any such injury or damage.
      5.   The applicant cannot ensure that the grounds upon which a building
is demolished will be completely cleared of all debris, leveled, and cleaned
within 90 days after permit is issued: or
      6.   The applicant has failed to pay all fees required by the current,
separately published fee schedule or other costs required under this title.
   C.   Form and content. If the building official determines to grant the
request to move, relocate or demolish any structure, the building official,
subject to approval by the city manager, shall cause a written permit to be
issued authorizing the moving, relocation or demolition of the structure upon
or from the lot or tract of land under such conditions, requirements, or
restrictions as the building official shall determine. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-3-4: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
No person shall occupy any structure permitted to be moved until the building
official issues the permittee a certificate of occupancy. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued until the structure complies with all conditions of
the permit and the requirements of all applicable sections of this title. (Ord.
796, 12-13-2021)
10-3-5: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS RELATED TO DEMOLITION:
   A.   Permit fee. A fee for each demolition permit shall be paid to the city
in the amount that is established by the current, separately published fee
schedule.
   B.   Completion of work; cleaning of premises. All demolition work,
including the removal of the foundation, must be completed within 90 days from
the date of issuance of the demolition permit. Upon completion of the
demolition work, the permittee shall clean the premises of all debris, request
an inspection of the premises, and then fill all excavations and grade the area
with topsoil or other material approved by the building official.
   C.   Disconnection of utility services. All water, sanitary sewer services,
electrical and gas or propane, or any other utilities located on the premises
shall be disconnected and sealed in accordance with the appropriate city
ordinances and/or service provider requirements before demolition. Verification
shall be made during pre-demolition inspection.
   D.   Revocation of permit. A demolition permit may be revoked by the
building official at any time upon a violation of the terms thereof, or upon a
violation of any provision of this title or any other applicable ordinance of
the city.
   E.   Compliance with applicable regulations. All demolitions shall be
conducted in compliance with this title, other city ordinances and regulations,
the state rules for asbestos removal, and all other applicable state and
federal law. In the case of any conflict between any provisions or any such
statutes, regulations, or other law, the strictest provision shall govern.
   F.   Applicant must be registered with the city as a general contractor.
(Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING NUMBERS
(Rep. by Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
CHAPTER 5
EARTH CHANGES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose And Scope
10-5-2: Definitions
10-5-3: General Provisions And Rules For Interpretation
10-5-4: Permit Required; Conditions; Application; Exemptions
10-5-5: Policies And Standards
10-5-6: Administrative Procedures
10-5-7: Enforcement And Penalties
10-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: This chapter is enacted for the purpose of protecting the
general health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city from the hazards
and danger of erosion, sedimentation, flooding, and inadequate or improper
drainage by imposing standards and conditions upon the excavation, grading,
regrading, land filling, berming, and diking of land within the city.
   B.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to and be binding
upon every person, firm, corporation, and the city who seeks to develop,
redevelop, grade, regrade, excavate, fill, berm, dike, clear, or grub land
within the city. (Ord. 617, 5-4-2009)
10-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common
usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A board established by the Glenpool city council to hear
and render judgment on requests for administrative appeals or variances from
this chapter.
CITY: The city of Glenpool, Oklahoma.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager for the city of Glenpool, or his representative.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: The city of Glenpool department of
community development, or its authorized representative.
EARTH CHANGE: Excavating, grading, regrading, land filling, berming, diking,
clearing, and grubbing of land within the city of Glenpool.
EARTH CHANGE PERMIT: A permit issued by the city of Glenpool authorizing
excavation, grading, regrading, land filling, berming, diking, or grubbing of
property.
TRACT: Any parcel of land subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 617,
5-4-2009)
10-5-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND RULES FOR INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: This chapter shall apply to all lands within
the jurisdiction of the city.
   B.   Compliance Required: No land shall hereafter be developed, redeveloped,
graded, regraded, excavated, filled, bermed, diked, cleared, or grubbed without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of their inconsistency
only.
   D.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered as minimum requirements as
determined by the city department of community development and shall be deemed
neither to limit nor repeal any of the other powers granted under state
statutes.
   E.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of protection required
by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based
on engineering and scientific methods of study and computations. This chapter
does not imply that land uses permitted will be free from hydraulic or wind
erosion, flooding, or other dangers to the public. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the city or any officer, employee, or
authorized representative thereof for any damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   F.   Severability: If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   G.   Plans Prepared By Professionals: All improvement plans submitted for
review and permitting as required hereunder shall be prepared by a professional
engineer registered in the state of Oklahoma, and shall be certified by that
engineer as to compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 617, 5-4-2009)
10-5-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; CONDITIONS; APPLICATION; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required; Nontransferability: Unless specifically exempted under
subsection F of this section, an "earth change permit", as defined and
regulated by this chapter, shall be obtained from the city department of
community development prior to the commencement of any excavating, grading,
regrading, land filling, berming, diking, clearing, or grubbing of any property
within the city. Unless specifically exempt, an earth change permit shall be
required prior to the clearing of land, including the removal of vegetation and
ground cover or performing any other work constituting an "earth change" as
defined in section
10-5-2 of this chapter. A separate permit shall be required for each separate
noncontiguous tract, and no permit shall be transferable without the prior
written consent of the department of community development.
   B.   Conditions Of Permit: Prior to granting any earth change permit, the
department of community development shall attach such conditions thereto as may
be deemed necessary to prevent hazards or damage to public or private property.
Such damage shall include, but not be limited to, blockage, obstruction,
alteration, or impairment of any storm sewer drain or natural or improved
surface stormwater course. Any such attached conditions shall also prohibit the
work thereby authorized from being conducted in a manner hazardous to life or
property, or otherwise likely to create a public nuisance. Such public
nuisances shall be deemed to include, but not be limited to, erosion, avulsion,
or siltation anywhere within the storm sewer system or surface stormwater
system of the city. Conditions attached to the permit may require, but are not
limited to, submission of a stormwater drainage plan, submission of grading
plans illustrating specified finished grade contours or spot elevations,
installation of retaining walls, installation of drainage structures and
piping, installation of stormwater detention or other drainage related
facilities, installation of specific temporary and/or permanent erosion control
measures, the procurement of any necessary public or private easements for the
work being proposed, a specified written methodology and time period for
performing the authorized work, and a description of the method and disposition
of waste materials generated by the authorized work. (Ord. 617, 5-4-2009)
   C.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Unless exempted by subsection F of this section, any person desiring
to effect an "earth change", as defined in section
10-5-2 of this chapter, shall file a written application for an earth change
permit with the department of community development. Applications for an earth
change permit shall be in such form and content as the department of community
development shall establish. All such permit applications shall be accompanied
by the payment of a fee. All site clearing, grubbing, grading, drainage, or
other similar proposed improvements, including related design standards and
features proposed by the applicant and approved or imposed by the department of
community development, shall become conditions to the issuance of the earth
change permit. No modifications, and/or additions to an approved plan, design
feature, or specification shall be made without prior written approval of the
department of community development. (Ord. 617, 5-4-2009; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   At a minimum, each earth change permit application shall be fully
completed and contain the following information:
         a.   The name, address and contact telephone number of the legal owner
of the property for which the permit is being requested; the name, address, and
contact telephone number of the applicant (if different than property owner);
the street address and legal description for the property being permitted; the
general type of earth change being requested; and the estimated start and
completion dates of the earth change activities being proposed.
         b.   A drawing(s) illustrating the boundary of the project property,
the location of the permit property related to surrounding vicinity, and the
location and limits of the proposed earth change improvements. Such drawing(s)
shall also include a street address and legal description of the permit
property. A certified boundary and/or topographic survey may be required by the
department of community development depending on the scope and complexity of
the work being proposed.
         c.   Site improvement drawings indicating each separate land area to
be excavated, filled, graded, regraded, leveled, bermed, cleared, or grubbed.
Such site drawings shall include:
            (1)   The depth and location of each separate land cut or fill
being proposed (existing and finished grade spot elevations or contours)
including estimated quantities of such cut and fill.
            (2)   The present and future (as completed) points of entry and
discharge for surface stormwater flowing onto and off the subject property.
            (3)   A description and location of all existing, temporary, and
proposed structures and devices to be erected or established for the purpose of
controlling or regulating surface stormwater, soil erosion, and sedimentation
onto and off the subject property.
         d.   A separate narrative describing the applicant's plan for
controlling soil erosion and off site sedimentation and a statement, by the
applicant, certifying that the proposed earth change shall not cause soil
erosion and sedimentation on off site properties.
         e.   The applicant's improvement plans shall provide for the receipt
of surface stormwater onto and the discharge of surface stormwater from his
property during all periods of construction activity and shall include a
statement specifying the anticipated time period for the completion of all
earth change and erosion control improvements.
         f.   Owner's statement and signature certifying that the approved
plans will be implemented under the direct supervision of a registered
professional engineer, if so required by the department of community
development as a condition of the earth change permit.
         g.   Hydraulic and hydrologic analyses for stormwater runoff, any
proposed stormwater detention facilities, any alterations within a flood hazard
area, or the alteration of any established stormwater course.
      3.   If however, upon application, the department of community
development is unable to determine from the information submitted that it meets
the policies and standards governing the issuance of the requested earth change
permit, the department of community development shall request the applicant
furnish such additional information deemed necessary to complete the
requirements prior to issuance of the requested earth change permit.
   D.   Posting Permit: Upon receipt of the approved earth change permit, the
applicant shall post said permit conspicuously at the subject site for the
duration of the project.
   E.   Expiration Of Permit; Periodic Review: An earth change permit shall
expire six (6) months after it is issued if substantial progress has not been
made toward completion of the work permitted. All issued earth change permits
shall be reviewed periodically by the department of community development for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and any special conditions
attached to the approved permit.
   F.   Exemptions From Permit: An earth change permit shall not be required
for the following situations or activities:
      1.   Bona fide agricultural and farming operations which constitute the
principal use of a particular tract of land in the city and which operations
meet the requirements of the zoning regulations of the city.
      2.   Residential construction projects (new structures or remodel
modifications to existing) that an application for a building permit has been
applied for and issued, and are, therefore, under the jurisdiction of the
building inspections division of the community development department.
      3.   Customary, incidental, routine or common grounds maintenance
activities which do not expose the earth or ground to erosion, landscaping
installation and maintenance, and home gardening, any of which that would not
require a zoning use exemption, a minor zoning variance, or a building permit,
and which do not affect natural drainage, or affect stormwater drainage
entering and leaving any public or private easement or right of way.
      4.   Emergency repairs of a temporary nature made on public or private
property which are necessary for the preservation of life, health, or property,
and which are made under circumstances where it would be impossible or
impractical to obtain an earth change permit. Notification that such emergency
repairs have occurred without an approved earth change permit shall be made in
writing to the department of community development within forty eight (48)
hours from completion.
      5.   Any temporary excavation for the purpose of maintaining or repairing
any public street, public utility, or any service line related thereto. (Ord.
617, 5-4-2009)
10-5-5: POLICIES AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Policies: The issuance of earth change permits shall be governed by the
following policies of the city:
      1.   No earth change shall be permitted which does not protect the
general health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city from the
hazards and danger of soil erosion, sedimentation, increased flooding, and
inadequate or improper drainage. Such protection of the public shall be
implemented by imposing construction standards and conditions upon the
clearing, grubbing, excavation, grading, regrading, land filling, berming, and
diking of land being proposed.
      2.   No earth change shall be permitted which will channelize, obstruct,
or impede any stormwater course in a manner which is inconsistent with accepted
engineering practices and/or the adopted drainage standards of the city.
      3.   All earth changes shall be designed, constructed, and completed in a
manner which minimizes the time of exposure of bare earth to the elements.
      4.   Construction activity on individual tracts shall be conducted only
if appropriate sedimentation facilities are installed prior to the start of
construction and maintained throughout the construction period to prevent
sediment from any such tract being deposited upon any off site public or
private property or stormwater course during all phases of project
construction.
      5.   On any tract of land for which a drainage plan, previously approved
by the department of community development, exists, the requirements and
conditions of that approval shall be incorporated as conditions of the
associated earth change permit as may be required.
      6.   The redesign of, or modification to, drainage structures and/or
related improvements presently existing as a result of a previously approved
drainage plan shall not be required as a condition for the subsequent issuance
of an earth change permit covering the same property unless the proposed earth
change materially alters the character and extent of the approved drainage
plan.
   B.   Standards: The policies governing earth changes shall be adopted and
implemented by city stormwater management standards which shall specifically
regulate the following:
      1.   Adopted city stormwater management standards that regulate the
design, installation, and utilization of all stormwater detention, drainage
facilities, and related structures.
      2.   Adopted city stormwater management standards that regulate the
design, installation, maintenance, and removal of sedimentation and erosion
control procedures, facilities, and structures created to establish acceptable
methods and practices for controlling soil sedimentation and erosion. (Ord.
617, 5-4-2009)
10-5-6: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Permit Approval Or Disapproval:
      1.   Within ten (10) working days after receipt of a properly completed
earth change permit application, the department of community development shall
either approve or disapprove the submitted permit application. Earth change
permit applications which are consistent with the policies and which meet the
standards established by this chapter shall be approved.
      2.   If the required findings cannot be made, based upon the information
contained in the permit application, certain additional information shall be
required as identified and determined by the department of community
development. Within ten (10) working days after receipt of such additional
information as may have been required or as may have been determined to be
necessary during a conference with an applicant, a final decision shall be made
by the department of community development to either approve or disapprove the
submitted permit application. If disapproved, the submitting permit applicant
shall be advised in writing and additional conferences scheduled as
appropriate. The community development department shall establish an expiration
date on any approved earth change permit, not to exceed twelve (12) months,
based on the construction schedule submitted by the applicant.
   B.   Administrative Appeals:
      1.   All rulings, requirements, decisions, or interpretations by the
department of community development shall be final and binding upon all parties
thereto unless appealed to the board of adjustment. Any person aggrieved
thereby may initiate an appeal by filing a written notice of such appeal with
the office of the department of community development within ten (10) days from
the date of the action disputed. All notices of appeal shall specify the facts
which the aggrieved party deems material to his appeal. A hearing on the appeal
shall be heard by the board of adjustment within thirty (30) calendar days from
the date of such appeal.
      2.   An appeal to the board of adjustment shall stay the enforcement of
any ruling, decision, or requirement of the department of community
development, unless the department of community development certifies to the
board of adjustment that, by reason of the facts stated, a stay would cause an
immediate public hazard or impair life or property. In such case, enforcement
shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction upon due and sufficient cause shown.
   C.   Variances: The board of adjustment may grant, in a particular instance,
a variance or modification of the terms of this chapter or adopted city
drainage standards unless such action will cause detriment to the public good,
safety, or welfare, or be contrary to the spirit, purpose, and intent of this
chapter, or where, by reason of unique and exceptional physical circumstance or
condition of a particular property, the literal enforcement of the adopted city
drainage standards or the requirements of this chapter will result in an
unreasonable hardship.
   D.   Court Appeals: Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the
board of adjustment may appeal such decision to a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 617, 5-4-2009)
10-5-7: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Noncompliance: If at any time the work being performed in
accordance with a current and valid earth change permit does not conform to the
conditions of an approved permit, including drawings, specifications, and any
approved modifications thereof, a written notice to comply shall be issued to
the permit holder by the department of community development stating the nature
and location of the alleged noncompliance and specifying what remedial steps
are necessary to bring the project into compliance. The permit holder shall
have such time as may be allowed in writing by the department of community
development to correct all noted deficiencies. The time allowed for such
corrections shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
deficiency and whether or not it creates a public nuisance or hazard.
   B.   Temporary Suspension Of Permit: An earth change permit may be
temporarily suspended by the department of community development upon the
existence of any condition or the doing of any act constituting or creating a
condition which endangers human life or may cause severe property damage to
others. The department of community development may issue an immediate stop
work order as provided in subsection C2 of this section. The department of
community development shall, upon issuance of a temporary suspension, give the
permit holder written notice specifying the grounds for such temporary
suspension and advise the permit holder of his right of appeal.
   C.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   An earth change permit may be suspended or permanently revoked by
the board of adjustment after a public hearing. The permit holder shall be
given ten (10) calendar days' advance written notice specifying the grounds for
such contemplated revocation or suspension, and advising the property owner and
permit holder of the date, place, and time of the hearing before the board of
adjustment. An earth change permit may be revoked or suspended upon the
occurrence of any one of the following events:
         a.   Violation of any material condition of the permit; or
         b.   Violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
applicable law, rule or regulation pertaining to the earth change; or
         c.   The existence of any condition or the doing of any act
constituting or creating a public nuisance, hazard, or the endangerment of
human life or the property of others.
      2.   Upon the revocation or suspension of an earth change permit by the
board of adjustment, or as may be specifically directed by the board of
adjustment, the department of community development shall issue a stop work
order. Such stop work order shall cover all construction activity related to
the originally issued earth change permit that may be directly or indirectly
related to site clearing, grubbing, grading, drainage, and other activity being
performed pursuant to any permits, licenses, franchises or contracts issued or
approved by the city. Such order may also direct a work stoppage on all
construction activity on buildings or structures and all appurtenances thereto,
including building, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical systems, as well as
street work, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, gas lines, and all franchise
utilities including gas, electric, telephone and cable TV. Notices and orders
required by this subsection C2 shall be served upon the parties concerned
either personally or by certified mail addressed to the individual contracting
party(ies) and permit holder at the address given on the permit application
filed with the city.
   D.   Additional Penalties: In addition to such fines and costs as the city
may impose, the city may institute appropriate actions or proceedings at law or
equity for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter or to correct
violations thereof. The permit holder shall be liable for all costs incurred by
the city to correct any such violations. Additionally, the city may institute
appropriate actions or proceedings at law or equity against any surety company,
escrow holder, or any third party who has affirmatively acted as surety or
guarantor for the faithful performance of the permit holder's work. (Ord. 617,
5-4-2009; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 6
FLOOD CONTROL
SECTION:
10-6-1: Statutory Authorization
10-6-2: Findings Of Fact
10-6-3: Purpose
10-6-4: Methods Of Accomplishing Purpose
10-6-5: Definitions
10-6-6: Application; Interpretation; Compliance
10-6-7: Floodplain Administrator
10-6-8: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-6-9: Development Permit
10-6-10: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
10-6-11: Variances
10-6-12: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-6-13: Violations; Penalties
10-6-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Oklahoma has, in 82 Oklahoma Statutes sections
1601 through 1618, as amended, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt ordinances designed to minimize flood losses. (Ord.
618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009)
10-6-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009)
10-6-3: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009)
10-6-4: METHODS OF ACCOMPLISHING PURPOSE:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009)
10-6-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common
usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which is on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of accessory structures include, but are not
limited to, garages and storage sheds.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within the city of
Glenpool subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any
given year.
BFE: Base flood elevation.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or one percent (1%) chance flood.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CFR: Code of federal regulations.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the city of Glenpool floodplain
administrator which authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in
accordance with this chapter.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building built, in the case of a building in
zones AE, A, and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately anchored
so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones AE, A, and X,
"elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
hereof.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: The federal emergency management agency.
FIRM: Flood insurance rate map.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: An official map of the city of Glenpool on which FEMA
has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the city of Glenpool.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by FEMA for the city of
Glenpool which contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base
flood, as well as the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland waters; or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within the city of Glenpool subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of
the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes dams,
reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by the
city council of the city of Glenpool to administer and implement laws,
ordinances and regulations relating to the management of floodplains.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations,
ordinances (such as floodplain, grading and erosion control regulations and
ordinances), and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A floodway is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in section
10-6-8 of this chapter. A floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on the state of Oklahoma inventory of historic
places by the state historic preservation office of the Oklahoma historical
society.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of title 44 CFR.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the North
American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base flood
elevations shown on the city of Glenpool's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date hereof and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date hereof.
OWRB: The Oklahoma water resources board.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION (For Other Than New Construction Or Substantial
Improvements Under The Coastal Barrier Resources Act [Public Law 97-348]):
Includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds, not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the
main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the start of construction of
the improvement. This includes structures that have incurred substantial damage
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the alteration
would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the city of Glenpool city council to a person
from the terms of this chapter when specific enforcement would result in
unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or
development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full
requirements, see section 60.6 of title 44 CFR.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American vertical
datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas. (Ord. 618, 7-
20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009; amd. 2013 Code)
10-6-6: APPLICATION; INTERPRETATION; COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: This chapter shall apply to all areas of
special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the city council; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   D.   Compliance Required: No structure or land shall hereafter be located,
altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009)
10-6-7: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   City Manager to Appoint: The city council delegates the appointment of
the floodplain administrator to the City Manager. The City Manager shall
designate a floodplain administrator as is properly qualified for the position
to serve as the floodplain administrator to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter and appropriate sections of the national flood
insurance program regulations in title 44 CFR pertaining to floodplain
management.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1601 through 1618, as amended.
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this chapter.
      4.   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions).
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to FEMA.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   When base flood elevation data contemplated by section 10-6-8 of
this chapter has not been provided by FEMA, obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from any
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
section
10-6-10 of this chapter.
      9.   When a floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) be permitted within zone AE as delineated
on the county FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the city.
      10.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the city, determine if the residential and nonresidential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement.
      11.   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the city council.
      12.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009; amd.
Ord. 640, 9-20-2010; Ord. 808, 8-5-2022)
10-6-8: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood
Insurance Study For Tulsa County, Oklahoma And Incorporated Areas", dated
October 16, 2012, with the accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM), also
dated October 16, 2012, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter. However, the current effective flood maps for the city
identified by "The Flood Insurance Study For Tulsa County, Oklahoma And
Incorporated Areas", dated August 3, 2009, with the accompanying flood
insurance rate map (FIRM), shall be used for this purpose until October 16,
2012. (Ord. 662, 8-6-2012, eff. 10-16-2012)
10-6-9: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: A development permit shall be required to ensure
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit: An application for a development permit shall
be presented to the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and
may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing
the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations,
existing and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured
homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood
hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; and
      2.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   C.   Approval Or Denial Of Permit: Approval or denial of a development
permit by the floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions
of this chapter and the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
   D.   Developments In Certain Flood Hazard Areas: The floodplain
administrator or city council, as applicable, may approve certain development
in zones A or AE delineated on the county FIRM which increases the water
surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1'); provided, that
the applicant for the development permit in that case first complies with 44
CFR section 65.12. (Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009)
10-6-10: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood elevations have been provided or are otherwise determined as set forth in
section
10-6-8 or subsection
10-6-7B8 of this chapter or subsection C1 of this section, the following
provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated at least one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor
shall submit a certification to the floodplain administrator that the standard
of this subsection B1 is satisfied.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one foot
(1') above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer,
architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the floodplain
administrator that the standard of this subsection B2 is satisfied.
      3.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; and
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      4.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on
the county FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize
flood damage and have the bottom of the I-beam elevated at least thirty six
inches (36") above grade or at least at or above the base flood elevation. For
the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. This requirement
is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for
resisting wind forces. The home shall be installed by a licensed installer
according to Oklahoma state law, and compliance herewith shall be certified in
writing to the floodplain administrator by said installer prior to habitation
of the manufactured home.
         b.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zone AE on the county FIRM on sites: 1) outside of a
manufactured home park or subdivision; 2) in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision; 3) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or 4) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I-beam
for the manufactured home is elevated at least one foot (1') above the base
flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. A licensed
installer shall install the home in accordance with state law, and compliance
herewith shall be certified in writing to the floodplain administrator prior to
habitation of the manufactured home.
         c.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
zone AE on the county FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of this
subsection B4 be elevated so that the bottom of the I-beam of the manufactured
home is at least one foot (1') above the base flood elevation and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         d.   A licensed installer shall install the home in accordance with
state law, and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the
floodplain administrator prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within zones A and AE on the county FIRM either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days;
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         c.   Meet the permit requirements of section
10-6-9 of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in subsection B4 of this section. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions.
      6.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures to be placed on sites
within zones A and AE on the county FIRM shall comply with the following:
         a.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
         b.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
         c.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
         d.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must
be elevated to or above the BFE;
         e.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         f.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential and constructed with flood resistant materials;
         g.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement;
         h.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
         i.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
         j.   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures.
   C.   Standards For Subdivisions:
      1.   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located
in zones A and AE which is fifty one (51) or more lots or greater than five (5)
acres shall generate the base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
      2.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
      3.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
   D.   Floodways: The following provisions shall apply to floodways:
      1.   Encroachments, including, but not limited to, fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other development, are prohibited
within the adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practices that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
flood levels within the city during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection D1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
      3.   The city may permit encroachments within the adopted floodway that
would result in an increase in base flood elevations; provided, that the
applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 CFR section 65.12.
(Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009)
10-6-11: VARIANCES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   The city council may grant variances for uses which do not satisfy
the requirements of the Oklahoma floodplain management act or this chapter, if
the applicant for the variance presents adequate proof that: a) compliance with
this chapter will result in an arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property
without sufficient benefit or advantage to the people; and b) satisfies the
pertinent provisions of this section. Provided, however, no variance shall be
granted where the effect of the variance will be to permit the continuance of a
condition which unreasonably creates flooding hazards.
      2.   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the Oklahoma floodplain
management act or by other laws of the state or applicable federal regulations.
      3.   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than
twenty (20) years. (Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009)
      4.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the city
council, accompanied by a filing fee. (Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009; amd.
2013 Code)
      5.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, provided the relevant factors in subsection
10-6-9C of this chapter and provisions of this section have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases. (Ord. 618,
7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009)
      6.   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base
flood elevation will be issued a notice, signed by the mayor, which states
that: a) the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased
risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower than the base
flood elevation; and b) such construction below the base flood level increases
risks to life and property.
      7.   At such time as the city council deems the petition ready for
notification to the public, the city council shall schedule a hearing and
direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing. (Ord.
618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009; amd. 2013 Code)
      8.   The city council shall conduct the hearing and make determinations
in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section. The city council
shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the equities involved and the
advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to the public at large when
determining whether the variance shall be granted.
      9.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances; and
         d.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      10.   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this section and the
intent of this chapter, the city council may attach such conditions to the
granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives stated in section
10-6-3 of this chapter.
      11.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and a copy of any
variance issued by the board of trustees shall be sent by the floodplain
administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within fifteen (15) days after issuance of
the variance.
   B.   Certain Variances Permitted; Conditions:
      1.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in sections
10-6-10 and
10-6-13 of this chapter.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      4.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use; provided, that:
         a.   The criteria of subsections A5, A9, B2 and B3 of this section are
met; and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-2009)
10-6-12: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur, and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-
3-2009)
10-6-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate or other certifications required in this chapter is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code for each violation and, in addition, shall pay all costs
and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
city council or its city attorney from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 618, 7-20-2009, eff. 8-3-
2009; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ADDRESS NUMBERS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Building Numbering System
10-7-2: Maintenance Of Address
10-7-3: Posting Of Address Numbers
10-7-4: Other Number Locations
10-7-1: BUILDING NUMBERING SYSTEM:
The director of development services or his/her designee will supervise the
assignment of all building numbers/addressing. Such numbering will be
recognized as the official number of the building. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-7-2: MAINTENANCE OF ADDRESS:
Maintenance and placement of the required addressing shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the property and structure(s). (Ord. 796, 12-13-
2021)
10-7-3: POSTING OF ADDRESS NUMBERS:
   A.   Required standards. The owner of a lot or tract on which one or more
structures have been located shall place the appropriate street address number
in a clearly identifiable location on the front (that portion facing the
street) of the primary structure on the lot or tract. If more than one primary
structure is located on the lot or tract, each primary structure shall be
separately identified with an appropriate address number. Said numbers shall be
not less than four inches in height and shall be located so that emergency
service personnel can easily read and identify the address enumeration.
   B.   Penalty. Any person, firm, corporation, or business entity violating
this section shall be subject to such enforcement and penalties as may be
allowed by law and this chapter. (Ord. 796, 12-13-2021)
10-7-4: OTHER NUMBER LOCATIONS:
Numbers posted on the mailbox or curb are not an acceptable substitute for the
number required to be posted on the primary structure(s). (Ord. 796, 12-13-
2021)
TITLE 11 1 ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSES, INTERPRETATION AND JURISDICTION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: Purposes
11-1-4: Jurisdiction
11-1-5: Effective Date
11-1-6: Severability
Effect Of Regulations
11-1-7: Abrogation
11-1-8: Consistency With Plans
 
Notes
1 1. Fees referenced in this title are on file in the offices of the community
  development department.
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING CODE OF THE CITY OF
GLENPOOL, OKLAHOMA, and is referred to herein as “this Title”. (Ord. 746, 11-
14-2017)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This Title is enacted pursuant to the provisions of Title 11, Oklahoma
Statutes, Section 11-43-101 et seq. [11 O.S. § 43-101 et seq.] (Ord. 746, 11-
14-2017)
11-1-3: PURPOSES:
This Title is enacted to:
   A.   Promote health, safety, comfort, convenience, prosperity, order, and
general welfare;
   B.   Improve traffic safety, minimize congestion, and improve connectivity
between uses;
   C.   Promote safety from fire, flooding, overcrowding, and other natural and
man-made dangers;
   D.   Provide adequate light, air, and open space and development amenities
to improve livability and population concentration;
   E.   Provide adequate, safe and affordable housing opportunities for all
segments of the population;
   F.   Provide opportunities for the economic development and expansion of the
City in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan;
   G.   Streamline and simplify the development review process by clearly
articulating the design and development expectations of the City and
eliminating unnecessary process where prudent;
   H.   Provide code flexibility to allow the development community and City
staff to adjust to evolving market conditions and trends for mixed housing
neighborhoods and mixed-use development;
   I.   Enhance property values and improve community character by implementing
minimum building and site design and buffering requirements; and
   J.   Implement the goals, policies, and recommendations of the Comprehensive
Plan and other adopted City plans. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-1-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Territorial Jurisdiction. This Title shall be in full force and effect
and shall apply to all lands within the incorporated limits of the City.
   B.   Annexed Territory.
      1.   When any territory shall be brought into the zoning jurisdiction of
the City, by annexation or otherwise, such territory shall be deemed to be in
the Agriculture (AG) District; unless, after due consideration and upon
specific recommendation to the City Council by the Planning Commission, the
territory is assigned permanent zoning in accordance with the recommendations
of the Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   No person shall begin construction of any building or structure or
add to any building or structure or cause the same to be done in any newly
annexed territory to the City without first applying for and obtaining a Zoning
Clearance Permit and Building Permit from the City Planner and Building
Official, respectively.
      3.   Permits shall only be issued to allow improvements permitted in the
Agricultural (AG) district, unless and until such territory has been
reclassified as a new zoning district as prescribed herein.
      4.   This Section shall not preclude subsequent zoning of the property by
amendment in the manner set out in Chapter 9 of this Title.
   C.   Public Property. Property owned, leased or operated by the City or any
other public or governmental body or agency shall be subject to the terms of
this Title.
   D.   Pending Applications. An application for development approval, as well
as the approval, conditional approval, or denial of an application shall be
governed only by the duly adopted laws and regulations in effect at the time
that an application was submitted to the City. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-1-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of this Title shall be November 14, 2017, on which date the
City Council repealed Title 11, as adopted by Ordinance 665 on September 17,
2012, and replaced it with Title 11, with all regulations constituted herein,
as adopted by Ordinance 746 on November 14, 2017. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-1-6: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   Severability, Excluding Signs.
      1.   If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates any provision of
this Title, then such judgment shall not affect the validity and continued
enforcement of any other provision of this Title.
      2.   If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates the application
of any provision of this Title, then such judgment shall not affect the
application of that provision to any other building, structure, or use not
specifically included in that judgment.
      3.   If any court of competent jurisdiction judges invalid any condition
attached to the approval of an application for development approval, then such
judgment shall not affect any other conditions or requirements attached to the
same approval that are not specifically included in that judgment.
   B.   Severability Regarding Signs.
      1.   Generally. If any Section, Subsection, paragraph, clause, provision,
or portion of Title 11, Chapter 7, Signs, or any other provision of this Title
related to signage, is declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration of such
unconstitutionality shall not affect any other Section, Subsection, paragraph,
clause, provision, or portion of Chapter 7, Signs, or any other part of this
Title.
      2.   Severability Where Less Speech Results. Without diminishing or
limiting in any way the declaration of intent with respect to severability set
forth in Subsection B.1., above, if any Section, Subsection, paragraph, clause,
or provision of Chapter 7, Signs, or any other provision of this Title related
to signage, is declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any
court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration of such unconstitutionality
shall not affect any other Chapter, Subchapter, Section, Subsection, paragraph,
clause, provision, or portion thereof, of this Title, even if such severability
would result in a situation where there could be less speech, whether by
subjecting previously exempt signs to permitting or otherwise.
      3.   Severability of Provisions Pertaining to Prohibited Signs and Sign
Elements. It is the intent of the City Council to ensure that the sign types
and sign elements that may be constitutionally prohibited by this Title
continue to be prohibited. Accordingly, without diminishing or limiting in any
way the declarations of intent with respect to severability that are set forth
in Subsections B.1. and B.2., above, if any Section, Subsection, paragraph,
clause, provision, or portion of Chapter 7, Signs, or any other provision of
this Title related to signage, is declared unconstitutional by the valid
judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration of
such unconstitutionality shall not affect any other Section, Subsection,
paragraph, clause, provision, or portion of Chapter 7, Signs, pertaining to
prohibited signs or sign elements, or any Chapter, Section, Subsection,
paragraph, clause, provision, or portion thereof, of this Title.
      4.   Severability of Provisions if Adjudicated Stricken Due to a Content-
Basis. It is the intent of the City Council to regulate signage in a manner
that implements the purposes of Chapter 7, Signs, as expressed therein. The
City finds that the purposes stated in Chapter 7, Signs, are legitimate,
substantial, and compelling public interests and are not intended to suppress
free expression, and that any incidental restriction on expression that may
occur as a result of those regulations is no more than is essential to the
furtherance of the public interests. However, if a court of competent
jurisdiction finds any regulation therein to be based upon content and,
further, declares such regulation unconstitutional, then:
         a.   It is the intent of the City Council that all signs that would be
subject to the stricken provision will instead be subject to the next surviving
provision for a sign of comparable geometry and character; that is more
restrictive than the stricken provision in terms of sign area, and if the sign
area is the same, sign height.
         b.   If it is not possible for the court to strike only the portion of
the provision that is found to relate to content, only that portion of any
provision that may be found to be unconstitutional related to content shall be
severed from Title 11, Chapter 7, Signs. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
EFFECT OF REGULATIONS
11-1-7: ABROGATION:
   A.   The provisions of this Title are the minimum standards necessary to
accomplish the stated purposes of this Title. It is not the intent of this
Title to interfere with, abrogate or annul any private easement, covenant, deed
restriction, or other agreement between private parties. When the provisions of
this Title impose a greater restriction than that imposed by such private
agreements, the provisions of this Title shall control. When private agreements
impose a greater restriction than imposed by this Title, such private
agreements shall control. The City has no duty to search for the existence of
private restrictions or to administer or enforce private restrictions.
   B.   The provisions of this Title shall not be construed to supersede any
other ordinance, law, or regulation, or prevent the enforcement of any other
ordinance, laws, or regulation which may prescribe more restrictive
limitations.
   C.   The provisions of this Title shall not be construed to prevent the
development of properties that were zoned RS-4 with a Planned Unit Development
(PUD) overlay when RS-4 was among the zoning districts established by this
Title, provided that the development of such properties shall fully comply with
all the development requirements of this Title 11, as they existed upon the
adoption of Ordinance 665 on September 17, 2012, and any other development
requirements that may have been imposed by City Council as conditions of the
approval of RS-4 zoning with a PUD.
   D.   The provisions of this Title shall not be construed to prevent the
development of property in accordance with development approvals granted by
City Council, the Planning Commission, or Board of Adjustment under the former
provisions of this Title, as adopted by Ordinance 665 on September 17, 2012,
provided that all terms, conditions, and regulations in effect or attached as
conditions of approval are satisfied and that said approvals have not expired
under terms of approval or any former provision of this Title.  (Ord. 746, 11-
14-2017; amd. Ord. 788, 67-21-2021)
11-1-8: CONSISTENCY WITH PLANS:
The regulations of this Title are intended to implement and be consistent with
the Comprehensive Plan, as such may be amended from time to time, and the Major
Street and Highway Plan, as both are adopted by the City Council and are
incorporated by reference in the administration of this Title. Furthermore, the
regulations of this Title are intended to implement the principles and policies
of all other planning documents and statements of development policy adopted by
the City Council. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2021)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Computation of Time. The time within which an act is to be completed
will be computed by including the first and including the last day.
      1.   If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday declared by
the City, that day will be excluded.
      2.   In the computation of time for public hearing notice, both the first
day, the date of the advertisement, and the last day, the date of the hearing,
will be excluded.
      3.   The following time-related words will have the meanings set out
below:
         a.   “Day” means a calendar day unless working day is expressly
specified.
         b.   “Week” means seven calendar days.
         c.   “Month” means a calendar month.
         d.   “Year” means a calendar year, unless a fiscal year is
specifically indicated.
   B.   Word Usage. The rules of this Title will be observed and applied in the
interpretation of this Title as set out below:
      1.   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words used or
defined in one tense or form shall include other tenses or forms.
      2.   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words in the
singular number shall include the plural number, and words in the plural number
shall include the singular number.
      3.   The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory.
      4.   The words “may” and “should” are permissive.
      5.   The word “person” includes individuals, partnerships, firms,
corporations, associations, trusts, and any other similar entities or
combination of individuals. Words of one gender shall apply to all persons,
regardless of gender, as the context and application of this Title may
reasonably suggest.
   C.   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.   “And” indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events shall apply; and
      2.   “Or” indicates that one or more connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply.
   D.   Delegation of Authority. Whenever a provision appears to require the
head of a department or some other officer or employee to do some act or
perform some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the
department or other officer to designate, delegate and authorize professional-
level subordinates to perform the required act or duty unless the terms of the
provision or Section specify otherwise.
   E.   Nontechnical and Technical Words. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of administering this Title, certain terms and words are to be
used and interpreted as defined below:
              In the context of a screening or enclosure requirement, means contiguous or separated
ABUTTING:     therefrom by only a non-arterial street. In all other instances, the term shall mean
              contiguous.
ACCESSORY     A dwelling unit that may be incorporated within the living area of a home or detached
DWELLING UNIT from the primary residence on the same lot. An ADU will include permanent provisions for
(ADU):        living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
ACCESSORY     A structure on the same lot with a principal structure, of a nature that is customarily
STRUCTURE:    incidental and subordinate to the principal structure.
ACCESSORY     A use on the same lot with a principal use, of a nature customarily incidental and
USE:          subordinate to the principal use.
AGRICULTURAL  Agrarian use of property that includes farming, ranching, animal and poultry production,
USE:          dairy farming, aquaculture, fishery, timber production, and riding stables.
ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGE      A business with floor space devoted to the retail sale of beer, wine, or other alcoholic
SALES, OFF-   beverages for off-premises consumption and which requires a license under Oklahoma law.
SITE          Such sales may constitute a primary or accessory use of an establishment.
CONSUMPTION:
ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGE      A business whose floor space is not primarily devoted to the sale of beer, wine, or
SALES, ON-    other alcoholic beverages, but where on-premises consumption is permitted, subject to a
SITE          license under Oklahoma regulations.
CONSUMPTION:
ALL-WEATHER   A material capable, during ordinary use, of withstanding, without substantial
MATERIAL:     deterioration, normal weather conditions.
ALLEY:        A permanent public way providing a secondary means of access for service and emergency
              vehicles, and not intended for general traffic circulation.
ANCILLARY     Retail merchandise display and sales that occur externally, relative to the principal
OUTDOOR       retail activities conducted within an enclosed structure on the site, which may include
RETAIL AND    outdoor sales conducted in a garden center that is attached to the principal building or
SEASONAL      limited seasonal sales conducted in a detached structure, on a sidewalk, or in a parking
SALES:        area where permitted.
              A transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunication that radiates, or captures,
ANTENNA:      a signal. References to antennas in this Title shall also include antenna supporting
              structures.
ANTENNA       A telecommunications facility that consists of a stand-alone support structure which has
SUPPORTING    as its principal use the support of an antenna(s) and associated equipment and
STRUCTURE:    improvements.
ARTERIAL      A designation on the Glenpool Major Street and Highway Plan as a primary or secondary
STREET:       arterial street.
              A building or place arranged, designed, and used for providing intensive repair and
AUTOMOBILE,   servicing of all types of motor vehicles. Such repairs or services may include engine
MAJOR         overhauls, transmission overhaul, wrecker service, collision services, including body,
SERVICE:      frame or fender straightening or repair; painting, undercoating and dust proofing,
              upholstery, and similar services.
              Any automobile repair work that does not require the removal of the engine head or pan,
AUTOMOBILE,   transmission, differential, body work, the rebuilding or reconditioning of engines,
MINOR         framework, welding, and major painting service, or uses of a similar nature, constitute
SERVICE:      Minor Services. Minor Services include the changing of fluids, tires, batteries, shock
              absorbers, mufflers, brakes, lights, wipers, tinting, and other uses of a similar
              nature.
BALE AND      A collection area for storing bundles of goods typically closely pressed and packaged
PALLET        into bales for disposal and portable platforms, or pallets, used for the handling,
STORAGE:      storing, or moving of materials and packages.
BED AND       A lodging service that provides overnight or short-term accommodations for not more than
BREAKFAST     five guests, usually including provision of a meal, located in a large single-family
HOME:         residence owned and operated by the residential owner or a manager of the structure.
BED AND       A residential structure that provides 12 or fewer guestrooms and meals for overnight
BREAKFAST     guests who pay a fee for such services. Said structure may also be rented for special
INN:          events.
BOARD OF      The Board of Adjustment of the City of Glenpool.
ADJUSTMENT:
              A structure permanently affixed to the land, with one or more floors and a roof, and is
BUILDING:     bounded by either another building with a common party wall, open air, or lot or lease
              lines.
BUILDING      That area on a lot that encompasses all development, including but not limited to,
ENVELOPE:     excavation, fill, grading, structures, building height, decks, roof overhangs, porches,
              driveways, access ways and parking.
BUILDING      The vertical distance measured from the average ground elevation at the building wall to
HEIGHT:       the highest horizontal point of the structure.
BUILDING      The official charged with the responsibility of issuing permits and enforcing, on behalf
OFFICIAL:     of the City, all adopted city construction codes or building requirements adopted by the
              City.
BUILDING      A permit issued by the Building Official, after issuance of a Zoning Clearance Permit,
PERMIT:       to allow an applicant to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter or change the use of a
              building or other structure or improvements of land.
BUILDING      The horizontal distance from the point of measurement, such as the centerline of an
SETBACK:      abutting street or the boundary line of an abutting zoning district to the nearest
              building wall.
              Any tract of land that has been planned, developed, and operated as an integrated
BUSINESS      facility for a number of separate buildings or for a mixture of land uses, with special
PARK:         attention paid to integrated circulation, parking, truck access, utilities, drainage,
              site and building character, aesthetics, and use compatibility.
              The diameter of the tree trunk measured at six inches above ground level for a tree
CALIPER:      trunk having a diameter of four inches or less, and the diameter of the tree trunk
              measured at 12 inches above ground level for a tree trunk exceeding four inches.
              Premises used for the housing and caring for the aged or infirmed, and includes
CARE HOME:    convalescent homes, homes for the aged, and nursing homes, as regulated by the State of
              Oklahoma.
              Land used or intended to be used for the interment of human remains and dedicated for
CEMETERY:     cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in
              conjunction with and within the boundary of a cemetery.
CERTIFICATE   An official certificate issued by the City through the enforcing official which
OF OCCUPANCY: indicates conformance with this Title and authorizes legal use of the premises for which
              it is issued.
              Any place, home, or institution which cares for six or more children under the age of 16
              years, apart from their parents, guardians, or custodians, for regular periods of time
CHILDCARE     for compensation, as regulated by the State of Oklahoma. The term “childcare center”
CENTER:       shall not include or apply to bona fide schools, custody fixed by a court, children
              related by blood or marriage within the third degree of the custodial person, or places
              of worship and other institutions caring for children within an institutional building.
CITY COUNCIL: The governing and legislative body of the City of Glenpool.
CITY MANAGER: The Chief Administrative officer of the City of Glenpool.
CITY PLANNER: The administrative officer designated by the City Manager and charged with the primary
              responsibility of administering this Title.
CLUSTER       A residential development containing attached or detached units on a limited portion of
HOUSING:      land with the remaining land areas consolidated into common open space areas.
COLLECTOR     A street classification on the Glenpool Major Street and Highway Plan.
STREET:
COLLEGE,      A place of higher learning, including technical and trade schools, colleges,
TECHNICAL, OR universities, business schools, training centers, beauty schools, culinary schools, and
VOCATIONAL    comparable advanced or continuing education facilities.
SCHOOL:
COMPATIBLE:   Consistent with, harmonious with, similar to and/or complimentary to the design and
              character of the surrounding uses, buildings and structures.
COMPREHENSIVE The Comprehensive Plan of the City adopted by the City Council, including all revisions
PLAN:         and amendments.
              A community based residential facility for independent living that provides room and
              board, personal care, and habilitation services in a family environment as a single
COMMUNITY     housekeeping unit for six to 12 resident developmentally challenged and/or physically
GROUP HOME:   limited persons with at least one but not more than three resident staff persons, as
              regulated by the State of Oklahoma. Personal care and habilitation services exclude on-
              site institutional type educational training, medical services, and nursing care.
              The mean level of the established curb at the frontage of a lot. Where no curb has been
CURB LEVEL:   established, the City Engineer shall establish the curb level or its equivalent for the
              purposes of this title.
DAYCARE       See “Childcare Center” definition.
CENTER:
DENSITY:      The maximum number of dwelling units per gross acre of land permitted in a zoning
              district.
DETENTION/    A facility for the detention, containment, treatment or rehabilitation of persons
CORRECTIONAL  arrested or convicted for the violation of civil or criminal law. Such facilities
FACILITY:     include adult detention centers, juvenile delinquency centers, prerelease centers,
              correctional community treatment centers, jails, and prisons.
DEVELOPED     The area of a lot which, on the effective date hereof, is covered by a structure, off-
AREA:         street parking or loading areas or other areas paved with all-weather material.
DRIP LINE:    The periphery of the area underneath a tree which would be encompassed by perpendicular
              lines extending from the exterior edges of the crown of the tree.
DUMPSTER:     A large trash receptacle designed to be hoisted and emptied into a truck.
DWELLING,     A building or suite of rooms which provides space for more than six dwelling units that
APARTMENT:    are rented or leased for occupancy.
              A building containing two dwelling units designed for occupancy by not more than two
DWELLING,     families, separated by a shared wall with no penetrations from the ground to the roof,
DUPLEX:       and each unit has a separate outside door. Included are all forms of industrial duplex
              dwellings, excluding manufactured and mobile homes.
              A detached, single-family unit situated on one side lot line that orients outdoor
DWELLING, LOT activity within rear or side yard patio areas for better use of the site for outdoor
LINE HOME:    living space. There are two types of lot-line homes:
              A.   Standard lot-line homes have a street-facing garage.
              B.   Patio lot-line homes have an alley-facing garage and a fenced or walled rear yard.
              A factory-built single-family structure, which is manufactured or constructed under the
              authority of 42 U.S.C. Section 5403, National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
              Standards Act of 1974, and is to be used exclusively as a place for human habitation,
              but which is not constructed with a permanent hitch or other device to allow it to be
DWELLING,     moved, other than for the purpose of moving the home to a permanent site. Manufactured
MANUFACTURED  homes do not have permanently attached wheels or axles, are transportable in one or more
HOME:         sections, which when erected on site, measure eight body feet or more in width and 40
              body feet or more in length, or is 320 or more square feet in area. For the purpose of
              these regulations, a manufactured home shall be built after June 15, 1976, and shall
              bear a seal certifying that it is in compliance with the National Manufactured Home
              Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974.
              A structure designed and intended for human occupancy on a year round or temporary or
DWELLING,     seasonal basis which has undergone at least partial prefabrication or preassembly under
MANUFACTURED: indoor factory conditions, excluding dwellings utilizing only prefabricated or
              preassembled sub-elements such as roof trusses, floor trusses, plumbing trees, or wiring
              harnesses. Included are the following subclasses:
DWELLING,     A portable structure that may be similar in appearance to a Manufactured Home but was
MOBILE HOME:  constructed prior to June 15, 1976, and does not bear a National Manufactured Home HUD
              seal.
DWELLING,     A multiple-family residential building type that has many attributes of a townhome,
MULTIPLEX (3- except that the building is designed to resemble a large single-family home. Units in a
5 DWELLING    multiplex are not necessarily separated by a wall that extends from the foundation to
UNITS):       the roof. Units may have either private or shared access and may be arranged in a
              variety of configurations, including back-to-back, side-to-side, or over-under units.
DWELLING,     A building, excluding manufactured homes and mobile homes, containing one dwelling unit
SINGLE-FAMILY designed for occupancy by not more than one family, and certified as complying with the
DETACHED:     building code of the City whether constructed on site or off site.
ELDERLY/      A residential complex containing multi-family dwellings designed for, and principally
RETIREMENT    occupied by, senior citizens. Such facilities may include a congregate meals program in
HOUSING:      a common dining area, but exclude institutional care such as medical services and
              nursing care and is distinguished from life care retirement centers, as defined herein.
EMERGENCY AND A residential facility which provides room and board for a temporary period not to
PROTECTIVE    exceed 30 days, for protection, shelter, counseling, and preplacement screening for
SHELTER:      abused, displaced, or transient persons.
ENCROACHMENT: The unauthorized placement of a building or part of a building within a required
              regulatory setback, easement, right-of-way, or other regulatory boundary.
              The development or maintenance of public services, police and fire stations, government
ESSENTIAL     facilities, utilities, and City-approved underground, surface, or overhead gas,
SERVICES:     electrical, telephone, steam, fuel or water transmission or distribution systems,
              including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm,
              police call box, traffic signals, hydrants and lift stations.
EXISTING      A term used to determine the applicability of the regulations of this Title, relative to
BUILDINGS:    the time when buildings were originally started and completed and in existence prior to
              the effective date of this Title.
              The enterprise of excavation and removal of minerals, stone, sand, gravel, soil, or
              similar materials from a site, whether the intent is to increase the utility and value
EXTRACTION:   of the site or to use the materials for landfilling on another site, and the processing
              of excavated materials. This includes surface and subsurface mining, borrow pits,
              storage, and the crushing, sifting, stock piling, sorting, processing, and storage of
              extracted materials.
              Two or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that all members are
              related by blood, marriage, or other domestic bonds. Domestic staff may be housed on the
              premises without being designated as a family. Individuals not related by blood,
FAMILY:       marriage, or adoption occupying a single dwelling unit for on-site institutional
              education, training, supervision, medical service, or nursing care shall not be
              considered a family. A family does not include a “foster home” or a “neighborhood group
              home” as each is defined in this Section.
              A home which cares for no more than five children under the age of 16 years for regular
FAMILY        periods of time for compensation, as regulated by the State of Oklahoma. The number of
DAYCARE HOME: children includes preschool children of the family daycare parents under the age of two
              years living in the home.
FENCE:        Any structure intended for the use of confinement, prevention of intrusion, boundary
              identification, or screening of an activity.
              The land area adjoining a watercourse or drainage-way which would be inundated by the
FLOODPLAIN:   floodwater of the 100-year frequency flood, based on full urbanization of the watershed,
              as designated on a FIRM map and as predicted by the U.S. Corps of Engineers and
              interpreted by the City Engineer.
              The primary channel of a watercourse or drainage-way and those portions of the adjoining
FLOODWAY:     floodplain which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the floodwaters of the
              100-year frequency flood, as designated by FIRM maps, and predicted by the U.S. Corps of
              Engineers and interpreted by the City Engineer.
FLOODWAY      Those portions of the floodplain outside of the floodway but that are subject to
FRINGE:       inundation the 100-year frequency flood, as designated by FIRM maps, or as predicted by
              the U.S. Corps of Engineers and interpreted by the City Engineer.
FLOOR AREA,   The total floor space within the outside dimensions of a building including each floor
GROSS:        level.
FLOOR AREA,   The area actually occupied, excluding accessory unoccupied areas such as corridors,
NET:          stairs, closets, wall thickness, columns, toilet rooms, mechanical area or similar
              features.
FLOOR AREA    The floor area of a building(s) on a lot divided by the lot area.
RATIO:
              A dwelling used in whole or in part as living quarters for a household including one or
              more minor children placed by a licensed child placement agency who are not members of
              the family occupying said dwelling but are under their supervision, as regulated by the
FOSTER HOME:  State of Oklahoma. A maximum of five children are allowed to reside in the home,
              including any natural children, if any children in the home are age two or younger. If
              no children are under two years, the maximum number of children residing in the home is
              six.
              The linear measurement of a lot boundary which abuts a public street or the linear
FRONTAGE:     measurement of the building setback line when the boundary of the lot abuts a curbed
              non- arterial street or cul-de-sac.
HABITABLE     Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working, sleeping, heating, cooking
FLOOR:        or recreation, or a combination thereof.
HALFWAY       A building used in whole or in part as a treatment center and dwelling quarters for
HOUSE:        persons unrelated by blood or marriage, who are undergoing care or rehabilitation for
              alcoholism or other forms of drug abuse.
HEAVY RETAIL  Retail and/or service activities that have regular outdoor service, storage, and display
(PERMANENT    or partially enclosed structures, including, but not limited to, permanent retail or
OUTDOOR       wholesale operations outside of an enclosed building, excluding enclosed and attached
STORAGE,      garden or home centers. Examples include building materials, recreational equipment,
SALES, AND    trailers, portable buildings, auto and truck sales, fleet storage, farm or construction
USE):         equipment, and portable housing sales.
HEIGHT,       See definition of Building Height.
BUILDING:
HOME          Any occupation or activity conducted within a dwelling unit which is incidental and
OCCUPATION:   subordinate to the use of the premises for dwelling purposes.
HOSPITAL,     A medical services facility, including hospitals, medical laboratories, clinics, urgent
CLINIC,       care centers, general medical and surgical hospitals, specialty hospitals, nursing
MEDICAL LAB,  homes, extended care, convalescence homes, and medical office buildings, where patients
MEDICAL       are examined and may include in-house clinical laboratory services and x-ray facilities
OFFICE        for surgery or obstetrical care or other definitive medical treatment of similar extent,
BUILDING,     including physician and dental offices, physical or massage therapists, pharmacies,
URGENT CARE   medical laboratories, rehabilitation, and related uses.
CENTER:
ILLEGAL       A use or structure that did not exist prior to the date of adoption of this Title and
NONCONFORMING was created without the required approval of the City or Tulsa County or created in
USE OR        violation of the applicable codes in effect when the use or structure was established.
STRUCTURE:
INDOOR        Commercial amusement and recreation activities typically conducted indoors that generate
RECREATION    a variety of impacts on adjoining properties by hours of operation, noise, traffic
AND           volume, and the intensity of the use. Examples of typical uses include, but are not
AMUSEMENT,    limited to: billiard parlor, bowling alley, dance hall, indoor theater, arena, and
COMMERCIAL    indoor recreation amusement center. This use category expressly excludes sexually
INTENSIVE:    oriented businesses.
              Refers to the following:
              A.   Any use classified as a “high hazard” occupancy.
              B.   Primary processing or manufacturing, or repair operations not specifically defined
              elsewhere in this Title, that involve:
                 1.   Outdoor storage in an area greater than that of the first floor of buildings on
              the lot;
                 2.   A material risk of environmental contamination, explosion, or fire; or
                 3.   Perceptible ground vibration, excessive noise or dust, emission of objectionable
              odors, or other environmental impacts.
              C.   Processing of minerals, ores, or fossil fuels, excluding precious and semi-precious
              stone cutting for jewelry, or precision instruments, such as watches.
              D.   Industries subject to New Source Review under the Federal Clean Air Act, or subject
              to Title V of the Federal Clean Air Act.
              E.   For illustrative purposes, heavy industrial uses include, but are not limited to:
                 1.   Coal cleaning plants with thermal dryers, coke oven batteries, carbon black
              plants (furnace process), petroleum refineries, petroleum storage and transfer units,
              and bulk fuel dealers.
                 2.   Facilities used for food processing, such as fat rendering and stockyards.
                 3.   Manufacturing and processing of glass, wood, plastics, other raw materials, and
INDUSTRIAL,   chemicals for their transformation into in new products or components.
HEAVY:           4.   Incinerators, foundries, smelting, fertilizer or ammunition manufacturing.
                 5.   Fossil fuel combustion, such as boilers, electricity generation, or smelting.
                 6.   Manufacturing and fabrication of building materials, such as countertops,
              drywall, cut stone; vehicles, manufacturing equipment, durable goods, pre-fabricated
              homes, or home components; plasma arc welding, cutting, gouging, surfacing, or spraying;
              gas welding, arc welding with equipment rated at more than 200 amps, or TIG welding; and
              other heavy welding procedures, such as for structural steel, automotive body, or heavy
              equipment manufacture or repair.
                 7.   Airport/heliport.
                 8.   Dry cleaner processing plants that use PERC or comparable petrochemical
              solvents.
                 9.   Meat or seafood rendering and animal slaughter.
                 10.   Fossil fuel, waste-to-energy, and biomass plants that produce power.
                 11.   Recycling processing and collection.
              F.   Semi-Conductor related uses shall be considered to be a heavy industrial use when
              the use relates to weapons, nuclear energy, pharmaceutical and biotechnology
              applications. If the semi-conductor use relates to applications such as computers and
              software services, mobile telecommunications, and related technology and hardware
              equipment, the use may be considered to be light industrial if the operation of the use
              satisfies all other aspects of the definition of “Light Industrial, Flex Commercial/
              Light Industrial.”
              Refers to industrial, wholesale, and intensive commercial uses that may have limited
              outdoor use, storage, and operations, and have limited environmental impact or risk.
              Typical uses include, but are not limited to, the following:
              A.   Assembly of products, instruments, electronics, office machines, and items from
              pre- manufactured components;
              B.   Auto or marine body, paint, or upholstery services;
              C.   Building, development, and general contracting;
              D.   Communications facilities, except wireless telecommunications facilities;
              E.   Food production, other than restaurants and micro-breweries, and those food
              processing uses expressly cited as Industrial, Heavy;
              F.   Furniture making or refinishing;
              G.   Manufacture of textiles and apparel;
              H.   Printing and publishing, except copy centers;
              I.   Special trade contractors, excluding outside storage of any equipment that is more
              than 12 feet in height;
              J.   Wholesale trade of durable and non-durable products, except farm products and
              combustible or hazardous materials;
INDUSTRIAL,   K.   Uses that involve outside storage of heavy vehicles, with limited environmental
LIGHT, FLEX   impacts or risks, such as truck rental, heavy equipment rental, recreational vehicle or
COMMERCIAL:   manufactured home storage and sales, and transportation or warehouse services; and
              L.   Intensive commercial uses that provide services integral with the operation of an
              industrial center or that require the storage or warehousing of inventory and heavy
              equipment.
              Heavy industrial uses that are small in scale and involve limited environmental impact
              or safety risk may be permitted in this category if:
              •   The use is of high-tech nature involving small scale assembly, such as, but not
              limited to, computer components, data storage, and medical equipment, and where the use
              occupies less than 30,000 square feet and receives and ships via parcel courier service,
              not semi-trailers.
              •   The use occupies less than 30,000 square feet of a masonry building, has no outdoor
              storage, processing, or operations, and receives and ships via parcel courier service,
              not semi-trailers.
              •   The uses are in an industrial park setting and meet all light industrial criteria
              where the aggregate area of uses exceeds 30,000 square feet.
              •   The use involves mini-warehouses with outside storage.
              •   The use is a regional utility substation or distribution station.
              •   The use involves research, a testing lab, or product development.
              To combine things into a form so that they appear to become a whole. Where used
              architecturally, integrated requires screening elements to be adapted into the design of
INTEGRATED:   the building to create a unified building design for one, or a group, of buildings or
              uses. When used in conjunction with site development, integrated refers to parking,
              circulation, landscaping, and other site elements.
              Any facility, excluding an authorized federal, state, or City facility, veterinary
              hospital, or research facility, that is operated commercially where four or more dogs
              beyond the age of six months are kept for the purpose of boarding, sheltering, grooming,
KENNEL:       breeding and/or training with the intent to sell or donate, for a period of more than 60
              days. This definition does not include a private residence nor shall it be interpreted
              to allow a private residence to exceed the limitation on animal ownership set forth by
              City Code.
              The area of a lot or parcel, which for purposes of the minimum area requirements of this
LAND AREA:    Title, is calculated as the area of the lot, plus one half, or 30 feet, whichever is
              less, of the right-of-way of any abutting street on which the lot has access.
LANDSCAPED    The unpaved area within a lot which contains grass, shrubs, flowers, ground cover, trees
AREA:         or native plant materials and which may include decorative fixtures such as rocks, pools
              and planters.
              Trees, shrubs, ground cover, vines, unpaved walkways, ponds, fountains, sculpture, and
LANDSCAPING:  other organic and inorganic materials used for creating an attractive appearance. Smooth
              concrete or asphalt surfaces are not landscaping.
LEGAL         A use or structure that was in existence prior to the date of adoption of this Title, or
NONCONFORMING when established/constructed subsequent to that date, conformed to the applicable
USE OR        regulations in effect at that time and was rendered nonconforming by an amendment of the
STRUCTURE:    regulations, or was rendered nonconforming as a result of annexation into the City.
LIFE CARE     A residential facility containing dwellings designed for and principally occupied by
RETIREMENT    senior citizens in a planned retirement community, which includes a residential complex,
CENTER:       an activity or community center, or a medical or nursing facility licensed by the State
              of Oklahoma as an intermediate care facility, or a skilled nursing center.
LIGHT         The shining of light produced by a luminaire beyond the boundaries of the property on
TRESPASS:     which it is located.
LIMITED USE,  A land use which is permitted upon City Planner determination that all Limited Use
AUTHORIZATION criteria and other applicable requirements of this Title, and any other relevant City
OF:           codes and ordinances, have been satisfied.
LIVABILITY    The open space of a lot not allocated to or used for off-street parking, loading, or
SPACE:        paved access, or buildings and the physical use of the property.
LOADING       A space designed and located on a lot for the temporary parking of commercial vehicles
BERTH, OFF-   while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
STREET:
              A lot of record on a plat which has been recorded in the office of the Tulsa County
LOT:          Clerk, or a parcel of land on a plat which was recorded in the office of the Tulsa
              County Clerk.
LOT AREA:     The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
LOT LINE:     Any property ownership boundary of a lot or parcel.
LOT LINE,
EXTERIOR      The boundary of a corner lot that sides onto a second street.
SIDE:
              The boundary of a lot which abuts a public street. Where the lot abuts more than one
LOT LINE,     street, the plat shall be consulted as to which lot line is designated as a front or
FRONT:        exterior side lot line. If not specified on the plat, the principal structure should be
              oriented in a manner appropriate with the orientation of the surrounding principal
              structures and other lots in the vicinity.
LOT LINE,     The boundary of a lot which is distant from and most nearly parallel to the front lot
REAR:         line.
LOT LINE,     Any boundary of a lot which is not a front, rear, or exterior side lot line.
SIDE:
LOT OF        A lot which is a part of a subdivision where a plat was recorded by the County Clerk of
RECORD:       Tulsa County, or a parcel of land in which the deed was recorded by the County Clerk of
              Tulsa County.
LOT WIDTH:    The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
MAJOR STREET  The City of Glenpool Major Street and Highway Plan, as adopted by City Council, as may
AND HIGHWAY   be amended.
PLAN:
MANUFACTURED  A tract of land designed or being used to accommodate two or more manufactured homes as
HOME PARK:    dwelling units, as defined herein, for dwelling or sleeping purposes, with pads
              available on a rental or lease basis.
MANUFACTURED  A tract of land subdivided into lots for manufactured homes, each of which will be
HOME          served by separate utilities, have frontage on a dedicated public street, and be capable
SUBDIVISION:  of being sold or rented.
              A building containing small partitioned storage spaces, which are separately and
MINI-STORAGE: individually rented or leased, for the storage of personal goods or merchandise, but
              excluding commercial warehousing.
              Development in which a combination of residential and commercial uses, such as
MIXED USE:    residential uses as second story uses over ground level retail uses, or several
              classifications of commercial uses, such as office and retail, or a business park, are
              located on the same parcel proposed for development.
MOBILE HOME:  See definition of “Dwelling, Mobile Home”.
MOBILE HOME   An area zoned and established to provide one or more parking spaces intended for mobile
PARK:         home occupancy, usually providing utilities and public amenities.
              A home for independent living with support personnel that provides room and board,
              personal care and habilitation services in a family environment as a single housekeeping
NEIGHBORHOOD  unit for not more than five resident developmentally disabled and/or physically limited
GROUP HOME:   persons with at least one but not more than two resident staff persons. Personal care
              and habilitation services exclude on site institutional type educational training or
              medical or nursing care.
              A residential healthcare facility licensed and regulated by the State of Oklahoma which
NURSING HOME: provides lodging, personal care and supervision for aged, chronically ill, physically
              infirm, or convalescent patients.
              Uses performed in an office, or office-like setting, in which professional, outpatient
OFFICE,       medical, or financial services are provided. The term includes accounting, auditing and
GENERAL:      bookkeeping, graphic design, interior design, architecture, engineering, legal services,
              mortgage services, insurance and financial services, computer programming, counseling,
              medical/dental/ chiropractic offices, real estate sales, and virtual office services.
              A flood having an average frequency of occurrence once in 100 years, although the flood
100-YEAR      may occur in any year, based on statistical analyses of stream flow records available
FREQUENCY     for the watershed and analyses of rainfall and runoff characteristics in the general
FLOOD:        region of the watershed, as predicted by FEMA, as depicted on FIRMmaps, or as predicted
              by the U.S. Corps of Engineers and interpreted by the City Engineer.
OPAQUE:       Non-transparent and not able to be seen through on a year round basis.
OUTDOOR       Commercial recreation activities typically conducted outdoors that generate a variety of
RECREATION,   impacts on adjoining properties by outdoor lighting, noise, traffic volume, and the
COMMERCIAL    intensity of the use. Examples of typical uses include, but are not limited to,
INTENSIVE:    commercial campground, recreation vehicle park, race track, drive-in theater, golf
              driving range, carnival, or fairgrounds.
              Recreation sites or facilities such as public parks, Homeowner Association operated
OUTDOOR       facilities, designated public or commonly shared open space, golf courses, swimming
RECREATION,   pools, and tennis courts, typically located in or near neighborhoods, but do not include
PUBLIC:       shooting ranges, amusement parks, carnivals, or similar forms of recreation that are
              incompatible with residential and public uses.
              A principal use where products and inventory are displayed, stored, and sold outdoors
OUTDOOR SALES because of their size, mass, or quantity. Examples include plant nurseries, automobile
AND DISPLAY:  dealerships, recreational equipment dealerships, or agricultural implements. This
              definition does not pertain to seasonal sales, temporary sales, or any other short term
              or temporary outdoor use permitted in this Title.
              A building lot subdivided from a larger “parent” principal parcel, the combination of
              which functions as an integrated development that shares access, driveways, signs,
              landscaping, and off-street parking. The term is synonymous with the term “out-lot” and
OUT-PARCEL:   is typical with large scale integrated commercial developments. Out-parcels vary in
              size, may be platted lots or lease areas, but are generally smaller than 10 acres and
              often used as a restaurant, bank, drug store, or small scale retail or service use. It
              is typical for integrated developments to have multiple out-parcels with a variety of
              sizes.
OVERLAY       Zoning, applied over one or more other districts, creates a second, mapped zone that is
DISTRICT:     superimposed over the conventional zoning districts. Overlay districts, when used,
              typically provide a higher level of regulation than conventional zoning districts.
OVERSPEED     A mechanism used to limit the speed of blade rotation to below the design limits of the
CONTROL:      Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS).
PARKING       The length of time an individual vehicle remains in a given parking space. Duration is a
DURATION:     function of the driver’s trip and purpose.
PARKING       A space on a lot intended and reserved for the parking of an automobile, together with a
SPACE, OFF-   driveway connecting the space with a street or alley and permitting safe ingress or
STREET:       egress of an automobile.
              An establishment that regularly engages in the short term loan of money on deposit of
PAWNSHOP /    personal property or the possession of personal property on condition of selling the
SHORT TERM    same back again to the pledger, or that loans or advances money on personal property by
FINANCING:    taking chattel mortgage security thereon. State and federally chartered banks and
              lending institutions are excluded.
PERSONAL      Uses that generally offer indoor personal care services, including, but not limited to,
SERVICE:      spas, salons, dry cleaners, craft shops, travel bureaus, fitness centers, and customer
              personal services, but excluding services defined as a sexually oriented business.
              An indoor place where people gather for civic, religious or cultural purposes. The
PLACE OF      phrase “place of assembly” includes place of worship, meeting hall, lecture hall, or a
ASSEMBLY:     place where a fraternal organization meets. The phrase “place of assembly” does not
              include the phrase “indoor recreation” or “indoor commercial amusement.”
              A subdivision that includes a minimum of two housing types that may be clustered around
PLANNED       a greater amount of open space that is used to protect site resources, preserve natural
NEIGHBORHOOD: features, provide recreation area, and to buffer different housing types. A planned
              neighborhood provides for a mixture of housing types.
              A discretionary type of development for a tract of land under single ownership or
PLANNED UNIT  control, based upon an approved development plan permitting flexibility of principal
DEVELOPMENT:  land uses, lot sizes and accessory uses not otherwise available under conventional
              development standards. [See
              Chapter 11.]
PLANNING      The City of Glenpool Planning Commission.
COMMISSION:
PRIVATE CLUB  An association of persons organized for some common purpose, including fraternal
OR LODGE:     organizations, whether incorporated or not, but not including groups organized primarily
              to render a service that is customarily carried on as a business.
PUBLIC/
PRIVATE       An institution that provides full-time instruction for students from kindergarten to
SCHOOL        12th grade.
(GRADES K-
12):
RECREATIONAL  A vehicular-type unit primarily designed as temporary living quarters for recreational,
VEHICLE:      camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or drawn
              by another vehicle.
RECREATIONAL  A plot of land upon which two or more recreational vehicle sites are located,
VEHICLE PARK: established, or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles.
REFUSE        A collection facility for garbage, paper, cartons, boxes, metals, glass and similar
CONTAINER:    materials. Dumpsters and trash compactors are examples of refuse containers.
RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT,  A business that engages in research and development of innovative ideas in technology-
RESEARCHING   intensive fields, with product testing, scientific research, evaluation, and test
AND TESTING   marketing.
LABORATORIES:
RESIDENTIAL   A facility that provides custodial care to persons who, because of physical, mental, or
CARE          emotional disorders, are not able to live independently.
FACILITY:
RESIDENTIAL   A community based residential facility providing diagnostic or therapeutic services and
TREATMENT     long term room and board in a highly structured environment for its residents for
CENTER:       substance abuse, mental illness, or behavioral disorders, as regulated by the State of
              Oklahoma.
ROOMING AND   A facility wherein congregate meals and lodging are provided to residents exclusive of a
BOARDING      supervised living or residential care facility and exclusive of a hotel or motel.
HOUSE:
              A yard, lot or place, covered or uncovered, outdoors or in an enclosed building,
              containing salvage or junk, upon which occurs one or more acts of buying, storing,
              dismantling, processing, recycling, selling, or offering for sale any such salvage, in
SALVAGE YARD: units or in parts, for a business or a commercial purpose. Wrecking yards used for the
              dismantling of cars and other equipment constitute a potential public nuisance and will
              only be considered if an applicant demonstrates that such a facility can be operated in
              a manner that would not constitute a nuisance.
SATELLITE     Any parabolic antenna positioned to receive a signal from a satellite in a
RECEIVING     geosynchronous orbit.
DISH:
SCREEN:       A fence, wall, or hedge designed to obstruct public view of a storage or other area.
              A horizontal distance determining the location of a building with respect to a street,
SETBACK:      use district boundary line, or another use. Where the term “setback” is used in
              conjunction with a modifying word or words such as “parking area”, the setback shall, in
              its application, include, but not be limited to, buildings.
SELF-STORAGE  A structure containing separate storage spaces, which may be of various sizes, leased or
FACILITY,     rented on an individual basis, with all units being accessible from within the facility,
INTERIOR      with no access to outdoor roll up doors or storage lockers.
ACCESS:
SELF-STORAGE
FACILITY,     A structure containing separate storage spaces, which may be of various sizes, leased or
EXTERIOR      rented on an individual basis, which may have interior and/or exterior access.
ACCESS:
SHOPPING      A group of retail, service, or office uses managed as a single entity to serve a broad
CENTER;       region of the City and surrounding area.
GENERAL:
SHOPPING      A group of retail, service, or office uses managed as a single entity to serve residents
CENTER,       primarily within the immediate area of the center.
NEIGHBORHOOD:
              Any object or device or part thereof situated outdoors or indoors used to advertise,
              identify, display, direct, or attract attention to an object, person, institution,
SIGN:         organization, business, product, service, event, or location by any means. Signs do not
              include official flags of governments or of fraternal, religious or civic organizations,
              window displays, time and temperature devices, murals or works of art, or scoreboards on
              athletic fields.
              A use or a design element of a use which is not permitted by right in a particular
              district because of potential adverse effects, but which, if controlled in the
SPECIAL       particular instance as to its relationship to the neighborhood and to the general
EXCEPTION:    welfare, may be permitted by the Board of Adjustment, where specifically authorized by
              this Title, and in accordance with the substantive and procedural standards of this
              Title.
              A use or a design element which is not permitted by right in a particular district
              because of potential adverse effects, but which, if designed and operated in a manner
SPECIAL USE   that is sensitive to its relationship to surrounding uses, may be permitted by the City
PERMIT:       Council, following review and a recommendation from the Planning Commission where
              specifically authorized by this Title, and in accordance with the substantive and
              procedural standards of this Title.
STORAGE OR    A use engaged in storage or manufacturing that uses flammable, noxious, or explosive
USE OF        materials. Typical uses include, but are not limited to, chemical manufacturing and
FLAMMABLE OR  warehousing, fat rendering, fertilizer manufacturing, the manufacture and warehousing of
NOXIOUS       fireworks and other explosives, petroleum refineries, pulp processing and paper product
MATERIALS OR  manufacturing, processes using radioactive materials, steel works, slaughter houses, and
SUBSTANCES:   tanneries.
STREET WALL:  The wall or part of the building nearest to the street line.
STREET YARD:  The minimum required yard abutting a public street or the area of a lot contained
              between the minimum required building setback line and an abutting public street.
              Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground, or attached to
STRUCTURE:    something having a fixed location on the ground, and includes buildings, walks, fences,
              and signs.
              The commencement of construction of initial permanent physical improvements necessary to
SUBSTANTIAL   construct an overall permitted development project, within the life of the permit that
IMPROVEMENT:  allowed such improvements. Examples of substantial improvements include the pouring of
              slabs or footings and the preparation of a building pad, followed by the continued
              progression of the project to its completion.
TAVERN, NIGHT An establishment where the dispensing and consumption of alcoholic beverages is the
CLUB:         principal use.
TEMPORARY     A temporary or portable structure used for a limited period of time as an administrative
CONSTRUCTION  office for construction related activities occurring on the same lot under an active
STRUCTURE:    building permit. The structure will be removed at a time predetermined with the issuance
              of a Zoning Clearance Permit to allow the structure.
TOP PLATE:    The horizontal timber directly carrying the trusses of a roof or the rafters.
              A community based residential facility that provides short term residential (120 days or
TRANSITIONAL  less) room and board in a supervised living environment utilizing counseling and
LIVING        rehabilitation services for persons with a history of juvenile delinquency, behavioral
CENTER:       disorders, mental illness, alcoholism, or drug abuse, for a period not to exceed 120
              days, as regulated by the State of Oklahoma.
TREE:         A woody plant having one or more defined stems or trunks and having a defined crown and
              customarily attaining a mature height of eight feet or greater.
USABLE FLOOR  All of the floor area in a building or buildings including hallways, but excluding areas
AREA:         of floor devoted to structural or partition walls, stair wells, elevator shafts,
              storage, boiler rooms, and mechanical service rooms.
              A relaxation of a restriction of this Title, granted by the Board of Adjustment, where,
VARIANCE:     by reason of extraordinary or exceptional situation, condition or circumstance of a
              particular property, the literal enforcement of the restriction of this Title would
              result in unnecessary hardship.
VETERINARIAN  A building used exclusively for the care and treatment of animals, including incidental
CLINIC:       overnight boarding of animals within the enclosed building, but excluding outside animal
              runs or boarding services.
WIND ENERGY
CONVERSION
SYSTEM (WECS)
(Wind         A machine that converts the kinetic energy of wind into a usable form of energy. WECS
Turbine, Wind includes all parts of a system except the tower and transmission equipment.
Generator,
Windmill, and
Wind
Machine):
YARD:         An open, unoccupied space on a lot between a building and a lot line.
YARD,
EXTERIOR      A yard extending along the full length of a lot located at the corner of two streets.
SIDE:
YARD, FRONT:  A yard extending along the full length of the front lot line between the side lot lines.
YARD, REAR:   A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot line between the side lot lines.
YARD,         The minimum permitted distance of open unoccupied space between a building and a lot
REQUIRED:     line.
YARD, SIDE:   A yard extending along a side lot line between the required front yard and the required
              rear yard.
ZONING        A permit issued by the Building Official upon the direction of the City Planner after
CLEARANCE     all requirements of this Title have been satisfied. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017; amd. Ord.
PERMIT:       788, 6-21-2021)
 
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
Zoning Districts
11-3-1: Purpose And Applicability
11-3-2: Districts Established
11-3-3: Official Zoning Map
11-3-4: Interpretation of District Boundaries
Land Uses
11-3-5: Purpose
11-3-6: Uses Not Listed
11-3-7: Legend for Zoning / Land Use Matrices
11-3-8: Residential Uses by Zoning District
11-3-9: Nonresidential Uses by Zoning District
Specific And Limited Uses
11-3-10: Purpose and Applicability
11-3-11: Residential Uses
11-3-12: Nonresidential Uses
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
11-3-13: General
11-3-14: Standards
11-3-15: Administration
11-3-16: Subdivision Required
ZONING DISTRICTS
11-3-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of Chapter 3 is to:
      1.   Establish zoning districts;
      2.   Itemize representative residential and nonresidential land uses;
      3.   Specify where each land use is Permitted or Prohibited in each
district, and which uses require Limited Use authorization or Specific Use
Permit approval;
      4.   Show which land uses are allowed as a Temporary Use or as an
Accessory Use; and
      5.   Satisfy the following purposes for each land use classification:
         a.   Agricultural:
            (1)   Preserve and protect agricultural land;
            (2)   Discourage wasteful scattering of development in rural areas;
and
            (3)   Obtain economy of public fund expenditures for improvements
and services.
         b.   Residential:
            (1)   Achieve the residential objectives of the Comprehensive Plan;
            (2)   Protect the character of residential areas by excluding
inharmonious commercial and industrial activities;
            (3)   Achieve a suitable environment for family by permitting in
residential areas appropriate neighborhood facilities, such as places of
worship, schools, and certain cultural and recreational facilities;
            (4)   Preserve openness of the living areas and avoid overcrowding
by requiring minimum yards, open spaces, and lot areas, and by limiting the
bulk of structures;
            (5)   Permit a variety of dwelling types and densities to meet the
varying needs of families; and
            (6)   Control the density of residential development to facilitate
the planning for an economical provision of streets, utilities, and other
public facilities.
         c.   Office:
            (1)   Preserve and promote the development of efficient office
facilities and to maximize the compatibility with other land uses by
establishing bulk and area controls; and
            (2)   Establish districts necessary to provide a variety of office
types.
         d.   Commercial:
            (1)   Achieve the commercial objectives of the Comprehensive Plan;
            (2)   Meet the needs for commercial services and goods of the trade
area;
            (3)   Preserve and promote the development of efficient commercial
facilities and encourage a compatible relationship between commercial
facilities and other land uses;
            (4)   Differentiate the types and purposes of commercial
activities; and
            (5)   Protect the character of commercial districts and their
peculiar suitability for commercial uses.
         e.   Industrial:
            (1)   Achieve the industrial objectives of the Comprehensive Plan;
            (2)   Meet the needs for industrial services and goods of the city
trade area;
            (3)   Preserve and promote the development of efficient industrial
areas;
            (4)   Minimize the adverse effects of industrial uses on other land
uses and thoroughfares by differentiating the types and purposes of industrial
activities; and
            (5)   Protect the character of industrial districts and their
peculiar suitability for industrial uses.
   B.   Applicability. The regulations of this Title apply to all land within
the corporate limits of the City. All land, buildings, structures or
appurtenances within the City that are occupied, used, erected, altered,
removed, placed, demolished or converted shall be occupied, used, erected,
altered, removed, placed, demolished, or converted in conformance with the
regulations prescribed for the zoning district in which such land or building
is located, as provided in this Title. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-3-2: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to implement the Comprehensive Plan and the other purposes of this
Title, the City is divided into the zoning districts set out in
Table 11-3-2 , below. The regulations as set out herein are uniform throughout
each district.
Table 11-3-2
Zoning Districts Established
District Type District Abbreviation District The purpose of this district is
                                             to:
Table 11-3-2
Zoning Districts Established
District Type      District           District             The purpose of this
                   Abbreviation                            district is to:
                                                           Preserve
Agricultural       AG                 Agricultural         agricultural and
                                                           farmstead uses.
                                                           Allow a variety of
                                                           agricultural,
                                                           residential and non-
                                      Planned Unit         residential uses
                  PUD                Development          listed in Tables
                                                           11-3-8 and
                                                           11-3-9, subject to
                                                           the approval of a
                                                           PUD.
Residential Districts
                                                           Allow the
                                                           development and
                                                           conservation of
                                                           single-family
                   RE                 Residential Estate   detached homes in a
                                                           suitable environment
                                                           for family life on
                                                           large parcels of
                                                           land at a low
                                                           population density.
                                                           Allow conventional
                   RS-1               Single-Family Low    subdivisions of
                                      Density              single-family
                                                           detached dwellings.
Residential Single                                         Allow conventional
Family             RS-2               Single-Family Medium subdivisions of
                                      Density              single-family
                                                           detached dwellings.
                                                           Allow conventional
                   RS-3               Single-family High   subdivisions of
                                      Density              single-family
                                                           detached dwellings.
                                                           Allow a variety of
                                                           single-family
                                                           detached dwellings,
                                      Planned Unit         along with
                   PUD                Development          appropriate non-
                                                           residential uses, on
                                                           a variety of lot
                                                           sizes subject to the
                                                           approval of a PUD.
                                                           Allow duplex
                   RD                 Duplex               development on
                                                           single lots.
                                                           Allow the
                                                           development and
                                                           conservation of low
                                      Multi-family Low     density multi-family
                   RM-1               Density              dwelling types, such
                                                           as garden homes and
                                                           townhouses, in
                                                           suitable
                                                           environments.
                                                           Allow the
                                                           development and
                                                           conservation of
                                                           multi-family
                                      Multi-family Medium  dwelling types, such
                   RM-2               Density              as garden
                                                           apartments,
                                                           townhomes, and
                                                           apartments, in
Residential Multi-                                         suitable
family                                                     environments.
                                                           Allow the
                                                           development of
                                                           single-family
                                      Multi-family         attached townhouse
                   RMT                Townhouse            dwellings, on
                                                           separate lots, which
                                                           are designed
                                                           expressly for
                                                           separate ownership.
                                                           Allow a variety of
                                                           single- and/or
                                                           multi-family
                                                           dwelling types,
                                                           along with
                   PUD                Planned Unit         appropriate non-
                                      Development          residential uses, on
                                                           a variety of lot
                                                           sizes and lot
                                                           widths, subject to
                                                           the approval of a
                                                           PUD.
                                                           Allow mobile homes
                                      Mobile Home Park     in a mobile home
                   RMH                                     park.
Residential        [PUD is not        Manufactured Home    Allow HUD code
Manufactured Home  permitted in any   Subdivision          manufactured homes
                   RMH zone except by                      on subdivided lots.
                   special exception] Manufactured Home    Allow manufactured
                                      Park                 homes in a park
                                                           layout.
Nonresidential Districts
                                                           Allow the
                                                           development and
                   OL                 Office Low Intensity preservation of low
                                                           intensity office
                                                           development.
                                                           Allow area for
                                                           offices, with
                                                           certain community
                                                           facilities normally
                                                           compatible with
                                      Office Medium        primary office uses,
                   OM                 Intensity            to preserve existing
                                                           medium intensity
Office                                                     office development
                                                           and to facilitate
                                                           the development of
                                                           new medium intensity
                                                           office areas.
                                                           Allow a variety of
                                                           office, multi-family
                                                           residential, and
                                      Planned Unit         low-impact
                   PUD                Development (Mixed   commercial uses to
                                      Use)                 create mixed-use
                                                           development, subject
                                                           to the approval of a
                                                           PUD.
                                                           Allow a range of
                                                           neighborhood
                                                           convenience and
                                                           regional shopping
                   CS                 Commercial Shopping  centers to provide a
                                      Center               wide range of retail
                                                           and personal service
                                                           uses where all uses
                                                           generally occur
                                                           indoors.
                                                           Allow a broad range
Commercial                                                 of more intensive
                   CG                 Commercial General   commercial uses that
                                                           may have outdoor
                                                           use, display, or
                                                           storage.
                                                           Allow a variety of
                                                           CS and/or CG, office
                                      Planned Unit         and residential uses
                   PUD                Development (Mixed   to create mixed-use
                                      Use)                 development, subject
                                                           to the approval of a
                                                           PUD
                                                           Allow an office,
                                                           research, and
                                      Light Manufacturing  technology park with
                   IL                 Research and         enhanced site and
                                      Development          building standards
                                                           to create a high
                                                           quality, campus-like
                                                           employment center.
                                                           Allow a variety of
                                                           IL, CG , OL and OM
                                                           uses to create
                                                           mixed-use
                                      Planned Unit         development, subject
Industrial         PUD                Development (Mixed   to the approval of a
                                      Use)                 PUD. Generally, not
                                                           suitable for
                                                           residential uses
                                                           though not
                                                           prohibited.
                                                           Allow industrial and
                                                           heavy commercial
                   IM                                      uses that may
                   [PUD is not                             include
                   permitted in an IM Industrial, Moderate manufacturing,
                   Zone except by                          fabrication,
                   special exception]                      processing, and
                                                           warehousing with
                                                           outdoor operations.
Special Districts
                   PUD
Planned Unit       [PUD is not                             Allow a variety of
Development        permitted in an IM Planned - Mixed Use  uses subject to the
                   Zone except by                          approval of a PUD.
                   special exception]
 
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017; amd. Ord. 788, 6-21-2021)
11-3-3: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Official Zoning Map. The locations and boundaries of the various
districts as defined herein shall be established by ordinance and shall be
shown and delineated on the Official Zoning Map. The Official Zoning Map shall
be maintained by the City Planner and may be divided into parts, and such parts
may be separately employed for identification purposes when adopting or
amending the Official Zoning Map or for any reference to the Official Zoning
Map.
   B.   Incorporation by Reference. The boundaries of the zoning districts set
out in this Chapter are delineated upon the Official Zoning Map of the City,
with such map being adopted as a part of this Title as fully as if the same
were set forth herein in detail.
   C.   Zoning Map Amendment. No changes or amendments to the district
boundaries shown on the Official Zoning Map shall be made except in compliance
and conformity with all procedures set forth in Chapter 9 of this Title. If, in
accordance with those procedures, changes or amendments are made to district
boundaries, such changes or amendments shall be made promptly on the Official
Zoning Map after official adoption of the change or amendment. (Ord. 746, 11-
14-2017)
11-3-4: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   The district boundary lines shown on the Official Zoning Map are
usually along streets, alleys, property lines or their extensions. Where
uncertainty exists as to the precise boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following streets, highways or
alleys shall be construed to follow the centerline of such street, highway or
alley.
      2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lines.
      3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the city limits
shall be construed as following city limits.
      4.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
drainage ways or creeks shall be construed to follow such centerline.
      5.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in this Section shall be so construed. Distances not specifically
indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the City Planner
from the graphic scale on the map.
      6.   Whenever any street, alley or other public right-of-way is vacated
by official action of the City Council, the zoning district line adjoining each
side of such street, alley, or other public way shall automatically extend to
the centerline of such vacated street, alley, public right-of-way, and all area
so involved, and shall henceforth be subject to all regulations of the extended
districts.
      7.   Where physical features on the ground are at variance with
information shown on the Official Zoning Map, or when there arises a question
as to how, or whether, a parcel of property is zoned, and such question cannot
be resolved by the application of the preceding criteria of this Section, the
property shall be considered to be zoned as Agricultural (AG) and shall be
subject to the provisions of that zoning district.
   B.   Description. District boundary lines shall be described by legal
description or by a map. When a legal description is used, the boundary line
shall automatically extend to the centerline of abutting streets and shall be
so designated on the Official Zoning Map. When a map is used, district boundary
lines shall be established by dimensions, property lines, recorded lot lines,
or the centerlines of abutting streets, alleys, or railroad rights-of-way, as
the same were of record at the time of adoption.
   C.   Interpretation. In all cases where there is doubt as to the exact
location of district boundary lines, the same shall be determined by the Board
of Adjustment. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
LAND USES
11-3-5: PURPOSE:
Table 11-3-8, Residential Uses by Zoning District, and
Table 11-3-9, Nonresidential Uses by Zoning District, hereafter referred to as
the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, list zoning districts and representative land
uses. Each table specifies permitted uses (uses allowed by right), limited uses
(uses allowed subject to compliance with special standards), Specific Use
Permit uses (uses allowed subject to compliance with special standards and the
review and approval of the Planning Commission and City Council, respectively),
and prohibited uses (uses not allowed), in each district. (Ord. 746, 11-14-
2017)
11-3-6: USES NOT LISTED:
   A.   Authorization of Proposed Use. If a use is not specified in the Zoning/
Land Use Matrices, the City Planner shall make a determination as to whether
the proposed use is either a subcategory of a permitted, limited, specific, or
prohibited use, or if the use is functionally similar to a permitted, limited,
specific, or prohibited use. Upon making a determination, the City Planner
shall either authorize the proposed use and apply all standards applicable to
the similar use, or prohibit the proposed use if the use is deemed comparable
to a prohibited use.
   B.   If Not Authorized, Then Prohibited. If the City Planner determines that
a proposed use is not a subcategory of, or functionally similar to, a
permitted, limited, or specific use, then the use shall be considered to be a
prohibited use.
   C.   Decision Criteria. The following decision criteria shall be evaluated
by the City Planner to decide whether a proposed use is a subcategory of, or is
functionally similar to, a permitted, limited, or specific use. Upon any appeal
from the decision of the City Planner, the Board of Adjustment shall make the
same evaluation.
      1.   Application of Section
11-2-2, Definitions, when applicable;
      2.   Nature of the use, potential impacts on surrounding properties,
hours of operation, or a plan of operation describing the use;
      3.   Off-street parking and traffic generation characteristics of the
use; and
      4.   Any other reasonable and pertinent criteria that the City Planner,
or the Board of Adjustment when deciding an appeal, determines necessary to
make a determination.
   D.   Findings of Fact and Effect of Decision. The following conditions shall
govern the City Planner, and the Board of Adjustment upon any appeal from the
decision of the City Planner, upon issuance of an unlisted land use
interpretation:
      1.   No unlisted use interpretation shall permit any use unless evidence
is presented which demonstrates that it will comply with each use limitation
established for the particular district;
      2.   No unlisted use interpretation shall permit any use unless such use
is substantially similar to, and compatible with, other uses permitted in the
district, and is more similar to such other uses than to permitted, limited, or
specific uses in a more restrictive district;
      3.   If the proposed use is most similar to a use permitted only as a
limited or specific use in the district in which it is proposed to be located,
then any use interpretation permitting such use shall be conditioned on
obtaining a limited use approval or a specific use permit approval, as
applicable;
      4.   If the City Planner approves an application for a decision pursuant
to this Section, then the use shall be allowed subject to the same standards
and procedures of the zoning district to which it was compared for the purposes
of the favorable decision; and
      5.   If the City Planner determines that a proposed use is not a
subcategory of, or functionally similar to a use permitted in the district
where the property is located, the proposed use shall be prohibited in that
district, and findings of fact for such decision shall be prepared for the
applicant and official City records. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-3-7: LEGEND FOR ZONING / LAND USE MATRICES:
   A.   Using the Tables. The tables in this Subchapter are divided into
residential uses and nonresidential uses. Within each table, representative
land uses are listed in rows in alphabetical order. Zoning districts are
arranged in columns. Where rows and columns intersect, a letter indicates if
the use is permitted, limited, special, or prohibited in the district, as set
out below, and if allowed as an accessory use or for a temporary time period.
   B.   Symbols. The tables in this Subchapter use the following symbols:
      1.   “P”, means that the land use is a Permitted Use, subject to all
other provisions of this Title.
A permitted use as of right may nevertheless require an application and payment
of application fee.
      2.   “L”, means that the land use is a Limited Use, which is permitted
and may be administratively approved by the City Planner subject to:
         a.   All standards for permitted uses set out in this Title;
         b.   Applicable Limited Use standards for the specified use set out in
Chapter 3, Subchapter 3, Specific and Limited Uses; and
         c.   All applicable processes and procedures set out in Chapters 8 and
9 of this Title.
      3.   “S”, means that the land use is a Specific Use which is allowed once
granted a Specific Use Permit, which may be approved following a public hearing
conducted by the Planning Commission and a subsequent public hearing conducted
by the City Council, as set out in Section
11-9-13, Specific Use Permit, and subject to:
         a.   All development standards set out in this Title;
         b.   Applicable Specific Use Permit requirements set out in Subchapter
3, Specific and Limited Uses; and
         c.   All applicable processes and procedures set out in Chapters 8 and
9 of this Title.
      4.   “E”, means that the land use is allowed only if granted a Special
Exception, which may be approved by the Board of Adjustment following a public
hearing, as set out in Section
11-9-19, Special Exceptions.
      5.   “-“, means that the land use is a Prohibited Use in the specified
zoning district.
      6.   “T”, means that the land use is permitted on a Temporary basis,
subject to all provisions of this Title and the time limitations established by
this Title, the Zoning Clearance Permit, and/or the Certificate of Occupancy.
      7.   “A”, means that the land use is permitted as an Accessory use,
subject to all accessory use provisions of Chapter 5, Accessory Use and
Building Standards.
      8.   Symbols may be combined where necessary, such as, but not limited
to, “LA”, Limited Accessory Use, or “TS”, Temporary - Specific Use Permit.
      9.   Any use may be considered for inclusion in a Planned Unit
Development (PUD). The Zoning/Land Use Matrices reflect those uses particularly
suitable for most PUDs. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-3-8: RESIDENTIAL USES BY ZONING DISTRICT:
TABLE 11-3-8
Residential Uses by Zoning District
         Zoning Districts
Land Use Agricultural / Residential                  Nonresidential    PUD
         AG RE RS-1 RS-2 RS-3 RD RM- 1 RM- 2 RMT RMH OL OM CS CG IL IM PUD
             Zoning Districts
Land Use     Agricultural / Residential                   Nonresidential    PUD
             AG RE  RS-1 RS-2 RS-3 RD RM- 1 RM- 2 RMT RMH OL OM CS CG IL IM PUD
Accessory
Dwelling     L  L   L    L    L    -  -     -     -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Unit
Bed and
Breakfast    P  P   L    L    L    -  -     -     L   -   L  -  -  -  -  -  P
Inn
Community    E  E   E    E    EP   E  E     E     E   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  E
Group Home
Day Care     P  L   L    L    L    E  -     -     -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P
Center
Dwelling,
Apartment    -  -   -    -    -    -  -     S     -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P
(7+ dwelling
units)
Dwelling,    -  -   -    -    -    P  P     P     P   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P
Duplex
Dwelling,
Lot Line     P  -   -    -    -    P  P     P     P   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P
(Patio)
Dwelling,    P  P   P    P    P    P  P     P     P   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P
Modular
Dwelling,
Multiplex
(3-          -  -   -    -    -    P  P     P     P   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P
5 dwelling
units)
Dwelling,
Single-      P  P   P    P    P    -  -     -     -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P
family
Dwelling,
Townhome (3- -  -   -    -    -    P  P     P     P   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P
6 dwelling
units)
Elderly /
Retirement   -  -   -    -    -    E  E     E     E   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P
Home
Family Day   L  L   L    L    L    L  L     L     L   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P
Care Home
Foster Home  L  L   L    L    L    L  L     L     L   L   -  -  -  -
Home         P  E   E    E    E    E  E     E     E   E   -  -  -  -  -  -  P
Occupation
Life Care
Retirement   P  -   -    -    -    -  P     P     P   -   P  P  -  -  -  -  P
Center
Manufactured
Home Park or P- -   -    -    -    -  -     -     -   P   -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Subdivision,
RV Park
Neighborhood P  L   L    L    L    L  L     L     -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  E
Group Home
Protective
Shelter,     P  P   -    -    -    -  L     L     -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  -
Emergency
Residential
Care         L  L   L    L    L    L  L     L     L   L   -  -  -  -  -  -  E
Facility
Residential
Treatment    E  E   E    S    S    -  -     -     -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  E
Center
Rooming and
Boarding     LA L A LA   LA   LA   -  -     -     -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -
House
Transitional
Living       L  S   S    S    S    -  -     -     -   -   S  S  -  -  P  P  P
Center
 
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017; amd. Ord. 788, 6-21-2025)
11-3-9: NONRESIDENTIAL USES BY ZONING DISTRICT:
 
TABLE 11-3-9
Nonresidential Uses by Zoning District
         Zoning Districts
Land Use Agricultural / Residential                Nonresidential    PUD
         AG RE RS-1 RS-2 RS-3 RD RM-1 RM-2 RMT RMH OL OM CS CG IL IM PUD
                   Zoning Districts
Land Use           Agricultural / Residential           Nonresidential      PUD
                   AG RE RS- RS- RS- RD RM- RM- RMT RMH OL OM CS CG  IL IM  PUD
                         1   2   3      1   2
Adult Day Care,    E  E  E   E   E   E  E   E   E   -   E  E  -  -   -  -   P
Care Home
Alcohol Sales,
Off-Site           -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   -  -   -
Consumption
Assisted Living,   P  -  -   -   -   -  P   P   P   -   P  P  -  -   -  -   P
Congregate Care
Automobile, Major  P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P   P  P   -
Service
Automobile, Minor  P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   P  P   -
Service
Automobile, Rental P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P   -  -   -
or Sale
Bank, Financial    P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   P  P  P  P   P  -   P
Institution
Business Park      P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P   P  P   P
Cemetery           P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  -   E
Child Care Center  P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   P  P  P  P   P  P   P
Church/Other House P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  -   P
of Worship
College,
Technical, or      P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   P  P  P  P   P  P   P
Vocation School
Commercial Drive-
In / Drive-Through P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P
Food
Concrete, Asphalt  -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  TS  TS T P -
Batching Temporary
Concrete, Asphalt  -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  E   -
Batching Permanent
Construction       P- -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P   -  P   -
Services
Convenience Retail P- -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   L  L  P  P   P  P   P
and Service                                             A  A
Craft Brew /
Restaurant, Wine   P- -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   P  P   P
Tasting
Detention /
Correctional       S- -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  P   S
Facility
Drilling/Operation S  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  -   S
of Oil/Gas Wells
Drive-In Theatre   S  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  -   -
Electric           P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  -   -
Regulating Station
Essential Services P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P   P   -   P  P  P  P   P  P   P
Extraction (Gas,
Gravel, Minerals,  S  S  S   S   S   S  S   S   S   S   S  S  S  S   S  S   S
Oil, Sand)
Food Processing    P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P   P  P   S-
Funeral Home,      P- -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   P  -   S
Mortuary
Farm, Agricultural P  P  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  P   P
Gas Station        P- -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   P  P   P
Golf Course        S  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  -   S
Grocery            P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   -
Heavy Retail       P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P   P  P   P
Heliport,          A  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   A  A  A  A   A  A   A
Accessory
Hospital, Clinic,
Lab, Medical       -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   P  P  P  P   -  -   P
Office
Hotel, Motel       P- -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   P  P  P  P   -  -   P
Indoor Recreation
and Amusement,     P- -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   P  P   P
Commercial
Intensive
Indoor Recreation,
Fitness, Health    P- -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   P  P  P  P   -  -   P
Club
Industrial, Heavy  -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  E   -
Industrial, Light, -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   P  P   P
Flex Commercial
Kennel             L- -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P   P  P   S
Landfill           -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -       -  -  -  -   -  E   -
(Disposal)
Library            -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P   P  P   E
Lumberyard         -  -  -   -   -   -  P   P-  -   -   P  P  P  P   -  -   S
Medical Marijuana  -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   P  P  P  P   P  P   P
Mining, Quarry,    S  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   P  P   E
Earth Extraction
Museum or Art      P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P  P  -  -   -  -   P
Gallery
Nursery of Trees,
Shrubs; Green      -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P   P      P
House
Nursing,           P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  L  L A -  -   P
Convalescent Home                                             A
Office, General    -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   -  -   P
Outdoor
Recreation,        -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  S  S   S  S   -
Commercial
Intensive
Outdoor            P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P  P  P  P   P  P   P
Recreation, Public
Outdoor Sales and  -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   P  P  P  P   -  -   -
Display, Permanent
Outdoor Sales and  P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   -  -  -  -   -  -   -
Display, Seasonal
Pawnshop, Short    -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   P  P   E
Term Financing
Personal Services  -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   L  L  P  P   P  P   P
Place of Assembly  P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   -  -   -
Private Club       -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  E   E
Public / Private   -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P   P  P   E
School1
Research, Testing
Lab, Product       -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   P  P   E
Development
Restaurant         -  -  E   E   E   E  E   E   E   E   -  -  P  P   -  -   P
Retail Plant       -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  E   E
Nursery
Salvage Facility   -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  -   -
Self-Storage
Facility, Exterior -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P   P  P   -
Access
Self-Storage
Facility, Interior S  S  S   S   S   S  S   S   S   S   S  S  L  L   P  P   P
Access
Shopping Center:   TS -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  TS TS  TS TS  P
Neighborhood
Shopping Center:   L  L  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  L   L  L   P
General Retail
Storage of
Flammable or       -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  E   -
Noxious Substances
Tavern, Night Club P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   -  -   E
Telecommunication, L  L  L   L   L   L  L   L   L   L   P  P  P  P   P  P   P
Mounted Antenna
Telecommunication, S  S  S   S   S   S  S   S   S   S   S  S  L  L   P  P   E
Wireless Tower
Temporary Open Air
Carnival, Circus,  TS -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  TS TS  TS TS  -
Event
Wind Energy        L  L  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  L   L  L   -
Conversion System
Vending Kiosk, ATM -  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P   P  P   P
Veterinary Clinic  P  -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P   P  P   P
 
NOTE:
1  High Schools shall have their principal vehicular entrance and exit on an
arterial street, as set out on the Major Street and Highway Plan.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017; amd. Ord. 788, 6-21-2021; Ord. 814, 5-15-2023; Ord. 816,
9-18-2023)
SPECIFIC AND LIMITED USES
11-3-10: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Subchapter is to promote compatibility
among land uses in the City by setting out specific standards for the
establishment of the Limited Use and Specific Use Permit uses identified in the
Zoning/Land Use Matrices.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Uses shown in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices as Limited Use “L” or
Limited Accessory Use “LA” may be approved by the City Planner if they meet the
general requirements set out in this Subchapter and all other applicable
standards of this Title.
      2.   Uses shown in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices as Specific Use Permit
“S” may be approved if they meet any applicable general requirements set out in
this Subchapter and all other applicable standards of this Title, and subject
to the granting of a Specific Use Permit, as set out in Section
11-9-13, Specific Use Permit.
      3.   Uses shown in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices as Specific Use Permit
“S” that are not subject to any specific general requirements set out in this
Subchapter are subject to conditions of approval, as set out in Subsection D
below, as well as the requirements set out in Section
11-9-13, Specific Use Permit, and all other applicable standards of this Title.
   C.   General Standards for Limited Uses. A Limited Use may be approved by
the City Planner if, in addition to meeting the standards for the use cited in
this Subchapter, the applicant demonstrates that the use:
      1.   In its proposed location, will not conflict with the implementation
of the Comprehensive Plan or any other plan adopted by the City; and
      2.   Is compatible with surrounding land uses and will not materially
detract from the character of the immediate area or negatively affect
anticipated development or redevelopment of the surrounding area.
The City Planner may refer any Limited Use application to the Planning
Commission for a decision. Upon referral, the Commission may approve, approve
subject to conditions, or deny the application. Such decision shall be final.
   D.   General Standards for Specific Use Permits. An application for a
Specific Use Permit may be approved, approved subject to conditions, or denied
by the City Council upon receiving a recommendation from the Planning
Commission based on the following criteria:
      1.   The ability of the use to comply with any applicable regulations
that may be stipulated in this Subchapter;
      2.   Any conflict the use, in its proposed location, could create with
the implementation of the Comprehensive Plan or any other plan adopted by the
City;
      3.   The ability of the use to be compatible with surrounding land uses,
blend into and not detract from the character of the immediate area, and not
negatively affect anticipated development or redevelopment of the surrounding
area; and
      4.   Any other criteria the Commission or Council determine to be
reasonable and necessary to ensure the use is appropriate in the proposed
location. Such decision by the City Council shall be final. (Ord. 746, 11-14-
2017)
11-3-11: RESIDENTIAL USES:
As indicated for each use, the following standards apply either to residential
Limited Uses that are approved by the City Planner, subject to potential
referral to the Planning Commission, or to residential uses that require
Specific Use Permit approval by the City Council, upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission, or to both. Specific uses are also subject to any other
conditions of approval necessary to satisfy the criteria set out in Subsection
D, General Standards for Specific Use Permits, above.
   A.   Institutional Residential Uses.
      1.   Community Group Home may be allowed as a limited or specific use, as
specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if:
         a.   A license is issued by the Oklahoma Health Department;
         b.   The use complies with all contracting requirements of the State
of Oklahoma Department of Human Services for group homes for developmentally
challenged persons;
         c.   No signs advertising the home are posted on the property;
         d.   No exterior alterations to the dwelling or any accessory
structures are made which would detract from the residential character of the
dwelling or structure;
         e.   Fire escapes, if required, are located on the rear of the
structure, if architecturally feasible, or on the side of the structure and
screened from the view of adjoining residential properties;
         f.   To avoid clustering, the community group home is not located on a
lot within one quarter mile of any other lot containing a neighborhood group
home, a community group home, a residential treatment center, a transitional
living center, an emergency or protective shelter, or detention or correctional
facility; and
         g.   A Zoning Clearance Permit is issued, which would automatically be
revoked upon the revocation of any license or other approval issued by the
State of Oklahoma.
      2.   Emergency Protective Shelter may be allowed as a limited or specific
use, as specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if:
          a.   To avoid clustering, the emergency protective shelter is not
located on a lot within one quarter mile from any other lot containing a
residential care center, transitional living center, emergency protective
shelter or any lot containing a neighborhood group home, community group home,
or detention/correctional facility; and
         b.   A Zoning Clearance Permit is issued, which would automatically be
revoked upon revocation of any license or other approval issued by the State of
Oklahoma.
      3.   Life Care Retirement Center may be allowed as a limited or specific
use, as specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if the nursing facility or
medical facility is licensed by the Oklahoma Health Department as an
intermediate care facility or as a skilled nursing home.
      4.   Neighborhood Group Home may be allowed as a limited or specific use,
as specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if:
         a.   A license is issued by the Oklahoma Health Department;
         b.   The use will comply with all contracting requirements of the
Oklahoma Department of Human Services for group homes for developmentally
challenged persons;
         c.   No signs advertising the home are posted on the property;
         d.   No exterior alterations to the dwelling or any accessory
structures are made which would detract from the residential character of the
dwelling or structure;
         e.   Fire escapes, if required, are located on the rear of the
structure, if architecturally feasible, or on the side of the structure and
screened from the view of adjoining residential properties;
         f.   To avoid clustering, the neighborhood group home is not located
on a lot within one quarter mile of any other lot containing a neighborhood
group home, a community group home, a residential treatment center, a
transitional living center, an emergency or protective shelter, or detention/
correctional facility; and
         g.   A Zoning Clearance Permit is issued, which would automatically be
revoked upon the revocation of any license or other approval issued by the
State of Oklahoma.
      5.   Residential Care Center may be allowed as a limited or specific use,
as specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if:
         a.   To avoid clustering, the residential care center is not located
on a lot within one quarter mile from any other lot containing a residential
care center, transitional living center, emergency protective shelter or any
lot containing a neighborhood group home, community group home, or detention/
correctional facility; and
         b.   A Zoning Clearance Permit is issued, which would automatically be
revoked upon the revocation of any license or other approval issued by the
State of Oklahoma.
      6.   Transitional Living Center may be allowed as a limited or specific
use, as specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if:
         a.   To avoid clustering, a transitional living center is not located
on a lot within one quarter mile from any other lot containing a residential
care center, transitional living center, emergency protective shelter or any
lot containing a neighborhood group home, community group home, or detention/
correctional facility; and
         b.   A Zoning Clearance Permit is issued, which would automatically be
revoked upon the revocation of any license or other approval issued by the
State of Oklahoma.
   B.   Residential Uses.
      1.   Elderly/Retirement Housing may be allowed as a limited or specific
use, as specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if:
         a.   Elevators are provided for multi-family structures, with the
exception of townhouses, over one story in height;
         b.   Emergency alarm systems are provided in every dwelling unit;
         c.   Safety “grab bars” are provided in all bathing areas; and
         d.   All Americans with Disabilities Act code requirements are met.
      2.   Rooming and Boarding House (Including Fraternity and Sorority
Houses) may be allowed as a limited or specific use, as specified in the
Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if:
         a.   When determining the applicable bulk, area, setback and parking
requirements, a rooming and boarding house, including a fraternity or sorority
house, shall be considered a multi-family dwelling; and
         b.   Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum floor area of 600 square
feet, the equivalent of a one bedroom dwelling unit.
   C.   Commercial Use of the Home.
      1.   Bed and Breakfast Inn may be allowed as a specific use, as specified
in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if all of the following requirements are met:
         a.   The owner/operator shall maintain a register of guests and events
for each calendar year and shall make such register available to the City upon
request. The maximum length of stay for any guest shall be limited to 30 days
per calendar year.
         b.   The maximum number of guestrooms shall be limited to 12, provided
that one off- street parking space is available per guestroom.
         c.   Cooking facilities are prohibited in guestrooms.
         d.   The inn may not be used as a restaurant, for special dining
events, or catering. Meals may only be served to overnight guests.
         e.   Signage shall not be internally illuminated or exceed six square
feet in the RE and RS zoning districts, or 32 square feet in all other
districts. Sign height shall not exceed four feet unless the site fronts on a
state or federal highway, in which case eight feet is permitted.
         f.   If the inn is not located in an RE or RS zoning district,
applicants may request that the inn be allowed to be rented for special events,
such as, but not limited to, weddings, anniversaries, or dinner parties. The
request shall be evaluated on the ability of the site to accommodate
anticipated off-street parking needs and the impact of such uses on adjoining
properties. The City may stipulate the maximum number of special events per
year and the maximum number of guests per event.
      2.   Family Day Care, Home may be allowed as a limited use, as specified
in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if:
         a.   Signs are limited to accessory signs for principal uses; and
         b.   In the RE and RS districts, family day care homes shall be
located on lots that comply with the following standards:
            (1)   Maximum Floor Area Ratio: 0.5;
            (2)   Minimum Lot Area: 10,000 square feet;
            (3)   Minimum Frontage: 100 feet; and
            (4)   Minimum Setback Abutting RE and RS Lot Lines: 25 feet.
      3.   Home Occupation may be allowed as a limited use in all residential
zoning districts, as specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, and with all
residential uses, if the home occupation is carried on by an occupant of the
dwelling as a secondary use incidental to the principal use of the dwelling as
a residence, and if all of the following requirements are met:
         a.   Location: The home occupation shall be conducted entirely indoors
within the principal structure.
         b.   Area: The maximum floor area utilized for home occupation
purposes shall not exceed 25 percent of the total floor area of the principal
structure.
         c.   Employees: The home occupation shall be engaged in only by the
family or person occupying the dwelling as a private residence. No person shall
be employed in the home occupation other than a member of the immediate family
residing on the premises.
         d.   Visibility of Merchandise: No merchandise shall be displayed in
such a manner as to be visible outside the premises.
         e.   Outdoor Storage: Outdoor storage is prohibited.
         f.   Maintenance of Residential Character: No alteration of the
residential character of the premises may be made in order to facilitate the
home occupation.
         g.   Signs: One identification sign shall be permitted per dwelling
advertising the home occupation. The sign shall be affixed to the principal
building or customary accessory building and shall not exceed six square feet
in surface area. Sign illumination is prohibited.
         h.   Disturbances: No mechanical or electrical equipment or other
activities shall be allowed which create noise, dust, odor, or electrical
disturbance.
         i.   Traffic and Parking: No home occupation shall generate more than
15 additional vehicle trips per day to and from the premises. All parking needs
shall be accommodated by off-street parking, which includes the use of a
driveway, provided that the residential character of the premises is not
altered. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-3-12: NONRESIDENTIAL USES:
As indicated for each use, the following standards apply either to
nonresidential Limited Uses that are approved by the City Planner, subject to
potential referral to the Planning Commission, or to nonresidential uses that
require Specific Use Permit approval by the City Council, upon recommendation
of the Planning Commission, or to both. Specific uses are also subject to any
other conditions of approval necessary to satisfy the criteria set out in
Subsection D, General Standards for Specific Use Permits, above.
   A.   Antenna: Wireless Telecommunication may be allowed as a limited or
specific use, and a primary or accessory use, as specified in the Zoning/Land
Use Matrices, if:
       1.   Antennas and antenna supporting structures shall not exceed 60 feet
of aggregate height, as measured at grade, unless approved by the City Council,
after Planning Commission review and recommendation. However, in no case shall
any antenna and/or antenna supporting structure exceed 150 feet in aggregate
height as measured at grade.
      2.   Each request for an antenna and/or an antenna supporting structure
shall be accompanied by a site plan application which shows all proposed
improvements.
      3.   There shall be a minimum spacing of one-half mile between all
existing and proposed antenna and antenna supporting structure sites excluding
those structures which do not have as their principal purpose antenna placement
or support. Written evidence shall be presented to the City by the applicant
that the antenna and/or antenna supporting structure is no closer than one-half
mile from any existing site or site for which an application is pending with
the City. However, upon action of the City Council, after Planning Commission
review and recommendation, the one-half mile separation requirement may be
waived for sites located within industrial districts, provided that no antenna/
antenna supporting structure shall be within 1,000 feet of an existing or
approved antenna/antenna supporting structure site.
      4.   The antenna and/or antenna supporting structure shall be separated
by 500 feet from any residential district boundary line and 300 feet from any
office district boundary line. Within the agricultural district, no tower shall
be located within 500 feet of a residential dwelling. The antenna and/or
antenna supporting structure shall meet the setback requirements of the
district in which it is located.
      5.   The antenna and/or antenna supporting structure shall be subject to
initial and continuing compliance with all other applicable local, state and
federal codes and standards for operation of that particular facility. These
requirements shall include, but are not limited to, meeting the standards and
requirements of the Federal Aviation Administration, Federal Communications
Commission, and the Electronic Industries Association and American National
Standards Institute.
      6.   The antenna and/or antenna supporting structure shall be buffered
with landscaping and vegetative or other screening to mitigate the operation
and visual impacts of such abutting and adjacent uses. A wall or chain-link
fence not less than eight feet in height from finished grade shall be provided
around any high voltage equipment, and access shall be through a locked gate.
      7.   Equipment, mobile or immobile, that is not necessary for direct
support of the use shall not be stored or parked on the site unless repairs to
the facility are being made.
      8.   If the operation and use of the antenna and/or antenna supporting
structure ceases for a period of 180 days, unless City approval is given again
within 60 days of the expiration of the 180 day period, it shall be removed by
the owner at the owner’s cost or subject to removal by the City at the expense
of the owner.
      9.   The antenna and/or antenna supporting structure shall be designed
and constructed in such a manner as to accommodate collocation of a minimum of
two wireless telecommunications systems, personal communications systems, or
other such technologies, unless it can be demonstrated by the applicant to the
satisfaction of the City that such collocation was not technically feasible or
that it would unreasonably impede or otherwise impair the operation of the
initial or subsequently located facilities.
      10.   If collocation is determined by the City to unreasonably impede or
impair the operation of the proposed facility, a minimum spacing of one-half
mile from other such facilities shall be met, unless a waiver is granted, as
set out in Item “3.” for this use.
      11.   The antenna supporting structure shall be of monopole design unless
the applicant can demonstrate that an alternative design is necessary due to
technical considerations or would result in less visual impacts.
      12.   Certification from a Professional Engineer licensed to practice in
the State of Oklahoma shall be submitted that the antenna and antenna
supporting structure is designed and constructed in such a manner as to
accommodate the collocation of a minimum of two wireless telecommunications
system providers, and that it meets the standards of the American National
Standards Institute and the Electronic Industries Association and would not
result in disruption of any other wireless or other communication networks.
Further, certification from such engineer shall be required upon completion of
the construction and prior to commencement of operation that the antenna and
antenna supporting structure has, in fact, been constructed in accordance with
the plans approved by the City.
      13.   Operators of such facilities shall provide the City Planner with 30
day prior written notice of any changes or modification in the operation of the
facility that would cause the facility to no longer be in compliance with all
requirements listed above for this use and any conditions of City approval.
Said notice shall include detailed information about the nature of all such
changes. Minor changes may be approved administratively. Major changes shall
require a new SUP application. Changes made without prior notice to the City
that are determined to be major shall constitute cause for the City to
summarily revoke the original SUP approval and become the basis for requiring
submission of a new application to continue operation, or the basis for
invoking the enforcement and remedy proceedings set out in Chapter 11.
      14.   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a color
that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the supporting
structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as visually
unobtrusive as possible.
      15.   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna shall not extend more than 20 feet above the highest point of the
building structure, or if located on an architectural feature such as a steeple
or bell tower, the antenna shall not protrude above the structure.
      16.   The following antennas may be permitted as a limited use:
         a.   Antennas that are to be attached to existing support structures,
provided that each new antenna does not exceed the initial approved aggregate
height for the entire structure.
         b.   Antennas attached to an existing City owned building or
structure, or a utility structure, provided that the antenna(s) comply with
Subsections “13.” and “14.” above.
   B.   Nursing Home may be allowed as a limited or specific use, as specified
in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if:
      1.   The nursing home is licensed by the Oklahoma Health Department as an
intermediate care facility or as a skilled nursing home; and
      2.   When located on a lot abutting any lot zoned RE, RS, or RD, a Type C
bufferyard shall be provided along the said abutting residential property line.
   C.   Office Accessory Use may be allowed as a limited accessory use within
an office building or office complex, on a property zoned OL or OM, as
specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if:
      1.   The use is necessary and appropriate for the convenience of the
office occupants, such as, but not limited to, hair care, bookstore, florist,
gift, novelty, pharmacy, newsstand, shipping, stationery and office supplies,
dine-in restaurant, café, or cafeteria;
      2.   The use is structurally integral within the principal building, is
located entirely within the principal building, and has no direct exterior
public access, excluding required fire exits;
      3.   Multiple such uses in one office building are collectively limited
to an area no greater than 15 percent of the gross first floor area of the
building;
      4.   Any individual restaurant occupies an area no greater than five
percent of the gross first floor area of the building; and
      5.   Exterior signs, including window signs, identifying the use are
prohibited.
   D.   Oil and Gas Well Drilling and Operation may be allowed as a specific
use, as specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, subject to:
      1.   The provisions of City Code, Title 3, Chapter 3, Section
3-7-1, Subsection B; and
      2.   Applicable requirements of Title 12, Subdivision Regulations,
Chapter 5, Section 12-5-12, Oil and Natural Gas Extraction.
   E.   Sexually Oriented Businesses are permitted as a specific use, as
specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, subject to:
      1.   Definitions. As used herein, the following terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them below:
         a.   SEXUAL CONDUCT includes the following meanings:
            (1)   The fondling or other touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or female breasts;
            (2)   Ultimate sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including intercourse, oral copulation, and sodomy;
            (3)   Masturbation; and
            (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of
the activities set forth in this definition.
         b.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES include the following:
            (1)   Adult Amusement Or Entertainment: Amusement or entertainment
which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on acts or material
depicting, describing or relating to “sexual conduct” or “specified anatomical
areas”, as defined herein, including, but not limited to, topless or bottomless
dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar
entertainment.
            (2)   Adult Bookstore: An establishment having, as a significant
portion of its stock in trade, books, films, magazines and other periodicals
which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing sexual conduct or specified anatomical areas.
            (3)   Adult Mini-Motion Picture Theater: An enclosed building with
a capacity of less than 50 persons used for presenting material distinguishing
or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual conduct or
specified anatomical areas.
            (4)   Adult Motel: A motel wherein material is presented as part of
the motel services via closed circuit TV or otherwise, which is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual conduct or
specified anatomical areas.
            (5)   Adult Motion Picture Arcade: Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image producing devices are maintained to show images to
five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing sexual conduct or specified anatomical areas.
            (6)   Adult Motion Picture Theater: An enclosed building with a
capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual conduct or
specified anatomical areas.
            (7)   Massage Parlor: Any place where, for any form of
consideration or gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of
fomentations, electric or magnetic treatments, or any other treatment or
manipulation of the human body occurs as part of or in connection with sexual
conduct or where any person providing such treatment, manipulation or service
related thereto exposes specified anatomical areas.
            (8)   Model Studio: Any place, other than university or college art
classes, where, for any form of consideration or gratuity, figure models who
display specific anatomical areas are provided to be observed, sketched, drawn,
painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by persons paying such
consideration or gratuity.
            (9)   Sexual Encounter Center: Any building or structure which
contains or is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or
indirectly is charged a fee to engage in personal contact with or to allow
personal contact by employees, devices or equipment or by personnel provided by
the establishment which appeals to the prurient interest of the patron, to
include, but not to be limited to, bathhouses, massage parlors, and related or
similar activities.
         c.   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: as used in this Section, shall
include the following:
            (1)   Human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breasts
below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and
            (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      2.   Location.
         a.   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any of the
“sexually oriented businesses”, as defined in Subsection E.1. above, in an area
zoned other than CS and CG.
         b.   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any of the
“sexually oriented businesses”, as defined in Subsection E.1. above, within:
            (1)   1,000 feet of any other sexually oriented business;
            (2)   500 feet of a place of worship;
            (3)   500 feet of a school which offers a compulsory education
curriculum;
            (4)   500 feet of a public or private park;
            (5)   300 feet of any residential zoning district; or
            (6)   300 feet of a non-arterial street that provides access to a
residentially zoned area.
      3.   Interpretation.
         a.   The establishment of a sexually oriented business shall include
the opening of such business as a new business, the relocation of such
business, the enlargement of such business in either scope or area, or the
conversion of an existing business location of any of the uses described in
this Subsection.
         b.   Nothing in this Section is intended to make legal any business or
activity that is expressly declared illegal under the provisions of this Title
or under any state or federal laws.
   F.   Temporary Open Air Facilities may be allowed as a specific use, as
specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if the event does not exceed 60
days.
   G.   Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS) may be allowed as a limited or
specific use, as specified in the Zoning/Land Use Matrices, if all of the
following requirements are met:
      1.   All WECS tower structures comply with the design and construction
techniques in the current City Codes, as set out in Title 10. Compliance with
all code requirements shall be sealed and certified in writing by the
manufacturer’s engineer or a professionally registered structural engineer.
      2.   Towers have either tower climbing apparatus located not closer than
12 feet from the ground or have a locked anti-climb device installed on the
tower.
      3.   Safety wires are installed on the turnbuckles of the guywires for
all guyed WECS towers.
      4.   The WECS is equipped with both manual and automatic controls to
limit the rotational speed of the blade below the design limits of the rotor.
The conformance of rotor and over-speed control design with good engineering
practices shall be certified by the manufacturer’s engineering staff or by a
registered mechanical engineer. The compatibility of the tower and the rotor
shall also be certified by the manufacturer or by a registered mechanical
engineer.
      5.   If a WECS is within 300 feet of a structure or a tree, the lowest
moving part is not more than 30 feet above the highest structure or potential
tree height, whichever is higher, and does not exceed 60 feet.
      6.   No part of a WECS is located within, or over, a drainage, utility,
or other established easements or located within, or over, any required minimum
front, side, or rear yard setbacks or bufferyards. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
11-3-13: GENERAL:
   A.   Purpose.
      1.   A PUD is a zoning classification that combines the zoning,
subdivision, and site plan processes in a manner that benefits the City by
creating community character and the developer by expanding development options
and flexibility, and reducing uncertainty.
      2.   It is not the purpose of a PUD to maximize lot yield or to deviate
from the standard zoning regulations without clear benefits to the City. The
City will only consider a PUD when the warrants listed in Subsection C below
will result from the development.
   B.   Goals.
      1.   Every PUD should achieve a development outcome that is superior to
that possible through general zoning districts, addresses the needs of the
development market for greater flexibility and certainty, and supports the
desire of the City to achieve the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive
Plan.
      2.   The following types of development can only be achieved by use of a
PUD and are encouraged by the City:
         a.   Mixtures of residential types, densities, dwelling sizes and
heights, lot sizes and widths, and design character in a single cohesive manner
throughout the development;
         b.   Mixtures of residential types with specific nonresidential uses
in appropriate locations relative to residential, and with standards to ensure
the compatibility and design integration of all uses;
         c.   Mixtures of nonresidential development limited to specific uses,
and the exclusion of other uses that may not be desirable in a given PUD; and
         d.   Clustered development in units that preserves meaningful open
space, protects natural resources, provides corridors for linear parks and
bikeways, buffers different use types, buffers streams, wetlands, and
floodplains to improve water quality and minimize flood risk, and provides
areas for active and passive recreation opportunities.
      3.   Creation of a development framework that provides both the developer
and the City flexibility, within predetermined codified parameters, with
appropriate Commission and Council oversight.
   C.   Warrants. To obtain approval of a PUD, the applicant must submit a site
development plan, concept plan, plats, parks and recreation schematic plans,
amenity plans, building design elevations, a written narrative describing the
development standards proposed to govern the PUD, and other documents to
demonstrate that the development, if approved, will be of a higher quality than
a standard development, will yield a substantial community benefit, and will
result in other benefits, such as:
      1.   An efficient provision of infrastructure that sustains the natural
environment;
      2.   Continuity of the roadway system that effectively distributes and
calms traffic both within and through the development;
      3.   Pedestrian systems via on-street bicycle lanes or off-street bicycle
trails and sidewalks that improve pedestrian and bicycle circulation;
      4.   Good transitioning of housing types within the development and with
development adjacent to the PUD;
      5.   Protection and preservation of natural resources and valued or
sensitive land features; and
      6.   Improved development quality that includes landscape and other
decorative treatments along perimeter collector and arterial streets and the
perimeter of the development.
The greater flexibility afforded to the developer to best utilize the physical
features of the site must result in a commensurate exchange of greater public
benefits than would otherwise be achieved through non-PUD development
procedures under this Title.
   D.   Applicability.
      1.   A PUD application may be submitted for land located within any
general zoning district or combination of general zoning districts. In every
instance, the PUD is to be reviewed as to the proposed location and character
of the uses and the unified treatment of the development of the tract.
      2.   A PUD approved prior to the effective date of this Title shall be
carried forth in full force and effect, and all conditions, restrictions,
regulations, and requirements that apply to the respective PUD shown on the
Official Zoning Map at the date of adoption.
   E.   Effect of Approval.
      1.   Upon approval of a PUD, no modification of use or bulk and area
requirements that would have applied under general zoning standards shall be
effectuated by issuance of any building or zoning clearance permit until a
subdivision plat incorporating the provisions and requirements of the PUD is
approved by the City and duly filed of record in the office of the County Clerk
of Tulsa County.
      2.   Upon approval of a PUD, the existing zoning will cease to exist and
the property shall be rezoned to “PUD”, subject to all of the requirements
adopted by the City Council in the ordinance that establishes the PUD. (Ord.
746, 11-14-2017)
11-3-14: STANDARDS:
   A.   Context. Each PUD proposed for the City’s consideration shall be
unique. The development standards that are appropriate for each shall be
derived by the following factors:
      1.   Context Sensitivity. It is essential to identify the existing uses
and streets that adjoin the PUD or that are proposed to adjoin the PUD. The
Future Land Use Map and Major Street and Highway Plan shall also be consulted
for context. Each of these conceptual elements factor into the design of the
PUD.
      2.   Site Sensitivities and Constraints. It is essential to identify
development constraints on the property where the PUD is proposed, and on
adjoining sites. Examples of constraints include uneven terrain, steep slopes,
creeks and other water features, wetlands and floodplains, dense tree cover,
and any pre-existing mineral extraction facilities. These features affect land
development decisions, and some natural constraints can be treated as
opportunities that, when preserved, will provide meaningful open space,
greenbelts for linear parks and trails, and land use buffers, as well as focal
points within a development.
      3.   Development Linkage. It is essential that developments are designed
in a manner that will provide appropriate auto, pedestrian, bicycle and utility
linkages between existing and future development. Site constraints that extend
onto abutting properties could be combined into a larger park or open space
area.
      4.   Site Visibility. To create community character, it is imperative
that the perimeter of the development, particularly along highways and arterial
and collector streets, be designed appropriately with greenbelts, decorative
walls or fencing, and landscaping to create a positive appearance for community
residents and those traveling through the City.
After analyzing the factors described above, a Contextual Plan shall be
developed that depicts each factor as many critical PUD design decisions will
be derived from this information.
   B.   Proposed Uses and Design. The developer may propose one or more uses,
expressly prohibit certain uses, or itemize the list of uses proposed in the
PUD. Uses shall be proposed in logical locations based on surrounding uses and
roads and the ability to provide buffer areas to ensure that all uses in the
PUD, and outside the PUD, are compatible.
      1.   Concept Plan. Proposed PUD uses shall next be illustrated on a PUD
Concept Plan that shows where each use is proposed to be located, proposed
acreage of each use, and proposed density of each residential use (gross units
per acre) and proposed intensity of each nonresidential use (ratio of floor
area to site area). Densities and intensities shall be indicated by pod within
the PUD and by overall PUD calculations. The Concept Plan shall show how open
space is proposed to be used as buffers, preserved as common open space, or
used for recreational purposes. The Contextual Plan shall be referenced to
ensure that the proposed PUD uses fit the context of the surrounding area and
development.
      2.   Conceptual PUD Narrative. The developer shall propose, and describe
in narrative form, specific development standards to govern each proposed use
type in the PUD. This shall be done either by referencing the development
standards of specific zoning districts in this Title or by proposing a unique
set of development standards for each use in the PUD, or different densities or
intensities for particular use areas in the PUD. Along with basic use and
dimensional standards, the development standards narrative shall outline an
architectural design palette, sign program, and amenity program, and also
specify how open spaces and other common areas will be designed and maintained.
      3.   Conceptual Utility and Drainage Plan. The developer shall prepare a
conceptual plan for utilities and drainage to illustrate how these essential
facilities and public safety will be addressed, but also as critical
considerations for ensuring development linkage and depicting how drainage
areas may be designed as usable recreation areas and amenities.
      4.   Design Elements. Following is a representative list of design
elements that are encouraged by the City in general, and particularly within
PUDs:
         a.   Aerated ponds surrounded by trails and other amenities, or dry
detention with appropriate slopes to allow active recreation.
         b.   Wider sidewalks that can accommodate pedestrians and bicycles.
         c.   Linear parks or trails that can connect to other local and
regional trail networks and adjoining development.
         d.   The use of unified and consistent design elements, such as
materials, colors, and design, for perimeter walls or fencing, primary road
frontage, entry signs, and amenities in the development.
         e.   Provision of common open space designated for trails,
playgrounds, active or passive recreation, and as water quality buffer areas.
         f.   Preservation of trees and sensitive areas to enhance the
appearance of the perimeter of the development, provide buffers between uses,
and enhance livability.
      5.   Negotiation and Processing. With each of the plans and narratives
complete, the City and developer shall begin to assess how the proposed PUD
addresses the PUD purposes and standards expressed in this Subchapter and shall
begin the processes set out in Sections
11-9-9, Conceptual Development Plan for a PUD,
11-9-10, Preliminary Development Plan for a PUD, and
11-9-11, Final Development Plan for a PUD, concurrent with the submittal of
Preliminary and Final Plats, as set out in Title 12, Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-3-15: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Building Permits. Upon the recordation and filing of an approved PUD
subdivision plat, the acceptance of any required public improvements, and the
issuance of a Zoning Clearance Permit, a building permit may be issued for land
in the PUD in accordance with the approved plat and PUD.
   B.   Amendments. Minor and Major Amendments to the PUD may be considered in
accordance with the processes set out in Section
11-9-4, Minor PUD Amendments, and Section
11-9-2, Major PUD Amendments.
   C.   Abandonment. Abandonment of a PUD is subject to City Council approval,
upon receiving a recommendation by the Planning Commission, of an application
for an amendment to the Official Zoning Map to repeal the PUD. If a PUD is
repealed, the zoning of the subject property shall automatically revert to the
conventional zoning district classification which existed prior to the
establishment of the PUD and shall be so noted on the Official Zoning Map. Upon
final action authorizing the abandonment of the PUD, no building permit shall
be issued except in accordance with the restrictions and limitations of the
prior conventional zoning of the property. Such a change to the Official Zoning
Map shall be considered a Minor Map Amendment and may be completed
administratively. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-3-16: SUBDIVISION REQUIRED:
   A.   PUD subdivision plats shall be filed with the City concurrent with the
Preliminary and Final PUD Zoning Amendment Plans. Plats shall be processed in
accordance with the requirements of Title 12, Subdivision Regulations.
   B.   Covenants to provide for the ownership and maintenance of common open
space to reasonably ensure its continuity and conservation shall be provided to
the City for review as to form. Open space may be dedicated to a private
association or to the public, subject to the approval of City Council. (Ord.
746, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 4
DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
Generally
11-4-1: Purpose And Applicability
11-4-2: General Zoning Provisions
Residential Development Standards
11-4-3: Purpose
11-4-4: Development Types
11-4-5: Development Standards
Nonresidential Development Standards
11-4-6: Purpose
11-4-7: Development Types
11-4-8: Development Standards
11-4-9: Special Spacing, Design And Operation Standards
Design Standards
11-4-10: Purpose And Applicability
11-4-11: Single-Family Residential And Duplex Development
11-4-12: Multi-Family Residential Development
11-4-13: Manufactured Homes
11-4-14: Nonresidential and Mixed-Use Development
GENERALLY
11-4-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to establish:
      1.   Minimum and maximum development standards for each zoning district;
      2.   Minimum and maximum standards for various types of subdivisions; and
      3.   Exceptions from minimum and maximum requirements, where appropriate.
   B.   Organization. Development standards are organized into the following
Subchapters:
      1.   Residential Standards. Subchapter 2, Residential Development
Standards, establishes development parameters for all standard residential uses
and neighborhoods, which excludes residential uses and neighborhoods in PUDs.
      2.   Nonresidential Standards. Subchapter 3, Nonresidential Development
Standards, applies to all nonresidential, mixed-use, public, and institutional
development and establishes minimum and maximum site development standards,
such as, but not limited to, building coverage, lot area and lot width.
      3.   Design Standards. Subchapter 4, Design Standards, establishes
building design, materials, and aesthetic standards for the design of all
buildings in the City.
   C.   Applicability. The standards of this Chapter apply to the following:
      1.   Conforming Existing Buildings. All principal buildings and
structures lawfully permitted and constructed, or that have an active building
permit prior to the effective date of this Title, are deemed to be conforming
with respect to the requirements set out in this Chapter. This Chapter,
however, does not make the following buildings or structures conforming:
         a.   Buildings or structures constructed without required permits;
         b.   Buildings or structures constructed in violation of permit
requirements;
         c.   Buildings or structures that were razed and are proposed to be
reconstructed in a manner that will not conform to the standards of this
Chapter;
         d.   Buildings that were permitted and constructed as a single-family
detached dwelling and later converted to multi-family units without being
permitted for such use; and
         e.   Accessory buildings constructed with or without permits that
violate the standards of this Chapter.
      2.   Conforming Lots. All lots of record that lawfully existed prior to
the effective date of this Title are deemed to be conforming with respect to
the requirements of this Chapter relating to lot design. However, this Chapter
does not make any originally platted conforming lot that was later split by a
metes and bounds division a conforming lot.
      3.   New Development. All new development and new subdivisions shall be
subject to all requirements of this Chapter on the effective date of this
Title. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-4-2: GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance with Provisions.
      1.   No land, lot or building shall be used or improvements made for any
purpose except in accordance with the use, height, area, yard, space and all
other applicable requirements established in the district in which such land,
lot, building, or improvement is located, except as provided by Chapter 10,
Nonconformities.
      2.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to require a change in the
plans, construction, or designated use of any building, where a building permit
was lawfully issued prior to the effective date of this Title, and pursuant to
such permit, construction is diligently carried to completion. Upon completion,
such building or use shall be deemed to be legally nonconforming and may
continue, as regulated by Chapter 10, Nonconformities.
      3.   Within one year of the effective date of this Title, a building
permit and Zoning Clearance Permit may be issued for any use of land commenced
in accordance with all terms, conditions, and plans of any approval granted by
the Board of Adjustment, Planning Commission, or City Council prior to the
effective date of this Title.
   B.   Division of Lots. A lot shall not hereafter be divided into two or more
lots unless all resulting lots from such division conform to all the applicable
regulations of the zoning district in which they are located and comply with
all requirements of Title 12, Chapter 7, of the City Code.
   C.   Street Frontage Required. No lot shall contain any building used in
whole or in part for residential purposes unless such lot has a minimum of 30
feet of frontage on a public street or dedicated right-of-way, except a
nonconforming lot of record, a lot within an approved PUD, or a lot within an
approved townhouse or condominium development.
   D.   One Single-Family Dwelling per Lot in Certain Districts. Not more than
one residential structure may be located on a lot in an AG, RE, RS or RD
district.
   E.   Height Limit Exceptions. The following structures shall not be subject
to the height limitations of the district in which they are located:
      1.   Farm buildings and structures;
      2.   Belfries, chimneys, cupolas, domes, elevators, penthouses,
flagpoles, monitors, smokestacks, spires, cooling towers and ventilators,
provided they are not intended for human occupancy; and
      3.   Ground and structure supported accessory antennas, aerials, and
towers, including elevating structures of a non-habitable nature, which do not
exceed a total aggregate height of 60 feet above the natural land grade and
which meet the following requirements:
         a.   No portion of the antenna or antenna supporting structure or any
anchor or guy-line may encroach upon the land area or airspace of any adjoining
or abutting property;
         b.   In a residential district, no portion of the antenna or antenna
supporting structure may extend beyond the front yard building setback line or
extend into any established front yard or into any side yard, provided that:
            (1)   Height and location restrictions shall not be applicable to
radio communication facilities owned, operated and maintained by any City,
county, state or federal governmental entity.
            (2)   Non-guyed, omnidirectional, single-element vertical antennas
not exceeding 112 inches in height and not exceeding a 1.75 inch outside
diameter shall be permitted, in addition to the 60 foot aggregate height
limitation.
The restrictions established by this Subsection may be modified by the approval
of a Specific Use Permit, as set out in Section
11-9-13, Specific Use Permit, subject to the minimum requirements and such
additional safeguards and conditions as may be determined to be appropriate and
necessary.
   F.   Lot Area and Width Exceptions. The development standards of all zoning
districts shall be applicable to all uses within such districts, with the
exception of:
      1.   All Essential Services, including, but not limited to, fire, police
and emergency medical services, utility services, public parks, drainage, and
open space and amenity areas; and
      2.   Integrated retail or other centers that have multiple lots and out-
parcels and function as a single unified development. In such centers,
development standards shall apply to the perimeter of the integrated
development unless a plat specifies additional setbacks, such as for a mixed-
use center.
   G.   Yards and Setbacks.
      1.   Required yards shall be open and unobstructed from the ground to the
sky. Yards provided for the purpose of complying with the requirements of this
Title shall not be considered to be a required yard for any other building or
lot.
      2.   Obstructions are permitted in required yards as follows:
         a.   Cornices, canopies, eaves, and similar architectural features may
project not more than two feet into a required yard;
         b.   Fire escapes may project not more than four and one-half feet
into a required yard;
         c.   Fences, hedges, plant materials and walls may be located in any
yard, provided that corner traffic visibility is maintained in accordance with
City ordinances; and
         d.   Signs permitted as accessory uses in residential districts may be
located within any yard which is bounded by a public street, provided that
corner traffic visibility is maintained in accordance with City ordinances.
   H.   Accessory Buildings and Structures. In the RE and RS residential
districts, a detached accessory building, or buildings, may be located in a
required rear yard if:
      1.   The building or buildings do not cover more than 20 percent of the
area of the minimum required rear yard;
      2.   The total gross floor area for any accessory building or buildings
located in the rear yard, required rear yard, and/or both, does not exceed 600
square feet; and
      3.   Any swimming pools, tennis courts, patios, and fallout or other
protective shelters, are located only in the rear half of a lot, with a minimum
setback of 10 feet from any side or rear lot lines.
Customary residential accessory uses such as clotheslines, barbecue pits, and
playground equipment shall not be included in the calculation of accessory
structure area.
   I.   Vehicles in all Residential Districts.
      1.   No inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicles or vehicle bodies or
vehicle parts shall be parked or stored within any yard in any residential
zoning district; and
      2.   No vehicle shall be parked except on a hard surfaced area,
constructed of a dust-free, all-weather material.
   J.   Lot Averaging Exceptions. Where existing buildings or structures on the
same side of the street, and within the same block, encroach into a required
front building setback as lawfully established nonconforming buildings, the
required front building setback for new construction shall be established as
follows:
      1.   If the proposed building is to be located more than 200 feet from an
encroaching building, the proposed building shall conform to the front building
setback established for the district in which the proposed building is located.
      2.   If the proposed building is to be located between adjacent buildings
which conform to the required front building setback, or between a conforming
building and an intersecting street, the proposed building shall conform to the
front building setback established for the district in which the proposed
building is located.
      3.   If the proposed building is to be located within 200 feet of and
between lawfully established nonconforming buildings that are encroaching, and
there are no intervening buildings, the front building setback for the proposed
building shall be the average of the front building setback of the two nearest
front corners of the encroaching buildings.
      4.   If the proposed building is to be located within 200 feet of an
encroaching building on one side, but not both sides, and there are no
intervening buildings, the front building setback shall be the average of the
required front setback and the setback of the nearest front corner of the
encroaching building.
   K.   Platting Required. In order to implement the development standards of
this Title and provide for the proper arrangement of streets, utilities, and
emergency access commensurate with the intensity of zoning, no building permit
or Zoning Clearance Permit shall be issued until that portion of the tract on
which the permit is sought has been included within a subdivision plat, as
required by Title 12. The City Council, pursuant to its exclusive jurisdiction
over subdivision plats, may waive the platting requirement upon a determination
that the purposes stated above have been achieved by a previous plat. (Ord.
746, 11-14-2017)
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
11-4-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Subchapter is to set out development standards for all new
residential uses and neighborhoods. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-4-4: DEVELOPMENT TYPES:
   A.   General. The requirements of this Section govern the development of all
proposed standard residential uses and neighborhoods in the City, which
excludes PUDs, and the former residential zoning districts set out in
Subsection C., Exemptions, below.
   B.   Development Types. As set out in this Subchapter, there are two types
of new residential development, including:
      1.   Standard Residential. Standard residential development is permitted
in the Agriculture (AG), Residential Estate (RE), Residential Single-Family Low
Density (RS-1), Residential Single-Family Medium Density (RS-2), Residential
Single-Family High Density (RS-3), Residential Duplex (RD), Residential Multi-
Family Townhouse (RMT), Residential Multi-Family Low Density (RM-1),
Residential Multi-Family Medium Density (RM-2), and Residential Mobile Home
Park (RMH) zoning districts.
      2.   Planned Unit Developments (PUDs). Residential PUDs are an
alternative form to standard residential development that may include a mix of
standard or non-standard housing types, densities, and land uses, subject to
the requirements of a PUD zoning district approved by City Council.
   C.   Exemptions. Prior to the effective date of this Title, there existed
the Residential Single-Family Highest Density (RS-4) zoning district and
instances of such district with a PUD overlay district (RS-4/PUD). As set out
in Section
11-1-7.C, properties in those districts may be developed in accordance with all
requirements in effect when they were approved. New RS-4 and RS-4/PUD districts
are expressly prohibited. The former RS-4 development standards are on file
with and available from the City Planner. Properties zoned RS-4/PUD have PUD
development standards that make each unique, so applicants should consult with
the City Planner prior to commencing with development in those former
districts. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-4-5: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Table 11-4-5, Residential Development Standards, sets out the development
standards that govern standard residential development in the City.
TABLE 11-4-5
Residential Development Standards
DISTRICT AG RE RS-1 RS-2 RS-3 RD RMT RM-1 RM-2 RMH
DISTRICT     AG     RE     RS-1   RS-2   RS-3   RD     RMT   RM-1  RM-2  RMH
LOT WIDTH (Minimum, in Feet)
Single-
Family       150    1501   100    85     75     65     60    60    60    -
Dwelling
Duplex       -      -      -      -      -      60     60    60    60    -
Townhouse
Development  -      -      -      -      -      -      100   80    80    -
Width2
Townhouse    -      -      -      -      -      -      20    20    20    -
Lot Width2
Multi-Family -      -      -      -      -      -      -     100   100   -
Manufactured -      -      -      -      -      -      -     -     -     300
Home
LOT AREA (Minimum, in Square Feet)
Single-
Family       43,560 24,000 13,500 11,000 9,000  7,800  6,900 6,000 6,000 -
Dwelling
Duplex       -      -      -      -      -      6,900  6,900 6,900 6,900 -
Townhouse2   -      -      -      -      -             1,600 1,800 1,800 -
Multi-Family -      -      -      -      -      -      -     -     -     -
Manufactured -      -      -      -      -      -      -     -     -     5
Home                                                                     acres
LAND AREA PER DWELLING UNIT (Minimum, in Square Feet)
Single-
Family       43,560 28,375 16,000 12,325 10,875 12,875 8,400 7,500 7,500 -
Dwelling
Duplex       -      -      -      -      -      4,200  4,200 4,200 4,200 -
Townhouse2   -      -      -      -      -      -      4,500 3,630 2,420 -
LAND AREA PER DWELLING UNIT (Minimum, in Square Feet)
Multi-Family -      For each of the first two dwelling units 4,600 4,200 -
                    on the lot
            -      Less than two bedrooms                   2,720 1,980 -
            -      Two or more bedrooms                     3,630 2,420 -
Manufactured -      -      -      -      -      -      -     -     -     5,445
Home
LIVABILITY SPACE PER DWELLING UNIT (Minimum, in Square Feet)
            -      12,000 7,000  6,000  5,000  2,000  1,800 1,000 400   300
HEIGHT (Maximum, in Feet)
            404    35     35     35     35     35     35    353   504   1
                                                                         story
SETBACKS (Minimum, in Feet)
FRONT YARDS ABUTTING A STREET (Measured from the centerline of the abutting
street. Add to the distance designated below ½ of right-of-way designated on
the Major Street and Highway Plan, or 25 feet if not designated on the plan.)
Arterial
Street and   35     35     35     35     35     35     35    35    35    35
Highway
All Other    25     35     35     30     25     25     25    25    10    25
Streets
REAR YARDS5 (Minimum, in Feet)
Arterial
Street and   40     35     35     35     30     30     30    30    20    10
Highway
All Other    40     25     25     25     20     20     20    20    10    10
Streets
SIDE YARDS6 (Minimum, in Feet)
One Side     10     15     10     10     10     10     10    10    10    10
Yard
Other Side   10     15     5      5      5      5      10    5     10    10
Yard
Arterial
Street and   40     25     20     20     20     20     20    20    20    35
Highway
All Other    40     15     15     15     15     15     15    15    15    25
Streets
MOBILE HOME / MANUFACTURED HOUSING PARK (Internal Requirements)
Unit Pad Space (Minimum, in square feet, exclusive of streets, required  3,000
off-street parking, and required livability space)
Minimum Separation Between Units (Feet)                                  20
Minimum Street Surface Width (Feet)                                      26
Setback from Centerline of Private Internal Streets and Driveways (Feet) 22
 
NOTES:
1   The frontage of any lot in the RE district which meets the minimum lot size
requirement may be less than the minimum frontages as long as the front
building line on said lot is a minimum of 125 linear feet.
2   A minimum of three townhouse lots.
3   In the RM-1 district, a one-story limitation shall apply to structures
containing more than three dwelling units which are within 50 feet of an
adjoining RE or RS district.
4   If abutting an RS district, an additional two feet of setback from the
property line in common with the RS districts shall be required for each one
foot of building height exceeding 35 feet.
5   In the RM-2 district, a rear yard of 20 feet shall apply to all structures
containing more than three dwelling units, when adjacent to an RE or RS
district.
6   Does not apply to interior lot line of townhouse developments.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
11-4-6: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Subchapter is to set out development standards for all new
nonresidential, public, institutional, and mixed-use development. (Ord. 746,
11-14-2017)
11-4-7: DEVELOPMENT TYPES:
   A.   Standard Nonresidential. Standard nonresidential development is
permitted in the Office Low Intensity (OL), Office Medium Intensity (OM),
Commercial Shopping Center (CS), Commercial General (CG), Industrial Light
Manufacturing and Research and Development (IL), and Industrial Moderate (IM)
zoning districts.
   B.   Planned Unit Developments. PUDs are an alternative development form to
standard nonresidential development that may include a mix of standard or non-
standard nonresidential use types, intensities, and mixed-use development, all
of which are subject to the requirements of a PUD zoning district approved by
City Council. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-4-8: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Table 11-4-8, Nonresidential Development Standards, sets out the development
standards that govern standard nonresidential development in the City.
TABLE 11-4-8
Nonresidential Development Standards
DISTRICTS/ USE OL OM CS CG IL IM Scientific Research Facilities and
                                 Institutions
DISTRICTS/ USE      OL   OM   CS    CG    IL   IM   Scientific Research
                                                    Facilities and Institutions
LOT WIDTH (Minimum, in Feet)
Arterial Street and 75   100  150   150   150  200  200
Highway
All Other Streets   50   50   50    50    50   50   200
LOT AREA (Minimum, in Square Feet)
                   None None None  None  None None None
FLOOR AREA RATIO (Maximum, by Percentage)
                   25   50   35    50    None None 50
HEIGHT (Maximum, in Feet)
                   35   351  None3 None3 None None None
SETBACKS (Minimum, in Feet)
FRONT YARD ABUTTING A STREET (Measured from the centerline of the abutting
street. Add to the distance designated below ½ of right-of-way designated on
the Major Street and Highway Plan, or 25 feet if not designated on the plan.)
Arterial Street and 50   50   50    50    50   50   50
Highway
All Other Streets   25   25   25    25    25   25   50
REAR YARD (Minimum, in Feet)4
Arterial Street and 50   50   50    50    50   50   50
Highway
All Other Streets   25   25   25    25    25   25   50
Abutting AG or any
Residential Zoning  10   101  152   152   755  755  755
District
SIDE YARDS (Minimum, in Feet)4
Arterial Street and 50   50   50    50    50   50   50
Highway
All Other Streets   25   25   25    25    25   25   50
Abutting AG or any
Residential Zoning  10   101  152   152   755  755  755
District
 
NOTES:
1   Plus one foot of setback for each one foot of building height exceeding 18
feet, if the property abuts property within the RE, RS, and RD zoning
districts.
2   Plus two feet of setback for each one foot of building height exceeding 15
feet, if the property abuts property within the RE, RS, RD, and RMT zoning
districts.
3   If abutting an RS district, two feet of additional setback shall be
required from the property line in common with an RS district for each foot of
building height exceeding 35 feet.
4   If rear or side property line does not abut a street right-of-way or a
protected AG or Residential zoning district, setbacks from such rear or side
property lines are not required.
5   Setback is also applicable when abutting a property zoned Office.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-4-9: SPECIAL SPACING, DESIGN AND OPERATION STANDARDS:
   A.   Gas Stations. Within the CS zoning district, there shall be no open air
storage or display of merchandise offered for sale or rental within 300 feet of
any property zoned Residential (all districts), except for the incidental open
air display of tires, oil or other automobile accessories.
   B.   Auto, Truck, RV and Large Scale Equipment and Merchandise. Within the
CS district, there shall be no open air storage or display of these types of
equipment and merchandise offered for sale or rental within 300 feet of any
property zoned Residential (all districts).
   C.   Mining and Mineral Operations. Subject to the requirements of an SUP
granted by the City Council, the Planning Commission and Council shall have the
power to consider potential environmental influences associated with mining and
mineral operations, such as, but not limited to, dust, vibration, and noise,
and may establish protective conditions, such as spacing, setbacks, screening
and methods of operation to mitigate the adverse effect of such uses on
surrounding properties.
   D.   Industrial Uses.
      1.   Scientific, Research, Testing and Development operations, when
located in the Industrial Light Manufacturing and Research and Development (IL)
zoning district, shall be entirely located within enclosed buildings.
      2.   All uses permitted in the Industrial Light Manufacturing and
Research and Development (IL) zoning district located within 300 feet of any
Residential zoning district shall be conducted within enclosed buildings.
      3.   All uses permitted in the Moderate Industrial (IM) zoning district
located within 300 feet of any Residential zoning district shall be conducted
within enclosed buildings and shall install Type D bufferyards along all
property lines within 300 feet of any Residential zoning district. (Ord. 746,
11-14-2017)
DESIGN STANDARDS
11-4-10: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Subchapter is to improve public health and
safety, promote resiliency to the hazards of wildfire, wind and other natural
elements, and enhance the quality and longevity of the housing stock of the
City and the visual character of the City. The standards seek to provide for
buildings constructed of quality, durable materials and building sites and
developments that are functional, safe, resilient, and create and enhance
community character.
   B.   Applicability. The standards of this Subchapter apply to new
development, redevelopment, substantial improvement, and expansion of all uses
in all districts, with the exception of the Agriculture (AG) district. New
homes constructed on existing lots platted prior to the effective date of this
Title are exempt. The requirements of this Subchapter only apply to new lots
platted after the effective date of this Title. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-4-11: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND DUPLEX DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Exterior Wall Construction. For the purpose of public health, safety
and community resiliency, the exterior wall construction of homes in all
Single-Family Residential (RS) zoning districts and the Residential Duplex (RD)
zoning district, but expressly excluding the Agriculture (AG) district, shall
conform to the requirements set out below:
      1.   Exterior wall construction on each story or floor of every single-
family residential dwelling unit shall consist of at least 60 percent masonry
construction, exclusive of the following:
         a.   Windows, window trim, window box-outs, and bay windows that do
not extend to the foundation, exterior walls that do not bear on the
foundation, doors, dormers and gables over the entrance of an extended garage.
         b.   Any rear wall area cantilevered 12 inches or more from the wood
frame wall.
         c.   Any side wall area cantilevered 12 inches or more from the wood
frame wall, provided, however, that such cantilevered side wall area shall not
exceed 35 percent of the total exterior wall area of the side wall from which
it is cantilevered.
         d.   Any rear multi-story straight wall with an exterior surface
construction that is in excess of 70 percent glass or windows.
         e.   Any wall area above a first-floor roof where the exterior masonry
veneer cannot directly bear upon the foundation.
The use of decorative metal as façade accents shall be counted toward
fulfilling the masonry requirement.
      2.   The exterior area or sides of chimney flues on exterior walls that
are visible from the street shall be enclosed in 100 percent masonry veneer
construction, except that chimney flues not visible from the street may be
enclosed by materials permitted by the building code for exterior exposure and
in compliance with the flue manufacturer’s recommendation.
      3.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any exterior wall of any residential
dwelling unit facing a street, park or school shall consist of 100 percent
masonry construction, exclusive only of windows, doors, dormers and gables over
the entrance of an extended garage.
   B.   Approved and Prohibited Materials.
      1.   Masonry building materials include stone, brick and stucco. Also
acceptable are cementitious fiberboard, fiber cement siding, painted or exposed
aggregate concrete, split face or integral block architectural concrete masonry
unit (CMU), Hardie plank siding, or any other concrete material that simulates
wood, or any equivalent, permanent architecturally finished materials.
      2.   Approved materials for non-structural architectural details include
cementitious fiberboard, seamless steel siding, stucco, Exterior Insulation and
Finish Systems (EIFS), and decorative siding.
      3.   Prohibited materials for exterior wall construction include smooth
face CMU, unfinished concrete, corrugated metal, vinyl, aluminum siding, wood
siding, plywood, sheet pressboard, EIFS, wood, medium density fiberboard,
particle board and Masonite. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-4-12: MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Applicability. The requirements of this Subsection apply to new
development, redevelopment, substantial improvement, and expansion of multi-
family residential development in the districts in which such uses are
permitted.
   B.   Exterior Street-Facing Facades. On a building elevation that fronts on
or most directly faces a public street right-of-way or that is adjacent to any
single-family residential (RS) zoning district, at least 50 percent of the
exterior wall construction shall consist of decorative materials as listed
below. Building elevations that do not face a public street right-of-way or any
single-family residential (RS) zoning district shall utilize at least 25
percent decorative materials.
      1.   Decorative materials include:
         a.   Brick, including thin brick, faux brick and simulated CMU brick.
         b.   Stone, including cast stone or faux decorative stone.
         c.   Brick or stone veneer.
         d.   Window glazing and fenestration materials.
         e.   Decorative metals.
         f.   Portland cement stucco.
         g.   CMU, including split face, weathered face, and integral
sandblasted face block.
      2.   The remainder of the building elevation(s) may be constructed of the
following secondary building materials:
         a.   EIFS if used a minimum of eight feet above grade.
         b.   Fiber cement siding.
         c.   Hardie plank siding, or any other concrete material that
simulates wood.
         e.   Decorative siding.
         f.   Wood materials, or combinations thereof.
      3.   Limited Materials. Materials that may be used in limited quantities
for limited visibility exterior walls, siding, or cladding, with the approval
of the Planning Commission, include:
         a.   Metal wall siding or panels.
         b.   Corrugated or ribbed metal panels.
         c.   Smooth-faced or untextured, unfinished concrete block.
      4.   Prohibited Materials. Building materials prohibited on all multi-
family residential buildings include plywood, plastic, wood fiberboard, under-
fired or unfired clay, sand, or shale rock, and painted brick.
   C.   Building Articulation. Any building elevation that faces a public
street right-of-way shall include articulation in the form of variable roof
forms, roof lines, arrangement of doors and windows on the elevation,
balconies, colors, materials, or other architectural design elements.
   D.   Garages. When a garage is located between a public street right-of-way
and the façade of a primary building, a Type B bufferyard, as set out in
Section
11-6-10, Screening and Bufferyards, shall be required. The materials and colors
of garages shall be compatible with the primary buildings.
   E.   Mechanical Equipment. Ground and roof-mounted mechanical equipment
shall be screened from all public views, as visible at all site property lines.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-4-13: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   Appearance.
      1.   Removal of Manufactured Home Wheels. All wheels, axles, and running
gear shall be removed from manufactured homes.
      2.   Skirting. The open space between the finished grade of the pad on
which each manufactured home is located and the exterior edges of the finished
floor of each unit shall be skirted as follows:
         a.   Installation. Skirting is installed on a concrete footing so
there is no visible gap between the finished floor and the ground.
         b.   Materials. The material used for skirting is rock, brick,
manufactured vinyl, or concrete masonry construction, compatible in appearance
with the manufactured home, and allows for ventilation and drainage.
         c.   Design. Skirting consists of a continuous, complete, opaque, and
rigid surface that lends permanency to the appearance of the unit and
completely screens the crawl space under the unit.
      3.   Roofing.
         a.   The roof shall be pitched, with a minimum vertical rise of four
feet for every 12 feet of horizontal run.
         b.   Roofing material shall be comparable to that used on homes in
standard residential construction, including, but not limited to, approved
wood, asphalt composition shingles, or fiberglass. Corrugated aluminum,
corrugated fiberglass, and metal roofs are prohibited.
      4.   Siding. Exterior siding shall consist predominantly of:
         a.   Decorative vinyl or metal horizontal lap siding with a
reflectivity that does not exceed that of gloss white paint;
         b.   Wood or hardboard; or
         c.   Brick, stone, or stucco comparable in composition, appearance,
and durability to that used in standard residential construction.
   B.   Perimeter Buffering. When abutting any Residential Single-Family (RS)
zoning district or a public street right-of-way, a manufactured home park
shall:
      1.   Provide a Type B Bufferyard as set out in Section
11-6-10, Screening and Bufferyards; and
      2.   Construct an opaque fence or wall along all side and rear property
lines adjacent to said districts and streets as set out in Section
11-6-10, Screening and Bufferyards. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-4-14: NONRESIDENTIAL AND MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to ensure that nonresidential,
public, institutional, and mixed-use development have high-quality, well-
designed buildings and sites that contribute to the unique character and
aesthetics of the City.
   B.   Applicability. This Section sets out the standards for nonresidential,
public, institutional, and mixed-use development as follows:
      1.   The standards in this Section are in addition to all other standards
of this Title.
      2.   The standards in this Section apply to all new development,
redevelopment, substantial improvements, and expansion of nonresidential and
mixed-use buildings in the Office Low Intensity (OL), Office Medium Intensity
(OM), Commercial Shopping Center (CS), Commercial General (CG), and Industrial
Light Manufacturing and Research and Development (IL) zoning districts.
      3.   The standards are organized by building size, and by use for self-
storage centers.
      4.   In a mixed-use center, or a mixed-use PUD, the requirements of this
Section shall be the minimum design standards that will pertain to each
specific land use. In the case of a mixed-use PUD, design in the PUD shall be
governed by the additional requirements of the PUD and shall be expected to
provide a unified design concept.
   C.   Utilities. If the development involves the extension or relocation of
existing overhead utilities, all existing utility and electrical service lines
(30,000 volts or less) located on or adjacent to the site shall be placed
underground. If circumstances exist where the utility provider determines that
the placement of utilities underground creates a safety hazard or is
impractical by way of the reliability of the circuit, this requirement may be
waived by the City Planner upon verification of such circumstances by the
utility.
   D.   Roof-Mounted Equipment. Roof-mounted equipment shall be fully screened
from all ground- level views, as visible at all site property lines, by
parapets, sloped roof systems, or other methods, in a form that is integrated
into the building design.
   E.   Loading Docks, Trash Compactors, Dumpsters, and Bale and Pallet
Storage. Loading, trash collection, and the collection of other waste products
shall be fully screened and integrated into the building design as set out in
Section
11-6-10, Screening and Bufferyards.
   F.   Exterior Building Finish Materials. The same standards for permitted
materials shall apply in this Section as in Section
11-4-12, Multi-Family Residential Development.
   G.   Design Standards.
      1.   Building Design Integration. When buildings of any size are
constructed as an out-parcel or as the primary building on a site that is part
of a larger common development plan with integrated access, parking, and
driveways, building designs of all sized buildings shall have a unified design
theme in terms of materials, colors, and other design elements that unify the
appearance of the center.
      2.   Buildings and Centers Less than 10,000 Square Feet (SF) of Gross
Floor Area. Elevations of building walls that are within direct public view
shall have certain percentages of decorative facade surfaces as follows:
         a.   Front and Street-Facing Side Elevations. The building elevations
shall be constructed with a decorative material on 60 percent of each façade,
excluding doors and windows, with the remainder faced with a secondary or
limited material as described in Section
11-4-12.
         b.   Non-Street-Facing Side Elevations. A non-street-facing interior
or side elevation shall be constructed with a decorative material on least 30
percent of the facade, measured from the front facade toward the rear of the
building. The remainder may be faced with a secondary or limited material.
         c.   Rear Elevations. Rear elevations generally may be constructed
with a secondary or limited material on 100 percent of the facade elevation. If
a rear elevation is visible to a public right-of-way or residential zoning
district, it shall be constructed with a decorative material on 60 percent of
the facade, with the remainder faced with a secondary or limited material.
      3.   Buildings and Centers Larger than 10,000 SF of Gross Floor Area.
Elevations of building walls that are within direct public view shall have
certain percentages of decorative facade surfaces as follows:
         a.   Front and Street-Facing Side Elevations. The building elevations
shall be constructed with a decorative material on 75 percent of each facade,
excluding doors and windows, with the remainder faced with a secondary or
limited material as described in Section
11-4-12.
         b.   Non-Street-Facing Side Elevations. A non-street facing interior
or side elevation shall be constructed with a decorative material on at least
30 percent of the facade, measured from the front facade toward the rear of the
building. The remainder may be faced with a secondary or limited material.
         c.   Rear Elevations. Rear elevations generally may be constructed
with a secondary or limited material on 100 percent of the facade elevation. If
a rear elevation is visible to a public right-of-way or residential zoning
district, it shall be constructed with a decorative material on 75 percent of
the facade, with the remainder faced with a secondary or limited material.
         d.   Building Entries. Principal building entrances and vestibules
shall be designed to be clearly identifiable.
         e.   Visual Interest and Anti-Monotony. Any facade that is visible to
a public right-of-way or from any residential zoning district shall meet the
following standards:
            (1)   Building Wall Offsets. The facade shall appear to be divided
into modules that are not larger than 100 feet in width to break up the
appearance of building mass and add visual appeal.
               (A)   Modules shall be offset from each other by a horizontal
recess or projection of the facade that measures 10 percent or more of the
building height.
               (B)   Individual modules shall be architecturally differentiated
by two or more of the methods for avoidance of blank walls as listed in
Subsection G.3.e.(3), below.
            (2)   Roofline Articulation. For flat roofs or facades with a
horizontal eave, fascia or parapet, the roofline shall be varied in height by
four feet or more so that no straight segment exceeds 50 feet in horizontal
dimension. This standard may also be satisfied by incorporating design elements
that meet the same height variation requirement, which may include, but are not
limited to:
               (A)   Functional or faux dormers.
               (B)   Gables or other compound roof shape in which the highest
ridge line and the lowest ridge line have a height difference of four feet or
more.
               (C)   Towers.
               (D)   Functional or faux chimneys.
Any such design element shall be proportional to the building so that the
element appears as a substantial, but not overwhelming, architectural feature.
            (3)   Avoidance of Blank Walls. Any building facade that is visible
to a public right-of- way or from any residential zoning district shall not
have an area of uninterrupted blank wall space that is larger than 15 feet tall
by 25 feet wide. This standard may be satisfied by incorporating design
features which include, but are not limited to, two or more of the following:
               (A)   Windows or faux window openings.
               (B)   Doors or faux door openings.
               (C)   Recessed or projecting building entries.
               (D)   Projecting oriel windows.
               (E)   Window moldings.
               (F)   Arcades.
               (G)   Recessed or projecting porches.
               (H)   Recessed or projecting balconies.
               (I)   Functional or decorative canopies and awnings.
               (J)   Cornices.
               (K)   String courses.
               (L)   Columns.
               (M)   Wall sconces.
               (N)   Brick patterning, including soldier courses, or other
building material or color variations.
               (O)   Score lines.
               (P)   Wall signs that comply with Chapter 7, Signs.
               (Q)   Other architectural detailing that serves to relieve the
appearance of the blank wall.
   H.   Self-Storage Center Design.
      1.   Self-Contained Facilities.
         a.   If the facility is self-contained, with all access to storage
units provided from interior corridors, the facility shall be designed in
accordance with the design standards for nonresidential development set out in
this Section, above.
         b.   Side and rear facades that face other commercial or industrial
districts and are not visible from a public right-of-way are allowed a
reduction in the minimum extent of decorative building material from 50 percent
to 25 percent, with the remainder faced with a secondary or limited material.
         c.   Exterior fencing or a screening wall along a public right-of-way
or visible from any residential zoning district shall be constructed with a
decorative material. Chain link fencing is permitted only where it is not
visible to the public or from any residential zoning district.
      2.   Exterior Entrance Facilities.
         a.   Facades of such facilities that face public rights-of-way or
residential districts shall be designed in accordance with all design standards
for nonresidential development set out in this Section, above.
         b.   The amount of secondary and limited materials that may be used on
any facade that is not visible to a public right-of-way may be reduced from 50
percent to 25 percent if the façade is:
            (1)   Screened by other existing commercial or industrial buildings
from public rights- of-way or residential zoning districts; or
            (2)   Screened year round by a 100 percent opaque buffer in the
form of a wall, fence, berm, landscaping, or combination of such elements.
         c.   Exterior fencing or a screening wall along a public right-of-way
or visible from any residential zoning district shall be constructed with a
decorative material and shall be accompanied by a Type B bufferyard as set out
in Section
11-6-10, Screening and Bufferyards, along with all other required landscaping.
Chain link fencing is permitted only where it is not visible to the public or
from any residential zoning district.
         d.   Any open air exterior storage of oversized vehicles, recreation
vehicles, or similar high-profile materials or equipment shall be placed on the
site at a location where such vehicles, materials or equipment are not visible
to a public right-of-way or from any residential zoning district. (Ord. 746,
11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 5
ACCESSORY USE AND BUILDING STANDARDS
SECTION:
Purpose And Application
11-5-1: Purpose
11-5-2: Application
Residential Uses
11-5-3: Accessory Uses, Structures, And Buildings
Nonresidential And Mixed Uses
11-5-4: Accessory Uses, Structures, And Buildings
11-5-5: Outdoor Display Of Merchandise
PURPOSE AND APPLICATION
11-5-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   This Chapter establishes the regulations for certain accessory uses,
structures, and buildings.
   B.   Permitted accessory uses, structures, and buildings are:
      1.   Limited to those customarily associated with the principal use of
the property, or a primary building, and are incidental and subordinate to the
principal use or primary structure; and
      2.   Located on the same lot or parcel as the associated principal use or
principal building. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-5-2: APPLICATION:
Standards for accessory uses, structures, and buildings apply as follows:
   A.   Residential uses, as set out in Chapter 5, Subchapter 2, Residential
Uses.
   B.   Nonresidential and mixed uses, as set out in Chapter 5, Subchapter 3,
Nonresidential and Mixed Uses. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
RESIDENTIAL USES
11-5-3: ACCESSORY USES, STRUCTURES, AND BUILDINGS:
   A.   Accessory Uses, Structures and Buildings Permitted. Accessory uses,
structures, and buildings customarily incidental to a principal residential
use, or a principal residential building, in a residential district are
permitted in such residential districts.
   B.   Conditions for Accessory Uses, Structures, and Buildings.
      1.   An accessory building erected as an integral part of the principal
building shall be made structurally a part thereof, shall have a common wall
therewith, and shall comply with the requirements applicable to the principal
building.
      2.   A detached accessory building shall not be located in the front or
side yard or encroach upon a minimum building setback line, but this limitation
shall not apply to carports, provided the minimum required front yard or side
yard or setback line is provided and the structure complies with all building
code requirements.
      3.   Within the rear yard, a detached accessory building shall be located
at least five feet from any interior lot line.
      4.   One unoccupied recreational vehicle, a length of 30 feet or less,
may be parked upon a lot as an accessory use. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
NONRESIDENTIAL AND MIXED USES
11-5-4: ACCESSORY USES, STRUCTURES, AND BUILDINGS:
   A.   Accessory Uses, Structures, and Buildings Permitted. Accessory uses,
structures, and buildings customarily incidental to a principal use, or a
principal building, permitted in a nonresidential district are permitted in
such nonresidential districts.
   B.   Conditions for Accessory Uses, Structures, and Buildings.
      1.   Accessory buildings shall meet the minimum building setback lines of
the applicable district.
      2.   An accessory building erected as an integral part of the principal
building shall be structurally a part thereof, shall have a common wall
therewith, and shall comply with all requirements applicable to the principal
building.
      3.   Accessory outdoor storage of materials, equipment, or products
within 200 feet of any abutting R district shall be screened by the erection of
a screening wall or fence along the lot line or lines in common with the
abutting R district. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-5-5: OUTDOOR DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE:
The outdoor display and sale of merchandise, where permitted, is subject to the
requirements of this Section. An outdoor display area shall involve items for
sale by a business in a permanent structure, enclosure, or designated area on
the same site from which the business is operated.
   A.   Seasonal Display Areas.
      1.   Temporary seasonal outdoor sales areas that are detached from the
principal building may not exceed an area of 15 percent of the gross floor area
of the principal building. The area must be:
         a.   Contained within a clearly defined space, as depicted on an
approved site plan; and.
         b.   Clearly demarcated in a temporary enclosure, as depicted on an
approved site plan.
   B.   Permanent Display Areas.
      1.   A permanent outdoor display area, such as, but not limited to, a
garden center, shall be attached to a principal building and be:
         a.   Enclosed by a decorative fence or wall;
         b.   Not larger than 25 percent of the gross floor area of the
principal building; and
         c.   Subject to the design requirements set out in Section
11-4-14, Nonresidential and Mixed-Use Development.
   C.   Sidewalk Display. Sidewalk displays on private sidewalks that abut a
principal building shall be permitted only if:
      1.   There is at least four feet of ADA accessible width for use by
pedestrian traffic;
      2.   Merchandise does not impede access to or from any required building
fire exit; and
      3.   Displays are located within 60 feet of an entrance to the principal
use. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 6
SITE DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
Parking, Loading, And Access
11-6-1: Purpose And Applicability
11-6-2: Computing Parking
11-6-3: Off-Street Parking And Loading
11-6-4: Design And Use Of Parking And Loading Areas
11-6-5: Special Studies
11-6-6: General Access And Circulation
Landscaping, Screening, and Bufferyards
11-6-7: Purpose And Applicability
11-6-8: Credit for Existing Trees
11-6-9: Development Landscaping
11-6-10: Screening And Bufferyards
11-6-11: Landscape Plan And Landscape Installation
11-6-12: Landscaping, Bufferyard, And Screening Maintenance
PARKING, LOADING, AND ACCESS
11-6-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose of this Subchapter to ensure that adequate
off-street parking and loading is provided with the construction, alteration,
remodeling or a change in the use of any building or land.
   B.   Applicability. The off-street parking and off-street loading
requirements, whether they apply to principal or accessory uses, are the
minimum requirement for the initiation, enlargement, or change of use, and such
parking and loading shall be provided as follows:
      1.   For all buildings and structures erected, and all uses of land,
established after the effective date hereof, parking and loading facilities
shall be provided as required by this Subchapter.
      2.   When the intensity of use of any use, building, structure, or
premises is increased through the addition of dwelling units, floor area,
seating capacity, or other units of measurement specified herein for required
parking or loading facilities, additional off- street parking and loading
facilities, as required herein, shall be provided for such increase in
intensity of use.
      3.   When the existing use of a building or structure is changed to a new
use, off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required
for such new use. If the building or structure was erected prior to the
effective date hereof, additional parking and loading facilities that are
mandatory shall only be provided for the amount by which the requirements for
the new use would exceed those for the existing use.
      4.   Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities in existence on
the effective date hereof and located on the same lot as the building or use
served, shall not hereafter be reduced if they are currently less than the
requirements of this Subchapter, and shall not be reduced below the
requirements for the same use under the provisions of this Title.
      5.   Any existing building or use that is enlarged, structurally altered,
or remodeled to the extent of increasing, or changing the use, by more than 50
percent as it existed at the effective date hereof, shall provide adequate off-
street parking and loading for the entire building and use in accordance with
the requirements of this Subchapter. When the enlargement, structural
alteration, or remodeling will not increase or change the area of the building
by more than 50 percent, additional off-street parking and loading shall only
be required for the new floor area and use. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-6-2: COMPUTING PARKING:
   A.   Calculations. The number of required off-street parking spaces is
calculated according to the formulas set out in this Subchapter, unless
modified by one of the alternative methods of calculating off-street parking
set out in in this Subchapter.
   B.   Variables for Calculating Required Parking. The variables used for off-
street parking calculations are measured as follows:
      1.   Per Square Foot (sf) of Parking Floor Area (PFA). The phrase “per sf
of PFA” means that the number of parking spaces is calculated at 85 percent of
the gross floor area in a building for the particular use plus the total area
of any parts of the parcel proposed for development that are delineated and
used in a manner that is comparable in function and intensity of use to the use
of the inside of the building (i.e., outdoor dining areas).
      2.   Per Dwelling Unit (du) or Per Bedroom (BR). The phrase “per ‘#’ DU”
means that the number of parking spaces is calculated based on the number of
dwelling units. In some cases, the parking requirements are based on the number
of bedrooms (“per ‘#’ BR unit”).
      3.   Per Bed. The phrase “per bed” means that the number of parking
spaces is based on the number of beds in the facility instead of the number of
sleeping rooms or some other measure.
      4.   Per Employee. The phrase “per employee” means that the number of
parking spaces is based on the shift in which the maximum number of employees
are present.
      5.   Per Seat Capacity. The phrase “per seat” means that the number of
parking spaces is based on the number of seats that are provided for guests
(patrons, members, etc.), with benches or pews measured as one seat per each
two feet of width.
      6.   Per Square Feet (sf) of Assembly Area. The phrase “per sf of
assembly area” means that the number of parking spaces is based on the number
of square feet in the largest room used for assembly (i.e., a school gymnasium,
theater or lunch room).
      7.   Special Studies Required. There are certain uses, such as, but not
limited to schools, parks, and hospitals, where the required number of parking
spaces is dependent upon the specific details of the proposed use and how those
uses are conducted, such that parking formulas are not appropriate for such
uses. The applicant and the City each have an interest in providing the right
amount of parking, but not an excessive amount of parking. For those uses where
a special study is required, the applicant shall utilize the processes set out
in Section
11-6-5, Special Studies. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-6-3: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off-street parking and loading shall be provided as set out in the following
tables:
TABLE 11-6-3.1
Residential Use Parking Requirements
Use Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
Use                                Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
Residential Uses (Housing Types)
Single-Family Detached
   Single-Family Detached       2 spaces per du.
   Manufactured Home            2 spaces per du.
Single-Family Attached
   Duplex                       2 spaces per du.
   Multiplex                    2 spaces per du.
   Townhouse                    2 spaces per du.
Multi-Family (8+ dwelling units)
   Apartment                    1.5 spaces for efficiency unit and 1 BR;
                                   2 spaces per du for 2 BR plus.
Special Neighborhood Types
   Manufactured Home Park or    Individual spaces as set out above + 2
Subdivision                        visitor spaces per 5 manufactured homes.
   Recreational Vehicle (RV) Par1 space per RV pad + 2 visitor spaces
                                   per each 5 RV spaces.
Commercial Uses of the Home
                                   1 space per each 3 children on the
   Child-Care, Family Home      premises at any one time + 1 space per
                                   each provider, staff member, or employee
                                   on duty at any one time.
   Child-Care Facility, Group HoGreater of: 1 space per 3 rooms or 1
                                   space per BR.
 
TABLE 11-6-3.2
Institutional and Recreation Use Parking Requirements
Use Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
                                                                           Required
                                                                           Off-
Use                                                                        Street
                                                                           Parking
                                                                           Spaces
Institutional Uses
                                                                           1 space
                                                                           per 3
                                                                           dwelling
                                                                           units; 1
   Assisted Living Facility                                             space per
                                                                           each
                                                                           employee
                                                                           + 1 space
                                                                           for each
                                                                           4 beds.
                                                                           1 space
   Child Care Facility, Day-Care                                        per 300
                                                                           sf of
                                                                           PFA.
   Hospital                                                             Special
                                                                           Study.
                                                                           1 space
   Medical Office / Clinic / Medical Lab                                per 250
                                                                           sf of
                                                                           PFA.
                                                                           1 space
                                                                           per 3
                                                                           beds + 1
                                                                           space per
   Nursing / Convalescent Home                                          2
                                                                           employees
                                                                           on the
                                                                           largest
                                                                           shift.
                                                                           1 space
   Place of Public Assembly (event facilities, meeting halls, fraternal per 200
organizations)                                                             sf of
                                                                           PFA.
   School, Private / Public                                             Special
                                                                           Study.
Recreation and Amusement Uses
                                                                           6 spaces
   Commercial Amusement, Indoor                                         per 1,000
                                                                           sf.
   Commercial Amusement, Outdoor                                        Special
                                                                           Study.
                                                                           1 space
   Recreation and Fitness, Indoor                                       per 300
                                                                           sf of
                                                                           PFA.
                                                                           Greater
                                                                           of: 4
                                                                           spaces
                                                                           per 5
   Sexually-Oriented Business                                           seats; or
                                                                           1 space
                                                                           per 250
                                                                           sf of
                                                                           PFA.
 
TABLE 11-6-3.3
Commercial Use Parking Requirements
Use Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
Use                                      Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
Commercial Uses
                                         On-site consumption: 1 space per 75 sf
   Alcohol Beverage Sales, Tavern     of PFA. Off-site consumption: 1 space
                                         per 300 sf of PFA.
   Animal Grooming Facility           1 space per 400 sf of PFA.
   Animal Boarding or Veterinarian    1 space per 250 sf of PFA.
Services
                                         1 space per 75 sf of PFA (pertains to
   Drive-In, Drive-Through Facility   uses where the drive-through / drive-
                                         in is the primary use, such as a drug
                                         store).
   Heavy Retail, General Retail, Home 1 space per 250 sf of PFA + 1 space
Center                                   per 1,000 sf outdoor sales and display
                                         area.
   Mixed-Use                          Based on use mix, or Special Study.
                                         1 space per 300 sf of PFA of office/
   Nursery / Greenhouse, Retail       sales area + 1 space per 5,000 sf of
                                         nursery area.
   Office, General                    1 space per 300 sf of PFA.
                                         1 space per guest room + 1 space per
                                         300 sf of PFA of meeting rooms,
                                         ballrooms, administrative offices, and
   Overnight Accommodations (hotel,   areas used for self-service breakfast
motel)                                   for guests only + 75% of parking
                                         requirements for integrated
                                         restaurants and bars open to the
                                         public.
   Pawn Shop                          1 space per 200 sf of PFA.
                                         1 space per each 200 sf of PFA; or 1
   Restaurant                         space per each 4 seats, whichever is
                                         greater.
   Vehicle Gas or Fueling Station     1 space per 250 sf of PFA (may count
                                         pump island stacking spaces).
                                         1 space per employee on the largest
   Vehicle Sales, Rental, and Service shift + 3 spaces per service bay or
                                         fueling stall + 1 space per 125 sf of
                                         PFA of convenience store floor area.
                                         1 space per employee + 1 space per
Wholesale                                business vehicle parked on-site + 2
                                         spaces for customer parking.
 
TABLE 11-6-3.4
Agriculture, Industrial and Utility Use Parking Requirements
Use Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
Use                                   Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
Agriculture, General   
   Agriculture, General            N/A
                                      1 space per 300 sf of PFA of office /
   Nursery / Wholesale             indoor sales area + 1 space per 5,000 sf
                                      of outdoor sales area.
Industrial Uses   
   Heavy Industry                  Special Study.
   Light Industry                  1 space per 400 sf of PFA or Special
                                      Study.
   Mining / Extraction             1 space per employee on the largest
                                      shift.
   Oil / Gas Operations            1 space per employee on the largest
                                      shift.
   Storage, Self                   1 space per 25 storage units + 1 space
                                      per 300 sf of office space.
   Warehousing and Logistics       4 spaces per 5,000 sf of PFA + 1 space
                                      per each additional 5,000 sf of PFA.
   Waste Transfer Station / Recycli1 space per 500 sf facility.
   Transportation Uses              
   Airport                         Special Study.
   Helistop                        Special Study.
   Parking, Stand-Alone            No minimum.
Utility Uses   
   Power Generation                Special Study.
   Public Utilities                Special Study.
Wireless Telecommunication Tower (WTT) Uses   
   WTT, Freestanding               2 spaces per tower.
 
TABLE 11-6-3.5
Required Loading Spaces
 
Gross Floor Area (square feet)             Minimum Loading Spaces
Less than 40,000 sf.                       1
40,001 sf to 80,000 sf.                    2
80,001 sf to 120,000 sf.                   3
Each additional 40,000 sf over 120,000 sf. 1 additional
 
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-6-4: DESIGN AND USE OF PARKING AND LOADING AREAS:
   A.   General.
      1.   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall not occupy required
livability space. Space allocated to any required off-street loading berth
shall not be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-street parking
facilities. Space allocated to any required off- street parking shall not be
used to satisfy the space requirements of any off-street loading facilities.
      2.   Within front and exterior side yards in the RM districts, except the
RMT district, not more than one vehicle shall be parked for each 600 square
feet of area contained in front and exterior side yards.
      3.   Required off-street parking spaces and required off-street loading
berths shall not be used for the storage, sale, display of merchandise,
dismantling, or servicing of any vehicle, equipment, materials, or supplies,
except where expressly permitted in Title 11 in a defined area designated on an
approved site plan, such as, but not limited to, seasonal sales, for a limited
time period.
      4.   Required off-street parking spaces shall be located on the same lot,
tract, parcel, or premises as the use being served, or on other property of the
same or greater intensity zoning classification, provided that the owner of the
premises where shared parking is proposed consents to such sharing in writing,
has excess parking exceeding the requirements of Title 11 for the use of that
site, and will have a continuing right to use the spaces for parking. When the
required off-street parking spaces are not located on the same lot, tract,
parcel, or premises being served, the distance from the parking area to an
entrance to the building or use shall not exceed 500 feet, measured along the
shortest available pedestrian route with public access.
      5.   Required enclosed off-street parking and loading areas shall meet
the development standards of the district in which the facility is located.
      6.   The capacity of an off-street parking area shall be the number of
parking spaces having required dimensions as shown in
Table 11-6-4.1, Parking Module Standards, and illustrated in Figures
11-6-4.1 and
11-6-4.2.
      7.   Required off-street parking shall be arranged so that no maneuvering
incidental to parking movements takes place on any public street.
      8.   Where several different property uses will share a joint parking
area, the parking requirements shall be computed based upon the overall
development and the area of each use. For any use not listed, or where the
listed regulations are not applicable, the parking requirements shall be
determined by the City Planner.
      9.   Lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area shall be by
constant light and shall be so arranged as to direct the light away from
properties zoned residential which do not contain uses for which the parking
and lighting is being provided.
      10.   Unenclosed off-street parking areas shall be surfaced with a dust-
free all-weather material. Surfacing shall be completed prior to the initiation
of the use.
   B.   Setback and Screening Requirements for Off-Street Parking and Loading
Areas.
      1.   Off-street loading areas shall not be located within 50 feet of any
abutting property within any R district unless it is wholly within an enclosed
building or screened on all sides abutting the R district by a screening wall
or fence. The loading dock shall be screened from all public views and
residential districts by either a 10-foot tall wing wall incorporated into the
building design or an opaque decorative fence or year-round opaque landscape
hedge, each with sufficient height to block the line-of-sight of the dock from
the residential use or zoning district, an earthen berm, another building, or a
combination of those elements.
      2.   Unenclosed off-street parking areas shall be screened by the
installation of a three-foot tall opaque hedge to screen the parking area from
all street rights-of-way. When an off- street parking area adjoins a
residential district, a Type D bufferyard shall be required for parking less
than 20 feet from a residential use or zoning district. If the off-street
parking area is more than 20 feet from a residential use or district, a Type B
bufferyard is required.
   C.   Off-Street Parking Areas.
      1.   Parking Module Design.
Table 11-6-4.1, Parking Module Standards, sets out minimum standards for
parking space depth, parking aisles, and combined parking aisle / stall
modules. Figures
11-6-4.1 and
11-6-4.2 show single- and double-row parking modules that illustrate the
standards in
Table 11-6-4.1.
TABLE 11-6-4.1
Parking Module Standards
Dimension One-Way Parallel Space Angle (degrees)
                           30 45 60 90
Dimension                            One-Way Parallel Space Angle (degrees)
                                                      30  45  60  90
Single Row of Parking
Stall depth                          9'               18' 21' 22' 18' or 20'
Parking aisle                        12'              12' 13' 18' 24'
Minimum width of module (stall depth 21'              30' 34' 40' 40 ‘ or 44'
and aisle)
Two Rows of Parking
Stall depth                          18'              36' 42' 44' 40' or 44'
Parking aisle                        12'              12' 13' 18' 24'
Minimum width of module (stall depth 30'              48' 55' 62' 60' or 64'
and aisle)
 
FIGURE 11-6-4.1
Parking Module Standards : Single Parking Row and Aisle
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2070.png]
 
 
Dimension                            One-Way Parallel Space Angle (degrees)
                                                      30  45  60  90
Stall depth                          9'               18' 21' 22' 18' or 20'
Parking aisle                        12'              12' 13' 18' 24'
Minimum width of module (stall depth 21'              30' 34' 40' 40 ‘ or 44'
and aisle)
 
FIGURE 11-6-4.2
Parking Module Standards: Double Parking Rows and Aisle
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2072.png]
 
 
Dimension                            One-Way Parallel Space Angle (degrees)
                                                      30  45  60  90
Stall depth                          18'              36' 42' 44' 40' or 44'
Parking aisle                        12'              12' 13' 18' 24'
Minimum width of module (stall depth 30'              48' 55' 62' 60' or 64'
and aisle)
 
      2.   Off-street parking spaces shall be clearly marked.
      3.   Parking spaces abutting an adjoining property line or street right-
of-way shall be provided with wheel guards or bumper guards so located that no
part of a normally parked vehicle will extend beyond the property line. When
wheel guards are used, they shall be centered at least 2.5 feet from the
property line for 90 degree parking, 2.3 feet for 60 degree parking, and 2.0
feet for 45 degree parking.
      4.   Pedestrian access to buildings shall be provided from rights-of-way
and parking areas by means of a pathway leading to at least one public
entrance. Such pathway shall be cleared of all obstructions related to
construction activity prior to the opening to the general public. Where curbs
exist along such pathways, as between a parking area surface and sidewalk
surface, inclined curb approaches or curb cuts having a gradient of not more
than one foot in 12 feet and a width of not less than four feet shall be
provided for access by wheelchairs.
      5.   Accessible pathways to each building entrance from parking areas
shall have the number of level parking spaces set out in
Table 11-6-4.2, Number of Accessible Parking Spaces. Each space shall be
identified by above-grade signs as being reserved for persons with physical
disabilities. A minimum of two spaces for persons with disabilities shall be
required for industrial uses in industrial districts. All accessible parking
spaces shall not be less than 12 feet in width.
TABLE 11-6-4.2
Number of Accessible Parking Spaces2
Number of Parking Spaces Number of Accessible Spaces Number of Spaces that Must
Requiredby this Section1                             be Van Accessible
Number of Parking Spaces Number of Accessible Spaces Number of Spaces that Must
Requiredby this Section1                             be Van Accessible
1 to 25                  1                           1
26 to 50                 2                           1
51 to 75                 3                           1
76 to 100                4                           1
101 to 150               5                           1
151 to 200               6                           1
201 to 300               7                           1
301 to 400               8                           1
401 to 500               9                           2
501 to 1,000             2 percent of total number   1 out of 8 accessible
                         of parking spaces           parking spaces, rounded up
                         20, plus 1 for each 100     1 out of 8 accessible
1,001 and over           parking spaces in excess of parking spaces, rounded up
                         1,000 parking spaces
 
NOTES:
1   This number includes all applicable reductions in the number of required
off-street parking spaces. However, on-street parking spaces that are credited
to a proposed use shall be included in this number.
2   In all cases, the minimum required to comply with all ADA requirements
shall be required and provided.
      6.   Parking spaces for persons with disabilities shall be hard surfaced
and meet the paving requirements of the City, regardless of the use or zoning
of the property. Further, there shall be provided a paved, hard-surfaced area
from the parking area to the primary use of the property. In all cases, all ADA
requirements must be met.
      7.   Each parking space for persons with disabilities shall be marked
with the standard international wheelchair symbol and with a sign not less than
12 inches by 18 inches posted at a height not less than three feet or more than
eight feet. In all cases, markings must meet ADA requirements.
      8.   Parking spaces for persons with physical disabilities shall be
located as close as possible to elevators, ramps, walkways and entrances.
Parking spaces for persons with physical disabilities shall be located so that
such persons are not compelled to wheel or to walk behind parked cars to reach
entrances, ramps, walkways and elevators.
   D.   Off-Street Loading Areas.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of this Subsection is to ensure that an
adequate off-street loading area is provided with the construction, alteration,
or change of use of any business building or structure, or with any change in
land use.
      2.   Loading Areas Required. The owner and the occupier of any property
upon which a business is located shall provide off-street area for loading and
unloading.
      3.   Site Plan Required. Any person desiring a building permit for the
construction, alteration, or change in land use or change of use of any
business building or structure with existing or proposed loading areas shall
submit a site plan to the City Planner designating the number, dimensions and
locations of all loading areas and all proposed avenues of ingress and egress
to the property from adjacent public streets. The City Planner shall refer the
application for TAC review, and shall not issue a Zoning Clearance Permit if it
is determined that the proposed loading and unloading facilities will present a
direct or indirect hazard to vehicular or pedestrian traffic or will not comply
with the requirements of this Title, such as, but not limited to, screening,
buffering, location, or proximity to a residential zoning district.
      4.   Minimum Required Design Criteria.
         a.   Unless otherwise specified, a required off-street loading berth
shall be at least 10 feet in width and 30 feet in length, exclusive of aisles,
and shall have a vertical clearance of at least 14 feet.
         b.   Required off-street loading berths shall be provided access to
and from a public street or alley by an access drive of at least 15 feet in
width designed to permit convenient off-street access and maneuverability to
the berth by semitrailer trucks.
         c.   Unenclosed off-street loading areas shall be surfaced with a
dust-free all-weather material.
         d.   Illumination of an off-street loading area, if any, shall be by
constant light and shall be so arranged as to direct the light away from
properties within an R district which do not contain uses for which the loading
area is being provided. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-6-5: SPECIAL STUDIES:
   A.   Generally. This Section sets out methodology to determine, modify, or
reduce the number of off-street parking spaces as set out in Section
11-6-3, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
   B.   Special Studies. Some of the uses listed in the tables set out in
Section
11-6-3, Off-Street Parking and Loading, have widely varying parking demand
characteristics or can vary widely in their parking needs based on the specific
site improvements proposed. Accordingly, the parking requirements for such uses
are listed in the tables as “Special Study.” Required parking for these uses
shall be established by special study according to the standards of this
Section. A special study shall also be required for any land use not listed in
Section
11-6-3, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
      1.   Requirements:
         a.   The special study shall be conducted by a qualified
transportation planner or traffic engineer at the applicant’s expense; and
         b.   The special study, when required, shall provide:
            (1)   A peak parking analysis of comparable uses or other
facilities operated by the applicant where empirical evidence of parking demand
may be scientifically quantified; and
            (2)   Documentation regarding the comparability of the referenced
uses, including name, function, location, floor area, parking availability,
access to transportation network (including vehicular or other if applicable),
use restrictions, and other factors that could affect the parking demand.
      2.   Review and Consideration of Special Study. The City Planner shall
forward a copy of the study to the TAC, who will review it and provide comments
to the applicant, for any revisions, and to the Planning Commission and City
Council for review and approval. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-6-6: GENERAL ACCESS AND CIRCULATION:
   A.   Generally. For the purposes of this Section:
      1.   Arterial and collector streets refer to those existing and proposed
streets identified on the Major Street and Highway Plan.
      2.   Access points include means of site ingress and egress located along
highways, public and private streets, alleys, driveways, and marginal access
streets.
   B.   Access and Circulation on Nonresidential and Mixed-Use Lots.
      1.   Parcels platted after the adoption of this Title that front on
arterial and collector streets shall provide cross-access to abutting parcels
unless cross-access is unfeasible.
      2.   Where connections to abutting parcels are possible, but not
currently provided:
         a.   The parcel proposed for development shall include a stub-out at a
location that allows for a reasonable connection to the abutting parcel (i.e.,
one that allows for reasonable development of both parcels) in the future; and
         b.   The applicant shall record a cross-access easement in a form
acceptable to the City to allow for future connection of the stub-out to a
comparable facility on the abutting parcel and ensure that shared access
maintenance responsibilities are included. In general, the City may require
cross-access easements to include one or more of the following:
            (1)   Sufficient width to accommodate a two-way access between
properties;
            (2)   Stub-outs and other design features to allow abutting
properties to be tied in to provide future cross access; or
            (3)   Linkage to other cross-access drives in the area.
      3.   All entrances and exits to a parking area and interior circulation
patterns shall be clearly delineated by appropriate signage and/or pavement
markings. If signs are used as part of this delineation, the signs shall be in
accordance with Chapter 7, Signs. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
LANDSCAPING, SCREENING, AND BUFFERYARDS
11-6-7: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Subchapter is to:
      1.   Promote the beautification and character of the City and enhance the
quality of life;
      2.   Promote the reasonable preservation and replenishment of existing
trees and vegetation, especially to create greenbelts along transportation
corridors, link linear parks or trails between neighborhoods and regional trail
networks and waterways, and provide natural buffers between different uses;
      3.   Maintain ecological balance by contributing to air purification,
oxygen regeneration, groundwater recharge, and stormwater runoff quality and
reduced quantity;
      4.   Maintain a meaningful urban forest in a manner that does not
discourage urban development; and
      5.   Ensure that buffers are provided between different land use types,
or intensities of use, to maintain property values, livability, and
compatibility between uses.
   B.   Applicability and Exemptions. The landscape requirements of this
Subchapter shall be applicable to all land for which a building permit is
sought, except that the requirements shall not be applicable to the following:
      1.   Individual single-family or duplex lots where only one such
structure is to be constructed on the lot.
      2.   Restoration of buildings constructed prior to the effective date
hereof which are damaged by fire, flood or other catastrophe.
      3.   Interior remodeling.
      4.   Construction of a structure, other than a building, which does not
increase the developed area of a lot more than 30 square feet.
      5.   The developed area of a lot if all proposed new buildings, or
additions to buildings, contain less floor area than the floor area of existing
buildings which remain on the lot after completion of the new construction.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-6-8: CREDIT FOR EXISTING TREES:
   A.   Incentive Credits. To encourage preservation of existing mature trees
and/or the planting of larger trees, each square foot of landscaped area which
is permeable and within the drip line of a tree of at least six inches in
caliper shall constitute one and one-half (1.5) square feet of landscaped area
for the purpose of meeting the 15 percent street yard landscaping requirement.
The following conditions shall apply:
      1.   Overlapping drip line areas shall be counted only once;
      2.   At least one-half of the drip line shall be permeable;
      3.   The original grade of the drip line shall not be changed; and
      4.   The one and one-half (1.5) square foot credit shall not constitute
more than 25 percent of the landscape requirement. The 25 percent credit
limitation may be increased by the Planning Commission if the Commission
determines such additional credit is warranted in that the trees proposed to be
preserved are of such substantial size or quantity, provide superior buffering,
and/or create corridor character, and the applicant is taking considerable
measures to ensure the life of the trees, such as prohibiting impermeable
materials on more than 50 percent of the tree drip line.
   B.   Parking Credits. For all nonresidential development on lots of record
prior to the effective date hereof which are one acre in area, or less, the
required number of off-street parking spaces shall be reduced by one space for
each 300 square feet of street yard required to be landscaped by this
Subchapter. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-6-9: DEVELOPMENT LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Frontage and Perimeter.
      1.   Not less than 15 percent of the street yard shall be established and
maintained as a landscaped area.
      2.   Within the lot, a landscaped area shall be established and
maintained which is not less than seven and one-half (7.5) feet in width and
which extends along the entirety of the abutting street right-of-way, except at
vehicular access points. For lots abutting arterial streets, a landscaped area
shall be established which is not less than 10 feet in width and which extends
along the entirety of the abutting arterial right-of-way.
      3.   Within a lot used for office, commercial, industrial or multi-family
residential purposes, off-street parking shall be separated from an abutting
residential district or residential development area by a landscaped area not
less than 10 feet in width. The tree planting requirements in this landscaped
area shall be equal to those for a typical street yard as set out in Subsection
C of this Section.
      4.   Required setbacks shall be landscaped in accordance with the street
yard standards.
      5.   In computing the landscaped area required in Subsection A.1, above,
the landscaped areas required by Subsections A.2 and A.3, above, if located
within the street yard, shall be included within the computation.
      6.   New single-family and duplex residential development abutting
arterial and collector streets shall provide a landscaped buffer of not less
than 10 feet in width along the entirety of the arterial and collector street
frontage. Setbacks from the arterial and collector streets which are larger
than 10 feet shall be provided at each side of the project entry drive at its
intersection with an arterial or a collector street.
      7.   For lots abutting U.S. Highway 75 and 151st Street (State Highway
67), a landscaped area shall be established and maintained which is not less
than 15 feet in width and which extends along the entirety of the abutting
arterial, except at vehicular access points.
   B.   Parking Areas. Within surface off-street parking areas, landscaped
areas shall be established and maintained as follows:
      1.   For lots two and one-half (2.5) acres or less in size, no parking
space shall be located more than 50 feet from a landscaped area containing at
least 30 square feet, with a minimum width or diameter of five feet. A
landscaped area, by definition, must contain at least one tree.
      2.   For lots greater than two and one-half (2.5) acres in size, no
parking space shall be located more than 75 feet from a landscaped area
containing at least 100 square feet, with a minimum width or diameter of seven
feet. A landscaped area, by definition, must contain at least one tree, with
all areas of 200 square feet or more containing at least two trees.
   C.   Trees.
      1.   Within the street yard, trees shall be preserved, planted,
maintained or replaced as follows:
         a.   One tree for each 1,000 square feet, or fraction thereof, of
street yard.
         b.   Each existing tree which is in the required street yard and which
is at least six inches in caliper and which is removed by the development of
the parking area shall be replaced at a two-to-one (2:1) ratio with trees sized
as designated in Subsection C.7, below, and located within the required street
yard. These two replacement trees shall be counted as one tree for purposes of
compliance with street yard tree planting requirements.
      2.   For surface parking areas located outside the street yard, one tree
for each 10 parking spaces, with at least one tree in each required landscaped
area to be preserved or planted and maintained or replaced.
      3.   An existing or planted tree which is at least six inches in caliper
shall be considered as two trees for the purpose of determining compliance with
the requirements of this Subsection, provided that there is no alteration of
the grade under existing tree drip lines.
      4.   For surface parking areas located on South Broadway Street which are
designed for 10 or more spaces and which are located within 25 feet of a public
street right-of-way, trees shall be planted as follows:
         a.   One tree for each 35 linear feet of parking area which is located
along and parallel to the street boundary.
         b.   Required trees shall be located within 10 feet of the public
street right-of-way.
      5.   For surface parking areas designed for 10 or more spaces and located
within 25 feet of U.S. Highway 75 or 151st Street (State Highway 67) rights-of-
way, trees shall be planted, preserved and/or replaced as follows:
         a.   One tree for each 50 linear feet of parking area which is located
along and parallel to the street boundary and which is within 25 feet of the
public street right-of-way.
         b.   Each existing tree which is located in the required street yard,
and is removed by the development of the parking area and which is at least six
inches in caliper shall be replaced at a three-to-one (3:1) ratio with trees
sized as designated in Subsection C.7, below, and located within the required
street yard. These three trees shall count as one tree for the purposes of
compliance with street yard planting requirements.
      6.   Planted trees shall be planted in a pervious area not less than
three feet in diameter.
      7.   Minimum tree sizes at the time of planting shall be as follows:
         a.   Ornamental trees shall not be less than six feet in height and
one inch in caliper.
         b.   Conifers/evergreen trees, such as pine, spruce or cedar, shall
not be less than five feet in height.
         c.   Canopy trees shall not be less than eight feet in height and two
inches in caliper.
      8.   Landscaped buffers separating new single-family or duplex
residential development from arterial and collector streets shall be treated as
follows:
         a.   A minimum of one tree shall be planted for each 50 feet of linear
frontage.
         b.   Tree sizes shall conform to the standards in Subsection C.7,
above.
         c.   Each existing tree removed by the developer during construction
which is larger than six inches in caliper when measured at three feet above
the ground shall be replaced at a two-to-one (2:1) ratio with trees sized as
designated in Subsection C.7, above.
The new trees shall be located within the 10-foot landscaped area adjacent to
the arterial street or the expanded entry area setbacks. These two replacement
trees count as one tree toward the satisfaction of the one per 50 linear foot
requirement of Subsection C.8.a., above. To mitigate tree loss during
construction, the developer may also propose to preserve existing trees less
than six inches in caliper at other locations on the site.
         d.   Preservation or planting of trees within the required landscaped
areas which are larger than six inches in caliper shall be considered as two
trees for the purpose of determining compliance with the requirements of either
Subsection C.8.a. or C.8.c., above, provided that there is no alteration of the
soil under existing tree drip lines.
   D.   Miscellaneous Requirements.
      1.   Artificial vegetation of any type shall not satisfy the requirements
of this Subchapter.
      2.   Required landscaping shall be irrigated by an underground sprinkler
system, a drip system or hose bibs located within 100 feet of all landscaped
areas.
      3.   All landscaped areas which are adjacent to pavements shall be
protected with curbs or equivalent barriers.
      4.   Landscaping shall not obstruct traffic visibility at street
intersections or at access points to the street.
      5.   Required landscaping shall be maintained in a live and healthy
condition and shall be replaced as necessary to comply herewith.
      6.   Required landscaped areas shall be maintained free of debris and
litter.
      7.   Required landscaping shall be installed in accordance with an
approved landscape plan as out in Section
11-6-11. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-6-10: SCREENING AND BUFFERYARDS:
   A.   Purpose. For the purpose of maintaining a compatible relationship
between different land uses, screening and buffering requirements are hereby
established as set out below.
   B.   General Specifications of Walls and Fences. When the provisions of this
Title require the construction of a screening wall or fence as a development
standard or as a requirement of a specific or limited use, the screening wall
or fence shall:
      1.   Be constructed, designed, and arranged to provide a visual and
opaque separation between uses.
      2.   Generally not be more than six feet in height, except where an eight
foot height is required.
         a.   The City Planner has the discretion to allow, or require, a
height up to eight feet to improve use compatibility.
         b.   Fence height shall be measured based on the prevailing natural
grade, so fence height may increase when a site has uneven or undulating slope.
         c.   Ornamental columns, pilasters, column caps, trellises or similar
features that enhance the character of a wall or fence are not subject to the
height limitation.
      3.   Be constructed with all braces and supports on the interior side of
a fence, except when both sides are of the same design and appearance.
      4.   Be constructed using a common material, color, and style on the
perimeter of all residential developments, and along arterial and collector
streets, as designated on the Major Street and Highway Plan, in all new
developments.
      5.   Be installed prior to the occupancy of any building and prior to the
initiation of the use.
      6.   Utilize materials that are compatible with the surrounding area and
properties.
      7.   Be maintained by the owner of the lot containing the use required to
install screening. Failure to maintain required screening shall constitute an
offense hereunder.
   C.   Bufferyards Generally. The bufferyards required by this Subchapter are
based on the amount of screening they provide and are classified from the least
screening (Type A) to the most screening (Type D), depending on the types and
intensities of adjacent uses.
   D.   Bufferyard Types.
      1.   There are four types of bufferyards, each of which varies in the
width of the bufferyard and the numbers and types of plants that are required
per 100 linear feet, or portion thereof, and whether a wall or fence is also
required.
      2.   The minimum planting requirements for each type and composition of
bufferyard are set out in
Table 11-6-11.1, Bufferyard Classifications, except where another requirement
of Title 11 or a condition of the City Council, the Commission, or Board
requires a greater bufferyard.
   E.   Composition of Bufferyards. Bufferyards are classified as:
      1.   Structural Bufferyards. Structural bufferyards include fences, walls
or buildings to achieve the required level of screening.
      2.   Natural Bufferyards. Natural bufferyards include earthen berms, a
geologic grade change or a higher density, or opacity, of plant materials to
achieve the required level of screening.
Table 11-6-11.1 Bufferyard Classifications
 
              Required Plantings per 100 Linear Feet
              (Structural / Natural)                         Height of Berm,
Type   Width              Evergreen                          Wall or
              Large Trees Trees     Small Trees Shrubs       Fence1,2

Type A 5 ft.  ½          ½        1/3         10/15        -
Type B 10 t.  2/3         2/3       2/6         20/30        -
Type C 25 ft. 3/6         3/6       3/9         30/40        6 ft.
Type D 35 ft. 4/8         4/8       4/12        40/55        8 ft.
 
NOTES:
1.   An earthen berm, wall, or fence is not required for a natural bufferyard.
2.   Per Chapter 3, Subchapter 3, Specific and Limited Uses, additional wall
height may be required for some uses or as a condition of SUP approval.
   F.   Bufferyard Locations. Bufferyards are required between different
adjacent zoning districts and between different levels of density (residential)
and intensity (nonresidential and mixed use).
Table 11-6-11.1, Bufferyard Classifications, and
Table 11-6-11.2, District Bufferyard Standards, highlight how the bufferyard
standards and adjacent land use are related and the degree of buffering
required to improve compatibility between different land uses.
   G.   Composition of Bufferyards in Certain Locations.
      1.   Between Districts. Structural bufferyards are the preferred
composition along a district boundary that is not a street, or where there is a
specific privacy or security need that requires a wall or fence.
      2.   Between Mixed Housing Types and Uses. Structural or natural
bufferyards may be used between mixed housing types and mixed uses within a
development, depending on the use types and intensities and the desired degree
of compatibility, privacy, and/or security.
      3.   Adjacent to Land Zoned Agriculture (AG), Residential Estate (RE), or
Residential Single- Family Low Density (R-1). Natural bufferyards are the
preferred composition in these locations to reinforce the rural or low density
residential character of the adjacent district.
      4.   Along Resource Features and Recreation Uses. Natural bufferyards are
required adjacent to recreation uses and along natural areas and resources to
act as a riparian buffer and to protect and enhance water quality and
stormwater management.
   H.   Exemptions. A parcel proposed for development, redevelopment, or
substantial improvement shall be exempt from the requirement to provide a
bufferyard under the following conditions:
      1.   When there is an elevation difference between two adjacent
properties that is six feet or greater.
      2.   When a property is separated from the adjacent property by a natural
or man-made area that meets or exceeds the level of screening required.
   I.   Credits for Existing Buffer Treatments.
      1.   Generally. Existing landscape, trees, fences, and retaining walls
that meet, in part but not in whole, the bufferyard requirements set out
herein, may be counted toward the bufferyard requirements, provided that:
         a.   The trees and landscaping are in good health.
         b.   The fences or walls are structurally sound and in good repair.
      2.   Existing Landscaping Credit. Credit shall be given for existing
trees that are located within bufferyards as set out in Section
11-6-8, Credit for Existing Trees.
      3.   Existing Fences and Walls. If a fence or wall is the preferred or
required bufferyard composition and there is already a fence or retaining wall
on the property line, then the City Planner may waive the fence or wall
requirement if:
         a.   The City Planner verifies and documents that an existing fence or
wall is structurally sound and in good repair; and
         b.   The height and level of existing screening meets the intent of
this Subsection.
   J.   Bufferyard Standards.
      1.   Generally.
Table 11-6-11.2, District Bufferyard Standards, sets out the classifications of
bufferyards required between zoning districts not separated by a public street
right- of-way.
      2.   Interpretation of the Table.
         a.   The table is a matrix where all zoning districts are categorized
into groups of similar use intensity.
         b.   The rows indicate the zoning of the parcel proposed for
development and the columns indicate the zoning of the adjacent property or
properties.
         c.   Where “-” is found there is no bufferyard required.
Table 11-6-11.2
District Bufferyard Standards
 
Zoning of Parcel Proposed for Zoning of Adjoining Property
Development                   AG, RE, RS RD, RMH, RM-1 RM-2, OL, OM CS, CG IL
AG, RE, RS                    -          A             B            C      D
RD, RMH, RM-1                 B          A             -            C      D
RM-2, OL, OM                  C          B             A            A      C
CS, CG                        C          C             B            -      -
IL                            D          C             C            B      -
 
      3.   Relationship to Other Bufferyard Requirements.
         a.   Some limited uses or specific uses have different requirements
for bufferyards, as specified in Chapter 3, Subchapter 3, Specific and Limited
Uses.
         b.   If bufferyards are required by another Section of this Title
along property lines that are also zoning district boundaries, then the greater
bufferyard requirement shall apply.
      4.   Bufferyard Fencing. Where a fence is used to provide a buffer, the
following requirements shall apply:
         a.   The finished side of all fences shall face outward toward any
adjacent public rights- of-way or the property that is being buffered, with all
braces and supports on the interior side of the fence.
         b.   All support posts and stringers shall face inward toward the
property upon which the fence is located or the development that it screens.
   K.   Modification of Requirements. The Board of Adjustment may:
      1.   Consider modifications to or a waiver of the screening or bufferyard
requirements when an existing physical feature provides the intended visual or
physical separation of uses.
      2.   Modify the screening or bufferyard requirements where an alternative
screening or buffering solution will provide the intended visual or physical
separation of uses. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-6-11: LANDSCAPE PLAN AND LANDSCAPE INSTALLATION:
   A.   Landscape Plan Required. An application for a building permit for uses
requiring landscaping shall provide the information set out in Appendix A,
Section
A.1 of this Title.
   B.   Installation Schedule. The installation schedule of required
landscaping and appurtenances shall specify installation of all improvements
prior to the hookup of utilities. The Planning Commission may, upon
recommendation of the City Planner, grant approval for hookup prior to the
completion of tree installation, based upon a specific tree planting schedule,
not to exceed 120 days from the date of Planning Commission approval.
   C.   Certification of Installation.
      1.   Prior to utility hookup, written certification shall be submitted to
the City by an architect, landscape architect or engineer licensed in the State
of Oklahoma that the installation of the landscaping and appurtenances has been
accomplished in accordance with the approved landscaping plan.
      2.   If the Planning Commission grants preliminary approval for the
hookup of utilities prior to the completion of tree planting, an architect,
landscape architect or engineer licensed in the State of Oklahoma, shall
provide written certification that all trees have been installed in accordance
with the approved landscaping plan. Such certification shall be provided prior
to or within the time frame approved in the specific tree planting schedule,
and shall not exceed 120 days from utility hookup. If certification is not
received within this time frame, it will be considered a violation of this
Title, and the developer may be subject to daily fines until certification has
been received.
   D.   Administrative Review.
      1.   After receipt of the landscaping plan, the City Planner shall:
         a.   Approve the landscaping plan as complying with the requirements
of this Subchapter;
         b.   Conditionally approve the plan; or
         c.   Reject the plan if it fails to comply with the requirements of
this Subchapter.
      2.   The City Planner may, at his or her discretion, refer the plan to
the Planning Commission for review and approval. The Commission decision shall
be final.
   E.   Alternative Compliance. If the City Planner rejects the landscape plan,
the applicant may file an application requesting Planning Commission review of
the plan to determine if the plan implements the intent of this Subchapter even
if not meeting the technical requirements of this Subchapter. The Commission
decision shall be final. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-6-12: LANDSCAPING, BUFFERYARD, AND SCREENING MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Maintenance.
      1.   All landscaping, bufferyard and screening elements shall be
maintained in good condition.
      2.   Ongoing maintenance, including the replacement of dead or unhealthy
plantings, and irrigation, is required for areas that are landscaped pursuant
to an approved landscaping plan.
      3.   Structural improvements, such as fences and walls, shall be
maintained in good order and repaired or replaced when damaged to maintain the
purpose of the structure.
   B.   Periodic Inspections. The City may inspect each site periodically after
approval of a subdivision plat or issuance of the certificate of occupancy to
ensure compliance with this Subchapter. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 7
SIGNS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Purpose And Authority
11-7-2: Findings And Objectives
11-7-3: Applicability And Definitions
11-7-4: Permits Required
11-7-5: Development Standards
11-7-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to set out reasonable
regulations for the design, location, installation, operation, repair, and
maintenance of signs in a manner that advances the City’s important,
substantial, and compelling interests as set out in Section
11-7-2, Findings and Objectives, while simultaneously safeguarding the
constitutionally protected right of free expression.
   B.   Authority. The City has the authority to regulate signs under the
United States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Oklahoma, and the
Glenpool City Charter. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-7-2: FINDINGS AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Findings. The City Council finds as follows:
      1.   This Chapter advances important, substantial, and compelling
governmental interests.
      2.   The regulations set out in this Chapter are unrelated to the
suppression of constitutionally-protected free expression and do not involve
the content of protected messages which may be displayed on signs, nor do they
involve the viewpoint of individual speakers.
      3.   The incidental restriction on the freedom of speech that may result
from the regulation of signs hereunder is no greater than is essential to the
furtherance of the important, substantial, and compelling interests that are
advanced by this Chapter.
      4.   The City has a substantial and compelling interest in preventing
traffic accidents.
      5.   The City has an important and substantial interest in preventing
sign clutter that:
         a.   Creates visual distraction and obstructs views, potentially
creating a public safety hazard for motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians.
         b.   Degrades the aesthetic character of the City, making the City a
less attractive place for residents, visitors, commerce, and private
investment.
         c.   Dilutes or obscures messages displayed along the City’s streets
through the proliferation of distracting signs competing for attention.
      6.   Sign clutter can be reduced and prevented by reasonable sign
regulations that:
         a.   Do not relate to the content of the regulated signs.
         b.   Balance the legitimate needs of individuals, entities, and
organizations to convey messages with the legitimate objectives of the City to
promote public safety; sustain, protect, and enhance community character; and
support and enhance private property values.
      7.   Signs may be degraded, damaged, moved, or destroyed by wind, rain,
snow, ice, and sun, and after such degradation, damage, movement, or
destruction, may harm the safety and aesthetics of the City’s streets and other
public areas if they are not removed.
      8.   The City has a compelling interest in protecting minors from speech
that is harmful to them as provided by state and federal law, and such speech
may be prohibited in places accessible to minors.
      9.   Certain types of speech are not constitutionally protected due to
the harm that they cause to individuals or the community.
   B.   Objectives. It is the intent of the City Council to provide a
reasonable balance between the right of an individual to communicate through
the use of signs and the right of the public to be protected against the visual
discord resulting from the unrestricted proliferation of signs. The objective
of the regulations in this Chapter is to provide a balanced and fair legal
framework for design, construction, and placement of signs that:
      1.   Promotes the safety of persons and property by ensuring that signs
do not create a hazard by:
         a.   Collapsing, catching fire, or being windblown in natural events,
or otherwise decaying.
         b.   Confusing or distracting motorists.
         c.   Impairing drivers’ ability to see pedestrians, obstacles, or
other vehicles, or to read traffic signs.
      2.   Promotes the efficient communication of messages, and ensures that
persons exposed to signs:
         a.   Are not overwhelmed by the number of messages presented.
         b.   Are able to exercise freedom of choice to observe or ignore said
messages according to the observer’s purpose.
      3.   Protects the public welfare and enhances community appearance and
economic value by reducing and preventing sign clutter.
      4.   Ensures that signs are compatible with their surroundings, and
prevents the construction of signs that are a nuisance to occupants of adjacent
and contiguous property or to the use of public rights-of-way due to
brightness, glare, reflectivity, bulk, or height.
      5.   Provides timely, fair, and consistent permitting and enforcement.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-7-3: APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   General. Regulations governing the use, size, type, design, and
location of signs and outdoor advertising throughout the City are described in
this Chapter.
   B.   Applicability. The regulations in this Chapter apply to business signs,
neighborhood identification signs, public and institutional signs, permanent
and temporary signs, outdoor advertising signs (billboards), and all other sign
types, as are more particularly defined and described herein.
   C.   Sign Definitions. The following definitions strictly apply to the
administration of the regulations contained in this Chapter:
                                   A use or structure on the same lot with, and
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE:        of a nature customarily associated with, and
                                   incidental and subordinate to, the principal
                                   use or structure.
                                   The international system unit of luminous
                                   intensity, that is, power emitted by a light
                                   source, in a particular direction, weighted
                                   by the luminosity function that is a
                                   standardized model of the sensitivity of the
CANDELA:                           human eye to different wavelengths. A
                                   standard candle emits light with a luminous
                                   intensity of one candela. If emission in any
                                   direction is blocked by an opaque barrier,
                                   the emission would still be approximately
                                   one candela in the directions that are not
                                   obscured.
                                   The duration or interval of time during
                                   which each individual advertisement or
DWELL TIME:                        message is displayed on any sign that is
                                   capable of sequentially displaying more than
                                   one advertisement or message on its display
                                   surface.
                                   A unit of measure of the intensity of light
                                   falling on a surface, equal to one lumen per
FOOT-CANDLE:                       square foot and originally defined with
                                   reference to a standardized candle burning
                                   at one foot from a given surface.
                                   An area where motor vehicle traffic is
                                   regulated by an official traffic control
                                   signal or light that is encompassed within
                                   the prolongation or connection of the
                                   lateral curb lines or, if none, then the
INTERSECTION, SIGNALIZED:          lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
                                   two streets that join one another at, or
                                   approximately at, right angles, or the area
                                   within which vehicles travel upon different
                                   streets joining at any other angle which may
                                   conflict, whether or not one such street or
                                   roadway crosses the other.
LED:                               A semiconducting light emitting diode (LED)
                                   that emits light when powered.
                                   The international system unit of luminous
                                   flux, a measure of the power of light
LUMEN:                             perceived by the human eye. A light source
                                   that uniformly radiates one candela in all
                                   directions radiates a total of 4tt lumens.
                                   A unit of illuminative brightness equal to
NIT/CANDELAS PER SQUARE METER:     one candela per square meter, measured
                                   perpendicular to the rays of the source.
                                   Any fabricated display structure, including
                                   its support, consisting of any letter,
                                   figure, character, mark, poster pointer,
                                   marquee advertising, design, picture,
                                   stripe, trademark, reading matter, or
                                   illuminating device constructed, attached,
                                   erected, fastened or manufactured in any
                                   manner whatsoever so that the same shall be
SIGN:                              used for the attraction of the public to any
                                   business, commodity, service, industry,
                                   product, recreational or cultural activity,
                                   profession, performance or similar related
                                   concept or endeavor, whether for profit or
                                   not for profit, that is sold, offered or
                                   conducted for public use or consumption, and
                                   displayed in any manner for recognized
                                   advertising or publicity purposes.
                                   A flexible sign, consisting of fabric,
                                   plastic, paper or other light pliable
                                   material on which copy or graphics may be
SIGN, BANNER:                      displayed or overlaid, provided that a
                                   banner must be a commercially made, and not
                                   a homemade, sign. A banner is a temporary
                                   sign.
                                   A sign that is imprinted on, or affixed to,
                                   a bench and having measurements that do not
                                   exceed the boundaries of such bench and
SIGN, BENCH:                       conforming to such other terms and
                                   conditions as are set out in an agreement
                                   between the business or entity seeking to
                                   install such signs and the City.
SIGN, BULLETIN BOARD:              A changeable message board used to announce
                                   on-site activities.
                                   A sign that is designed to direct public
                                   attention to a business, commodity, service,
                                   recreational activity, or performance, or
SIGN, BUSINESS:                    similar related concepts of activities
                                   conducted for public consumption, whether or
                                   not for profit, sold, offered or conducted
                                   on the premises.
                                   A sign wholly supported by a canopy
                                   projecting from a building or an extended
SIGN, CANOPY:                      roof or pitched roof and which does not
                                   extend above the mean height level of the
                                   roof of the building.
                                   A temporary sign, erected during the period
SIGN, CONSTRUCTION:                of construction, advertising the
                                   construction of improvements on the
                                   premises.
                                   A sign that displays an advertisement or
                                   message which is generated electronically
                                   and commonly utilizes computerized or
SIGN, DIGITAL/LIGHTED:             electronic digital technology, including,
                                   but not limited to, digital display boards,
                                   electronic variable message signs,
                                   electronic billboards, and LED signs.
SIGN, DIGITAL OUTDOOR ADVERTISING: An outdoor advertising sign that is also a
                                   digital sign.
                                   Any sign that incorporates in any manner
                                   apparent movement achieved by electrical
SIGN, FLASHING:                    pulsation, the use of intermittent lighting
                                   or by other means such as sequential light
                                   phasing.
                                   A sign that is attached to or is a part of a
SIGN, GROUND:                      self-supporting structure, other than a
                                   building or portion of a building.
                                   A sign that states only the name of a
SIGN, IDENTIFICATION:              residential development, mobile home park,
                                   multi-family development or a nonresidential
                                   development.
                                   Any sign that is designed to give forth any
SIGN, ILLUMINATED:                 artificial light or to reflect such light
                                   deriving from another source.
                                   A sign displaying information, or
                                   advertising or otherwise directing public
                                   attention to a business, commodity, service,
                                   industry, product, recreational or cultural
                                   activity, profession, performance or similar
                                   related concept or endeavor conducted for
                                   public use or consumption, whether for
                                   profit or not for profit, that is not
                                   located on, or sold, offered or conducted
                                   on, the premises where the sign is erected
SIGN, OFF-SITE:                    and/or displayed. Premises on which an off-
                                   site sign may be permitted include public
                                   rights-of-way and private property that is
                                   not owned, or otherwise occupied or
                                   currently utilized, by the person, business
                                   entity or profession conducting such
                                   business, commodity, service, industry,
                                   product, recreational or cultural activity,
                                   profession, performance or similar related
                                   concept or endeavor, provided that consent
                                   of the City and the private property owner,
                                   respectively, is obtained.
                                   A sign displaying information, or
                                   advertising or otherwise directing public
                                   attention to a business, commodity, service,
                                   industry, product, recreational or cultural
                                   activity, profession, performance or similar
                                   related concept or endeavor conducted for
                                   public use or consumption, whether for
                                   profit or not for profit, that is located
                                   on, or sold, offered or conducted on the
SIGN, ON-SITE:                     premises where the sign is erected and/or
                                   displayed and pertaining only to such
                                   business, commodity, service, industry,
                                   product, recreational or cultural activity,
                                   profession, performance or similar related
                                   concept or endeavor located on, or sold,
                                   offered or conducted on such premises,
                                   whether the sign is erected and/or displayed
                                   by the owner, a tenant, agent, invitee or
                                   permittee of the owner of such premises.
                                   A sign that directs attention to a business,
                                   commodity, service, industry, product,
                                   recreational or cultural activity,
                                   profession, performance, or similar related
SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING:         concept or endeavor conducted for public use
                                   or consumption, whether for profit or not
                                   for profit, that is sold, offered or
                                   conducted either on or off the premises
                                   where the sign is erected or displayed.
                                   A freestanding sign that is supported by one
                                   or more column(s) or other structural member
                                   (s) that is/are permanently attached to the
SIGN, POLE:                        ground or a ground mounted structure and
                                   provides a minimum of eight feet of visible,
                                   vertical clearance, between any part of the
                                   sign and finished grade.
SIGN, PORTABLE:                    A sign that is not permanently affixed to
                                   the ground or a building.
                                   A sign that is affixed to a building or wall
                                   in such a manner that its leading edge
SIGN, PROJECTING:                  extends horizontally more than 12 inches
                                   beyond the surface of such building or wall
                                   supporting the sign and is perpendicular to
                                   such building or wall.
                                   A temporary on-site or off-site outdoor
                                   advertising sign that may be a banner sign
                                   or a feather sign, or other sign approved in
                                   accordance with this Chapter, provided that
                                   no promotional sign may be a snipe sign, and
SIGN, PROMOTIONAL:                 may be a ground sign or may be attached to a
                                   permanent structure, that is in all respects
                                   regulated by this Chapter, notwithstanding
                                   any provisions, limitations, conditions or
                                   prohibitions with respect to signage
                                   otherwise applicable in any district in the
                                   City, or set forth in this Chapter.
                                   A temporary sign advertising the sale,
SIGN, REAL ESTATE:                 rental or lease of the premises or related
                                   property.
                                   Any sign that is erected and constructed on
                                   and over the roof, extended roof, pitched
                                   roof or canopy of a building, supported by
                                   the roof structure, and extends vertically
                                   above any portion of the roof. Roof signs
SIGN, ROOF:                        shall not include signs located on a mansard
                                   roof if the sign is mounted vertically and
                                   integrated with the roof. For the purpose of
                                   this Chapter, architecturally integrated
                                   mansard signs and other architecturally
                                   integrated signs located below the principal
                                   roofline shall be classified as wall signs.
                                   A temporary sign that is made of any
                                   material, attached to a utility pole, tree,
SIGN, SNIPE:                       fencepost, stake, stick, mailbox or any
                                   similar object, whether in a public right-
                                   of-way, or not.
                                   Any sign that is intended to be used,
                                   affixed to a structure or to a building or
                                   building surface or installed in the ground
                                   for only a limited and designated maximum
                                   period of time, including signs that are
SIGN, TEMPORARY:                   designed to be mobile and moved from one
                                   location to another. Portable signs are
                                   temporary signs. Promotional signs are
                                   temporary signs. The permissible time for
                                   display of temporary signs will be limited
                                   by the intended use and as expressly set
                                   forth in this Chapter.
                                   A sign that is affixed to a building wall
SIGN, WALL:                        and does not project horizontally more than
                                   12 inches from the wall nor extend above the
                                   height of the wall.
                                   Any sign that is painted, attached, glued,
                                   otherwise affixed to or situated in the
SIGN, WINDOW:                      proximity of a window for the purpose of
                                   being visible from the exterior of the
                                   building.
                                   An advertisement or message that, when
STATIC MESSAGE:                    displayed, contains no motion, flashing,
                                   changeable copy, running lights, variations
                                   in brightness or animation.
                                   The consecutive display of advertisements or
STORYBOARDING:                     messages on a sign used to provide a
                                   continuing or evolving message, theme or
                                   story.
                                   The duration or interval of time between
                                   which each individual advertisement or
TRANSITION TIME:                   message is displayed on any sign which is
                                   capable of sequentially displaying more than
                                   one advertisement or message on its display
                                   surface. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
 
11-7-4: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Permits.
      1.   Any new sign or the installation of a new sign face on, or the
rebuilding, enlarging, extending or relocation of an existing sign, requires a
sign permit from the City.
      2.   In addition, the installation of a new sign face on, or the
rebuilding, enlarging, extending or relocation of, an existing sign of which
any portion is located in a public right-of-way shall require a sign permit and
a memorandum or other written evidence of agreement with the City for the
purpose of documenting, specifying and limiting permitted changes.
   B.   Permit Application. The permitted use of a sign by a business, on its
own premises, shall not be altered to any other use without first applying for
and receiving a permit for such sign use. Applications for sign permits must
include:
      1.   Proof of ownership or written permission of the owner of the lot or
tract upon which the proposed sign will be constructed.
      2.   A site plan drawn to scale of the property showing dimensions
illustrating the distance of the proposed sign location from property lines,
structures, easements, and driveways. If the sign is to be located on the face
of a building, the proposed sign shall be drawn to scale on the building.
      3.   The proposed dimensions (display area and height) of the sign.
      4.   If the sign is freestanding, either on-premises or off-premises, the
site plan must show all existing signs within 1,200 feet (billboard only).
      5.   The plans are to be submitted in paper form as well as electronic
format. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-7-5: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Location Requirements.
      1.   Except as otherwise expressly set forth in Subsections J.5, K and L
of this Section, pertaining, respectively, to the installation of bench signs,
temporary election/political campaign signs and temporary promotional signs,
and except for authorized traffic signals, hazard signs, or similar devices, no
privately owned sign or portion of a privately owned sign or any of its
supporting structure may be located on or within, extend into, encroach upon,
or overhang any public property or right-of-way or be located within the
existing or proposed right-of-way of any street or area designated in the Major
Street And Highway Plan as a future street.
      2.   No sign shall be located less than 35 feet from the intersection of
the pavement of two streets or from the intersection of street pavement and a
railroad track. The point of intersection shall be measured from the edge of
the paving of each street or railroad right-of-way and may be further
restricted by Subsection A.5 of this Section or elsewhere in this Title.
      3.   No sign shall be located in such a manner as to obstruct, obscure,
or in any manner interfere with any traffic signal light or public warning
sign.
      4.   Signs located in such a manner so as to prevent any motorist,
bicyclist, or pedestrian from obtaining a clear view of approaching vehicles
for a distance of 500 feet along a public right-of-way are prohibited.
      5.   Except as otherwise expressly set forth in Subsection L of this
Section pertaining to temporary promotional signs, and subject to review and
approval by the City Planner, no business or outdoor advertising sign,
including wall signs, shall be located within 150 feet of a residential
district, if visible from such district. The 150 feet shall be measured in a
straight line from the nearest point on a sign structure to the nearest point
on the property of the residential district.
      6.   No business or outdoor advertising sign, including wall signs, using
LED or other digital lighted sign shall be located within 500 feet of a
residential district. The 500 feet shall be measured in a straight line from
the nearest point on a sign structure to the nearest point on the property of
the residential district.
      7.   Except as otherwise expressly set forth in Subsection L of this
Section, pertaining to temporary promotional signs, and subject to review and
approval by the City Planner, no business or outdoor advertising sign shall be
located within 150 feet of a public park. The 150 feet shall be measured in a
straight line from the nearest point on a sign structure to the nearest point
on the property of the park.
      8.   All lighted signs shall maintain constant light. No flashing or
intermittent type of lighted signs are allowed, provided, however, that
electronic and/or LED lighted signs may be permitted by the granting of a
Specific Use Permit, subject to the procedural and substantive requirements of
this Title for an SUP, as set out in Section
11-9-13, Specific Use Permit. The following considerations shall be used in
making a determination regarding the SUP application:
         a.   Brightness/light intensity, with the following standards to be
considered reasonable:
            (1)   Not exceeding an illumination of 70 foot-candles, measured at
a two foot distance.
            (2)   An illuminative brightness not exceeding 300 candelas per
square meter (NITs) at any time between one-half hour after sunset until one-
half hour before sunrise or 6,500 NITs between one-half hour before sunrise
until one-half hour after sunset.
            (3)   Notwithstanding the above, such signs should not display an
illuminative brightness of such intensity or brilliance that it impairs the
vision or endangers the safety and welfare of any pedestrian, cyclist, or
person operating a motor vehicle.
         b.   Flashing or intermittent lighting and a combination of colors
such as red and blue such as could be confused with emergency vehicles or
traffic control signals or cause a traffic safety hazard shall be prohibited.
         c.   Movement or flashing of light and/or images, or the speed of
animation, shall be maintained with the standards of this Chapter.
         d.   Such signs, that are flashing, intermittent or include the
movement or animation of lights and/or images, are required to be equipped
with:
            (1)   A default mechanism that will freeze the sign in one position
or static message if a malfunction occurs.
            (2)   A mechanism able to adjust the display’s illuminative
brightness automatically, according to ambient light conditions.
         e.   Such signs shall not be located within:
            (1)   50 feet of the driving surface of a signalized intersection;
            (2)   20 feet of the driving surface of a street;
            (3)   200 feet of a residential district, other than street,
highway or freeway right-of- way; or
            (4)   2,400 feet of another outdoor advertising sign facing the
same direction.
      9.   Except as otherwise expressly set forth in Subsection L of this
Section, pertaining to temporary promotional signs, and subject to review and
approval by the City Planner, any on-site ground sign shall maintain a minimum
separation of 50 feet from any other ground sign on the same frontage.
      10.   Off-premises billboard signs shall not be permitted except along
the frontage of U.S. Highway 75, State Highway 117, and State Highway 67.
      11.   Any off-premises billboard sign shall maintain a minimum separation
of 1,200 feet from any other off-premises billboard ground sign.
      12.   Except as otherwise expressly set forth in Subsection L of this
Section, pertaining to temporary promotional signs, and subject to review and
approval by the City Planner, any off-site ground sign shall maintain a
separation of 500 feet from any on-site ground sign on the same frontage,
provided that the on-site ground sign was constructed first. However, if the
off-site sign was constructed prior to the request for an on-site sign, the
separation between the existing off-site sign and the proposed on-site sign
must be a minimum of 50 feet.
   B.   General Use Conditions.
      1.   For the purpose of display surface area calculation of a ground
mounted sign, where a lot abuts more than one public street, that street
frontage which is the largest shall be used.
      2.   Only one side of a double faced sign shall be included in the
computation of display surface area.
      3.   Roof signs are prohibited in all zoning districts.
      4.   Balloons or other inflatable devices used for the purpose of
advertising or directing attention to any location to which such devices are
attached or to which public attention is directed are prohibited in all zoning
districts.
      5.   Vehicles or trailers, whether motorized or not, parked upon public
or private property within the City for the obvious purpose of advertising
shall be prohibited in all zoning districts; provided that a commercial vehicle
may be identified only by business name, type of business, business address,
business telephone number and contractor’s state/county/city license number,
when required, except for temporary use during a special City event.
      6.   The following signs shall not be included in the regulated
computation of display surface area:
         a.   Nameplates attached to the face of the wall and not exceeding two
square feet in surface area.
         b.   Temporary real estate and construction signs, subject to
temporary limitations defined in Subsection H of this Section.
         c.   Signs that are not visible from a public street.
         d.   Signs painted on glass surfaces of windows or doors and
pertaining to the business conducted therein when the display surface area of
the sign does not cover more than 25 percent of the window or door.
         e.   Tablets built into the wall of a building or other structure and
used for inscriptions or as memorial tablets or for similar purposes.
         f.   Signs of warning, directive, or instructional nature erected by a
public agency, franchised transportation or utility company, or governmental
agency.
         g.   Legal notices and street numbers.
         h.   Election and political campaign signs governed by Subsection K of
this Section.
         i.   Signs located within buildings, unless the sign is mounted in the
window or standing inside the building within one foot of a window, having a
display surface area covering no more than 25 percent of the window.
         j.   Signs not exceeding three square feet of display surface area of
a warning, directive or instructional nature, including entrance, exit, and
restroom signs.
         k.   Signs attached as labels of a commodity for sale, rent or lease.
      7.   Every ground sign must be constructed and braced to withstand a
horizontal wind pressure of not less than 20 pounds for every square foot of
surface exposed, and shall be supported and anchored in a manner approved by
the Building Official. The building code recognized by the City shall be the
engineering reference for computing supports and stress numbers of any sign
structure.
      8.   No exterior sign visible to the public in the City shall be vulgar,
obscene or otherwise offensive to prevailing community standards.
   C.   Prohibited Signs.
      1.   The following signs are expressly prohibited in all zoning districts
within the City:
         a.   Any sign constructed after the effective date hereof without a
sign permit approved by the City, except those signs expressly identified as
signs authorized without a sign permit.
         b.   Signs located in such a manner to obstruct or otherwise interfere
with an official traffic sign, signal or device, or obstruct or interfere with
a driver’s view of approaching, merging or intersecting traffic.
         c.   Signs which simulate or imitate the size, lettering,
illumination, or design of any traffic control device in such a manner as to
interfere with, mislead, or confuse the public.
         d.   Signs which blink, flash, or are animated by lighting in such a
way as to have the appearance of traffic safety signs and/or lights, or
municipal vehicle warnings from a distance.
         e.   Any sign attached to or placed on a vehicle or trailer parked on
public or private property in a position visible to traffic on a public road,
waterway, or parking area for a period longer than six days in a 60 day period,
except for signs meeting the following conditions:
            (1)   The primary purpose of such vehicle or trailer is not the
display of signs.
            (2)   The signs are magnetic, decals, or painted upon and are an
integral part of the vehicle or equipment as originally designed by the
manufacturer, and do not break the silhouette of the vehicle.
            (3)   The vehicle is in operating condition, currently registered
and licensed to operate on public streets when applicable, and actively used or
available for use in the daily function of the business to which signs relate.
         f.   Revolving signs.
         g.   Any sign attached to any fence, utility pole, light standard,
street sign pole, tree, utility box or any other public facility located
within, or outside of, the public right-of- way.
         h.   Any sign constructed that obstructs any fire escape or required
exit, window, or door opening intended as a means of ingress or egress, or any
sign located in such a manner as to interfere with any opening required for
ventilation, whether on public or private property.
         i.   Any sign constructed or displayed that is deemed to be hazardous,
a danger, a traffic hazard, causes a potential impediment to rescue personnel
in the event of an emergency, or which constitutes a public nuisance.
      2.   No sign shall be erected or constructed in any zoning district
within the City that states, “stop”, “go”, “slow”, “danger” or any other
similar term in a manner that could reasonably be confused with traffic signs.
Furthermore, no sign shall be erected or constructed in any zoning district
which would tend to be confused with or obstruct sight of traffic signs or
traffic signals by motorists or pedestrians, or which would otherwise
constitute a hazard to the safe and efficient operation of vehicles, or would
create a condition which might endanger the safety of any person.
      3.   Except as otherwise expressly set forth in Subsections J.5, K and L
of this Section, pertaining, respectively, to the installation of bench signs,
temporary election or political campaign signs, temporary promotional signs,
and except for authorized traffic signals, hazard signs, or similar devices, no
privately owned sign or portion of a privately owned sign or any of its
supporting structure may be located on or within, extend into, encroach upon,
or overhang any public property or right-of-way or be located within the
existing or proposed right-of-way of any street or area or area designated in
the Major Street And Highway Plan as a future street.
      4.   No sign, except as set forth in Subsections J.5, K and L of this
Section, shall be painted, pasted, posted, printed or nailed to or on any curb,
sidewalk, tree, light standard, utility pole, hydrant or bridge, or in any
manner displayed within the public property or public rights-of-way except
officially designated street numbers, legal notices, and identification,
informational or directional signs erected by a government agency in compliance
with such agency’s regulations.
   D.   Nonconforming Signs. Any sign legally existing at the effective date
hereof that does not conform in use, location, height, or size with the
regulations of the zoning district in which the sign is located shall be
considered a legal nonconforming use or structure and shall be permitted to
continue in such status only until such time as the sign is abandoned, removed,
relocated or replaced, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The structure of the sign may not be altered in any way except
toward compliance with this Chapter. Structural alterations which are necessary
for the maintenance, repair or restoration of the nonconforming sign are
permissible, provided said alterations do not increase the size, height, or
degree of nonconformity, or exceed 50 percent of the replacement value of the
sign.
      2.   The legal nonconforming sign may not be replaced except with a sign
conforming to the requirements of this Chapter.
      3.   The legal nonconforming sign is subject to all requirements of this
Section regarding safety, maintenance and repair. If, however, the sign suffers
damage or deterioration in excess of 50 percent of its replacement value, it
must be brought into compliance with this Chapter or removed within 30 days of
notification to the owner by the City.
      4.   The changing of sign copy, business name, lettering, sign faces,
colors, display, graphic matter, and/or the content of any sign copy shall not
be deemed an alteration or replacement.
   E.   Maintenance of Signs. All signs and sign structures shall be properly
maintained in good condition and repair. Should any sign become structurally
unsafe or a safety hazard, the owner, upon notification by the City, shall be
required to return the sign to a safe condition or remove the sign.
   F.   Removal of Obsolete, Non-maintained or Abandoned Signs. All signs,
including those painted on a building, which no longer serve the purpose for
which they were intended, are not maintained, have been determined to present a
hazard, or have otherwise been abandoned, shall be removed or restored by the
business or property owner within 30 days of notification by the City.
   G.   AG District Requirements.
      1.   Principal Use Signs. Signs as principal uses are subject to the
following conditions:
         a.   Off-site and outdoor advertising on a lot abutting designated
state or federal highways must conform to all applicable state and federal
regulations;
         b.   The maximum display surface area for ground signs and outdoor
advertising on a lot abutting U.S. Highway 75, State Highway 117, State Highway
67, or frontage roads thereof, shall be limited to an aggregate of one and one-
half (1.5) square feet of display area per each linear foot of street frontage,
provided that no single sign shall exceed 300 square feet;
         c.   The maximum display surface area of ground signs and outdoor
advertising on a lot not abutting U.S. Highway 75, State Highway 117, State
Highway 67, or a frontage road thereof, shall be limited to one square foot of
display area per linear foot of street frontage, provided that no single sign
shall exceed 160 square feet; and
         d.   A ground sign shall not exceed 30 feet in height, measured from
the mean curb level of the lot upon which it is erected, unless, in addition to
the minimum setback prescribed in Subsection A.2 of this Section, the sign is
set back one foot for each one foot of height exceeding 30 feet, provided the
sign shall not exceed 50 feet in height regardless of the setback. Further
provided, that on a lot abutting U.S. Highway 75, or a frontage road thereof, a
sign shall not exceed 50 feet in height regardless of the setback. On a lot
abutting State Highway 117 or State Highway 67, or a frontage road thereof, a
sign shall not exceed 30 feet in height regardless of the setback.
      2.   Accessory Use Signs. Signs as accessory uses are subject to the
following conditions:
         a.   One bulletin board sign may be erected on each street frontage of
an educational, religious, institutional, or similar use which requires
announcements of its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed 12 square
feet in area nor eight feet in height. Illumination, if any, shall be by
constant light.
         b.   One identification sign may be erected on each arterial street
frontage of a permitted nonresidential use. The sign shall not exceed 32 square
feet in surface area nor eight feet in height. Illumination, if any, shall be
by constant light.
         c.   One identification sign may be erected on each non-arterial
street frontage of a permitted nonresidential use. The sign shall not exceed 16
square feet in surface area nor eight feet in height. Illumination, if any,
shall be by constant light.
         d.   A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental, or lease of the
premises may be erected on each arterial street frontage of the premises. The
sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in surface area nor eight feet in height.
Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
         e.   A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental, or lease of the
premises may be erected on each non-arterial street frontage of the premises.
The sign shall not exceed 16 square feet in surface area nor eight feet in
height. Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
         f.   Signs are permitted on private site light poles with a permit if
included as part of an entire site sign package.
         g.   Signs shall not be allowed on state or federal highway rights-of-
way or access roads to such highways.
         h.   Signs are not allowed on fences, utility poles, trees, rocks,
etc.
         i.   On-site and off-site temporary promotional signs may be permitted
in agricultural districts subject to the provisions of Subsection L of this
Section, provided that a sign permit is obtained subject to review and zoning
approval by the City Planner.
   H.   Residential District Requirements. Signs are permitted in residential
districts as follows:
      1.   One bulletin board may be erected on each street frontage of an
educational, religious, institutional, or similar use which requires
announcements of its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed 12 square
feet in area nor eight feet in height, and illumination, if any, shall be by
constant light.
      2.   One identification sign may be erected on each arterial street
frontage of a permitted use. The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in
surface area nor eight feet in height. Illumination, if any, shall be by
constant light.
      3.   One identification sign may be erected on each non-arterial street
frontage of a permitted use. The sign shall not exceed 16 square feet in
surface area nor eight feet in height. Illumination, if any, shall be by
constant light.
      4.   During the period of development construction, a temporary sign
advertising the construction and sale of improvements on the premises may be
erected on each perimeter street frontage of the development. The sign shall
not exceed one-half (0.5) square foot per each linear foot of arterial street
frontage. Such temporary construction sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in
surface area nor eight feet in height. Illumination, if any, shall be by
constant light. All such signs must be removed prior to building permits being
issued on more than 75 percent of the lots in the subdivision.
      5.   A temporary real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or lease
of the premises may be erected on each street frontage of a lot. The sign shall
not exceed eight square feet in surface area nor five feet in height.
Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light in an RM or RD district. In an
RS or RE district, the sign shall not exceed two square feet in surface area
nor more than four feet in height and shall not be illuminated in any manner.
      6.   Off-site temporary residential subdivision banner signs are
permitted, subject to the following requirements:
         a.   A sign permit and permit fee are required.
         b.   The sign is allowed at the entrance into a residential
subdivision only.
         c.   The sign must be secured inside of PVC pipe or a metal frame.
         d.   The sign must be stretched tightly inside the frame.
         e.   The sign height shall be four feet maximum.
         f.   The maximum display area shall be 32 square feet.
         g.   A site plan must be submitted with the sign permit showing the
proposed sign location.
         h.   The time frame is 30 days, and is renewable.
         i.   Signs are allowed on private property and City rights-of-way.
         j.   Signs are not allowed on state or federal highway rights-of-way
or access roads to such highways.
      7.   Off-site temporary directional signs, such as real estate “open
house” signs, are permitted, subject to a sign permit and payment of a permit
fee.
         a.   Permittee may have a total of five signs per permit at any one
time per “open house”, including a combination of entrance signs and
directional signs, as defined in this Chapter.
         b.   All signs under this permit are required to have the name and
phone number of the licensed real estate agent or applicant who filed for the
sign permit permanently affixed to each sign.
         c.   Types of signs allowed for “open house” advertising with this
permit include:
            (1)   Entrance Signs: Up to a maximum of five signs, including
directional signs, are allowed at the entrance of a subdivision to advertise
the “open house” inside that subdivision. The maximum display area per sign is
four square feet per side. The hours the signs may be posted are 4:00 P.M.
Thursday until 8:00 P.M. the immediately following Sunday.
            (2)   Directional Signs: Up to a maximum of five signs, including
entrance signs, are allowed in the interior of a subdivision to direct the
public to an “open house”. The maximum display area per sign is four square
feet per side. These signs are allowed to remain for the duration of the
listing agreement for the “open house” property. Directional signs may be
allowed on private property with the permission of the property owner, but do
not abrogate any applicable subdivision covenants, conditions and restrictions
or HOA approval. Signs are allowed on City rights-of-way provided that they do
not impede or negatively affect the line- of-sight of drivers on public rights-
of-way.
         d.   No paper, cardboard or homemade signs are allowed.
         e.   Signs are not allowed on state or federal highway rights-of-way
or access roads to such highways.
      8.   Garage sale signs are permitted in all R districts, subject to the
following requirements:
         a.   A garage sale sign permit and permit fee are required.
         b.   Signs are limited to three and shall be supplied by the City.
         c.   No paper, cardboard or homemade signs are allowed.
         d.   Each sign shall contain the address, permit number and dates of
sale.
         e.   The hours the signs may be posted are 4:00 P.M. Thursday until 8:
00 P.M. the immediately following Sunday.
         f.   A map showing the proposed locations of signs must be part of the
permit application submitted.
         g.   There is a limit of four garage sale sign permits allowed per
year, per address/owner.
         h.   Signs are allowed on private property and city rights-of-way.
         i.   Signs are not allowed on state or federal highway rights-of-way
or access roads to such highways.
      9.   On-site and off-site temporary promotional signs may be permitted in
residential districts subject to the provisions of Section L of this Chapter,
provided that a sign permit is obtained subject to review and approval by the
City Planner.
   I.   Office District Requirements. Signs are permitted in office districts
as follows:
      1.   In the OL and OM districts, one business sign not exceeding 32
square feet of surface area may be erected on each street frontage of a lot.
Ground signs shall not exceed the height of the building in which the principal
use is located or 15 feet, whichever is lower. No accessory use sign shall be
located within 150 feet of a residential district. Illumination, if any, shall
be by constant light.
      2.   Wall signs shall not exceed an aggregate display surface area of one
square foot per linear foot of the building wall to which the sign or signs are
affixed. The size of a wall sign located on a multi-tenant building will be
determined by the linear feet of street frontage of any individual business.
      3.   During the period of development construction, a temporary sign
advertising the construction of improvements on the premises may be erected on
each arterial street frontage of the development. The sign shall not exceed
one-half (0.5) square foot per each linear foot of arterial street frontage.
Such temporary construction sign shall not exceed 32 square feet of surface
area nor more than 15 feet in height. Illumination, if any, shall be by
constant light. All such signs must be removed upon completion of construction
or revocation of the building permit, except, if the temporary sign is for a
subdivision under construction, then the sign must be removed prior to building
permits being issued on more than 75 percent of the lots in the subdivision.
      4.   A temporary real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or lease
of the premises may be erected on each street frontage of a lot. The sign shall
not exceed 32 square feet in surface area nor more than 15 feet in height.
Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
      5.   On-site permanent advertising banners are subject to the following
requirements:
         a.   A sign permit and permit fee are required.
         b.   The sign must be secured inside of PVC pipe or a metal frame.
         c.   The sign must be stretched tightly inside the frame.
         d.   The maximum display area shall be 32 square feet.
         e.   The sign height shall be four feet maximum.
         f.   One sign is allowed per lot frontage on a public street.
         g.   No homemade signs are allowed.
         h.   Signs are not allowed on City rights-of-way or on state or
federal highway rights-of- way or access roads to such highways.
         i.   A map must be submitted with the sign permit application showing
the proposed sign location.
         j.   These signs may be included in the site signage program and may
be changed out with each new advertising item without a new sign permit. If
included in the permanent site signage program, the four foot maximum sign
height does not apply.
      6.   On-site and off-site temporary promotional signs may be permitted in
office districts subject to the provisions of Subsection L of this Chapter,
provided that a sign permit is obtained subject to review and approval by the
City Planner.
   J.   Commercial and Industrial District Requirements. Signs are permitted in
commercial and industrial districts as follows:
      1.   Height Requirements. A ground sign shall not exceed 30 feet in
height, measured from the mean curb level of the lot or tract upon which it is
erected, unless, in addition to the minimum intersection setback prescribed in
Subsection A.2 of this Chapter, the sign is set back one foot for each foot of
sign height exceeding 30 feet. If the lot or tract abuts U.S. Highway 75 or a
frontage road to that highway, the sign may be 50 feet in height regardless of
the setback from the right-of-way. However, no sign shall exceed 50 feet in
height regardless of setback.
      2.   Display Surface Area Requirements.
         a.   The maximum display surface area of a ground sign on a commercial
or industrial lot abutting a state or federal highway, or an access road to
such a highway, shall be limited to an aggregate of one and one-half (1.5)
square feet of display area per each linear foot of street frontage, provided
that no single sign shall exceed 300 square feet of display area.
         b.   The maximum display surface area of a ground sign in a commercial
or industrial district not abutting a state or federal highway, or an access
road to such a highway, shall be limited to an aggregate of one square foot of
display area per each linear foot of street frontage, provided that no single
sign shall exceed 180 square feet.
         c.   Wall signs shall not exceed an aggregate display surface area of
one and one-half (1.5) square feet per linear foot of the building wall to
which the sign or signs are affixed. The size of a wall sign located on a
multi-tenant building will be determined by the linear feet of street frontage
of any individual store or business with a maximum size of 300 square feet.
         d.   Window signs are limited to an area of 25 percent of a window
area or door with a maximum of 25 square feet.
      3.   On-site and Off-site Temporary Promotional Signs. On-site and off-
site temporary promotional signs are permitted in commercial and industrial
districts subject to the provisions of Section L of this Section, provided that
a sign permit is obtained subject to review and approval by the City Planner.
      4.   On-site Permanent Advertising Banners.
         a.   A sign permit and permit free are required.
         b.   The sign must be secured inside of PVC pipe or a metal frame.
         c.   The sign must be stretched tightly inside the frame.
         d.   The maximum display area shall be 32 square feet.
         e.   The sign height shall be four feet maximum.
         f.   One sign is allowed per lot frontage on a public street.
         g.   No homemade signs are allowed.
         h.   Signs are not allowed on City rights-of-way or on state or
federal highway rights-of- way or access roads to such highways.
         i.   A map, or site plan, must be submitted with the sign permit
application showing the proposed sign location.
         j.   These signs may be included in the site signage program and may
be changed out with each new advertising item without a new sign permit. If
included in the permanent site signage program, the four foot maximum sign
height does not apply.
   5.   Off-Site Bench Signs.
         a.   Bench signs are a type of sign which, because of their potential
location in a City right-of-way, and the extent to which they could
proliferate, if unregulated, shall require the consent of the property owner,
the issuance of a Specific Use Permit, and a Specific Use Agreement.
         b.   Bench signs shall be subject to the terms and conditions of an
SUP, which may be granted by the City Council upon receipt of a recommendation
by the Planning Commission, subject to all submittal, notification, public
hearing and procedural requirements for an SUP. The following information shall
be submitted with an SUP application:
            (1)   Size and dimensions of each proposed bench sign, and a
rendering of the same.
            (2)   Sign display surface area, and the maximum sign copy area
proposed.
            (3)   A site plan, plat or map showing the location of each bench
and the street setback in adequate detail to ensure that the benches will not
impede or negatively affect the line of sight of drivers on public rights-of-
way.
            (4)   Separation distances from other defined uses and buildings.
            (5)   Proposed bench maintenance plan.
            (6)   The maximum number of signs that are proposed.
         c.   The Commission may recommend, and the Council may attach, terms
and conditions to an SUP approval as each body deems to be necessary and
appropriate. Such conditions may include minimum liability and insurance
requirements. For benches approved to be located in a street right-of-way, the
City shall have the right to require that the applicant execute an
indemnification and hold harmless agreement.
   K.   Election/Political Campaign Sign Requirements. Election and political
campaign signs may be erected no more than 45 days prior to an election. Such
signs shall be removed by seven days following said election. Said signs may be
erected on City street rights-of-way or private property. The display surface
area of any political campaign sign shall not exceed 16 square feet. Political
campaign signs located in a public right-of-way may not exceed six square feet
of surface area regardless of zoning district. Only one side of a double-faced
sign shall be included in the computation of display area.
   L.   Temporary Promotional Signs.
      1.   Temporary promotional signs shall be permitted in any zoning
district, only as provided in this Subsection.
      2.   A site plan must be submitted with the sign permit application
showing the proposed number, construction material, surface and structural
dimensions, color, type of illumination, if any, and proof of ownership or
written permission of the owner of any lot upon which a proposed sign is to be
constructed or installed. A map showing the proposed location of each proposed
promotional sign, and the orientation of all proposed promotional signs,
including the spacing from other structures on the same lot as the proposed
promotional sign and on the nearest adjacent lot, must be submitted with the
sign permit application.
      3.   A permit fee shall be required for all promotional sign applications
if a sign permitted thereby is to be displayed for up to 30 days. Additional
fees shall be collected for all promotional sign applications if a sign
permitted thereby is to be displayed for up to 60 days, or for up to 90 days.
      4.   The sign permit application, including site plan, shall be submitted
to the City Planner for review and approval, denial or modification. The City
Planner may consult with the applicant and other appropriate city officers as
necessary during the review process. The City Planner shall render a decision
no later than one week after the application submission. An applicant whose
sign permit application is denied has the option of appealing the decision of
the City Planner to the Board of Adjustment, as set out in Section
11-9-17, Appeals. Except as otherwise provided by law for appeals to the Tulsa
County District Court, the decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be final.
      5.   The sign display term, measured in number of days of permissible
display of any promotional sign, shall be determined by the City Planner as a
part of the application review process. Factors to be considered shall include:
         a.   A reasonable or necessary time period during which the sign may
be displayed prior to the event which it advertises.
         b.   The duration of the event which it advertises.
         c.   The nature of the event which it advertises, such as, without
limitation, whether it is a commercial or charitable event.
         d.   Maximum number of days after the event by which the permittee
shall have all promotional signs removed and properly disposed, but in no case
shall this be longer than 72 hours after the last day of the event.
In no case shall any promotional sign permit be valid for more than 90 days, at
which time the permittee may apply for a new permit under the same terms and
conditions as the original application.
      6.   Promotional signs are allowed on private property and City rights-
of-way, provided that the consent of the private property owner or the City,
respectively, is obtained. Proof of ownership or written permission of the
owner of any lot upon which a proposed sign is to be constructed or installed
must be submitted with the site plan and application.
      7.   No paper, cardboard or homemade promotional signs, and no snipe
signs, are permitted.
      8.   Promotional signs are not allowed on state or federal highway
rights-of-way or access roads to such highways.
      9.   Neither the maximum height nor the maximum display area of a
promotional sign shall exceed the height or display area of any ground sign or
outdoor advertising sign permitted in the district where the proposed
promotional sign is to be erected and displayed.
      10.   Any promotional advertising sign attached to fencing surrounding
the sporting grounds at any public park may be of no larger dimensions than
those of the fence to which it is attached and must be positioned so as to face
inwardly toward users of the fenced-in sporting grounds unless otherwise
allowed due to the unique nature of a particular event and subject to approval
by the City Planner.
      11.   On-site inflatable devices may be used for the purpose of
advertising in any zoning district subject to site plan review and approval. No
off-site inflatable devices are permitted and no inflatable device may be
installed on the roof of any building.
      12.   Promotional signs shall not be permitted on the roof of any
building.
      13.   No promotional sign shall contain more than two sides, and only one
side shall be included in the computation of display surface area. The two
sides shall face in opposite directions. Opposite shall, in addition to its
ordinary meaning, include V-shaped signs when the angle of separation of the
display surfaces does not exceed 30 degrees (30°).
      14.   Temporary promotional signs shall be oriented to be visible
primarily from the adjacent roadway.
      15.   No promotional sign shall include:
         a.   Illuminated digital signage.
         b.   Flashing, blinking or scrolling signage.
         c.   Signage that is illuminated from within.
         d.   Signage that includes illumination from an external source that
is either a flashing light of any intensity or a constant spotlight or focused
beam of light in excess of 70 foot-candles, measured at a two-foot distance.
         e.   Illuminated signage where the illumination extends beyond the
surface of the sign in such a manner as to shine or reflect upon a street
surface, vehicle, residence or business.
      16.   Promotional signs that include animation, revolving or rotating
components, or any other kind of mechanical movement shall be permitted at the
sole discretion of the City Planner, subject to the following limitations:
         a.   No such sign shall be located within 50 feet of the driving
surface of a signalized intersection. The 50 feet shall be measured in a
straight line from the nearest point on a sign structure to the nearest point
of the signalized intersection.
         b.   No such sign shall be located within 20 feet of the driving
surface of a street. The 20 feet shall be measured in a straight line from the
nearest point on a sign structure to the nearest point of the street curb or
edge of the traveled roadway marked or understood as such.
         c.   No such sign shall be visible from a residential district except
to the extent that it is visible when placed within 50 feet of the business,
commodity, service, industry, product, recreational or cultural activity,
profession, performance or similar related concept or endeavor for which the
sign is installed and displayed.
      17.   No promotional sign shall be permitted to be located upon or
constructed within a required parking space or loading berth, nor to otherwise
obstruct vehicular or pedestrian access or circulation, or pose any other
hazard to motor vehicle traffic exiting, entering or traveling within the site
on which the sign is located.
      18.   Every promotional sign shall be maintained in good structural
condition at all times including, as applicable, painted surfaces, metal parts,
and such repairs or alterations as necessary to prevent dilapidation or
unsightly damage.
      19.   All promotional signs that are ground signs shall be securely
built, constructed and erected upon foundations, posts, standards, or supports
designed adequately to support the sign. In no case shall “A-frame” signs be
permitted.
      20.   Promotional signage of any description serving the purpose of
advertising or otherwise directing public attention to any business, commodity,
service, industry, product, recreational or cultural activity, profession,
performance or similar related concept or endeavor, whether for profit or not
for profit, may, at the discretion of the City Planner, be limited to such
events as take place within or otherwise benefit the City.
      21.   Any reference in this Subsection to the City Planner shall include
any designee of the City Planner.
   M.   Penalty. Any signs installed in violation of this Chapter shall be
subject to the enforcement and remedies set out in Chapter 11, Enforcement and
Remedies, of this Title. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 8
CODE ADMINISTRATORS
SECTION:
Purpose And Application
11-8-1: Purpose And Applicability
11-8-2: Code Of Ethics
Code Administrators
11-8-3: City Council
11-8-4: Planning Commission
11-8-5: Board Of Adjustment
11-8-6: Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)
11-8-7: City Planner
11-8-8: Other City Officials
PURPOSE AND APPLICATION
11-8-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
Generally. The purpose of this Chapter is to:
   A.   Describe the role of City staff in the administration of this Title and
the approvals issued hereunder;
   B.   Establish and describe the roles and responsibilities of the Planning
Commission and Board of Adjustment in the administration of this Title and for
making recommendations and decisions; and
   C.   Describe the scope of authority retained by the City Council with
respect to the implementation and amendment of this Title. (Ord. 746, 11-14-
2017)
11-8-2: CODE OF ETHICS:
   A.   Conflict of Interest. The Mayor or any member of the City Council,
Planning Commission, or Board of Adjustment, to whom some private benefit,
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, may come as a result of a public
action concerning this Title, shall not be a participant in that action. The
possibility, not the actuality, of a conflict, shall govern. The individual
experiencing a conflict of interest shall declare his or her interest, abstain
from voting on the matter and refrain from any deliberations on the matter. The
individual shall not discuss the matter with a fellow official for the purpose
of influencing a decision thereon.
   B.   Ex Parte Contacts Prohibited.
      1.   For the purposes of this Chapter, ex parte contacts and
communications are defined as the receipt, either directly or indirectly, of
verbal, visual, or written communications outside a duly noticed, open hearing
on the record, at which all parties and all Board, Commission or Council
members have an opportunity to be present.
      2.   Members shall refrain from permitting ex parte contacts or
communications with any person regarding any matter pending before or which may
be reasonably expected to be pending before them.
      3.   Ex parte contacts shall not influence quasi-judicial proceedings. If
a member of the Board, Commission or Council obtains information outside of the
public hearing process, whether through inadvertent ex parte communications
with interested parties or through specific personal knowledge of a case, he or
she shall fully disclose the information or knowledge to the Board, Commission
or Council during the public hearing, along with the source of the information.
      4.   Such ex parte communications or personal knowledge of a case shall
not constitute a conflict of interest or other basis for excuse from
participation in any case. Ex parte contacts shall also be prohibited for
matters under reconsideration by the Board, Commission or Council.
      5.   The prohibition against ex parte contacts remains in effect as long
as a matter may reasonably be expected to come before the Board, Commission or
Council until after all appeal and remands for further consideration and
reconsideration have concluded or the time for such proceedings has expired.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
CODE ADMINISTRATORS
11-8-3: CITY COUNCIL:
The City Council shall have all powers conferred upon it by City Code, Title 1,
Chapter 7, and those specific duties and responsibilities set out in this
Title. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-8-4: PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   Establishment, Membership. The Planning Commission is hereby created,
effective when all of the appointive members have been appointed as herein
provided. The Commission shall consist of five appointive members, all of whom
shall be residents of the City. The City Planners, the City Engineer, and City
Attorney, shall be ex-officio members.
   B.   Appointments, Terms, Compensation, Vacancies, and Removals.
      1.   Appointments to the Planning Commission shall be made by the City
Council upon proper motion and majority vote thereof;
      2.   Commissioners shall serve for terms of three years, with the term to
end at six thirty o’clock p.m. on the second Monday in May;
      3.   Vacancies shall be filled by the City Council for any unexpired
terms;
      4.   The members shall serve without compensation; and
      5.   The Council may remove members of the Commission for cause.
   C.   Organization and Proceedings.
      1.   Officers and Rules. The Planning Commission shall elect a Chair, a
Vice Chair, and Secretary, who shall serve until six thirty o’clock p.m. on the
second Monday of the subsequent May after their election. The Secretary need
not be a member of the Commission. The Commission may adopt by-laws or any
rules necessary to conduct its affairs.
      2.   Proceedings. The Commission shall determine the time and place of
its regular meetings, and the Chair, the City Council, or any three
Commissioners, may call a Special Meeting of the Commission.
   D.   Powers and Duties.
      1.   The Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties
prescribed therefor by Oklahoma Statutes Title 11, § 11-45-101 through § 11-45-
104, and all other powers and duties now, or hereafter, prescribed therefor by
any other provision of state law.
      2.   The Planning Commission is hereby designated as the Zoning
Commission of the City, and shall have all powers of a Zoning Commission, as
provided by state law, whether exercising the powers of the Planning Commission
or the powers of a Zoning Commission.
      3.   In exercising the powers of a Zoning Commission, the Planning
Commission shall recommend the boundaries of the various zones and appropriate
zoning regulations to be enforced therein. It shall have all the powers
conferred upon a zoning commission by Oklahoma Statutes Title 11, § 11-43-101
through § 11-43-109, and all powers which now or in the future may be granted
by applicable state law to such authorities.
      4.   The Commission shall have those specific duties and responsibilities
expressly set out in this Title.
   E.   Advisors, Staff, and Expenses. The Planning Commission may employ
engineers, attorneys, clerks, and other assistance deemed necessary, subject to
City Council approval. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-8-5: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Establishment and Membership. There is hereby established a Board of
Adjustment with the powers and duties hereinafter set forth. The Board shall
consist of five members who shall be residents of the City. The City Council
may designate alternate members to serve as a Board member in the absence of
any regular Board member, provided that the alternate members meet the criteria
of this Section to serve on the Board.
   B.   Appointments, Terms, Compensation, and Vacancies.
      1.   All appointments of Board of Adjustment members shall be made by the
City Council, upon majority vote thereof.
      2.   Board members, and any alternate members, shall serve without pay
for a term of three years.
      3.   Vacancies shall be filled by City Council for any unexpired term.
   C.   Removals. A Board of Adjustment member, upon written cause and after a
public hearing, may be removed from the Board by the City Council for any one
of the following causes:
      1.   Failure to attend three consecutive regular or special meetings or
failure to attend two- thirds (2/3) of the regular or special Board meetings
held during any six month period.
      2.   Actions and conduct unbecoming a public official of the City.
      3.   Repeated acts and conduct detrimental to the peace, health, safety
and welfare of the City.
   D.   Organization and Proceedings.
      1.   Officers and Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chair,
Vice Chair, and Secretary. The City Planner may be designated as Secretary. The
Board may adopt by- laws or any rules necessary to conduct its affairs.
      2.   Proceedings.
         a.   Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chair and at such other
times as the Board may determine. The Chair, or in his absence, the Vice Chair
or Acting Chair, may administer oaths and compel attendance of witnesses.
         b.   All meetings, deliberations, and voting of the Board shall be
open to the public.
         c.   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, in the Official Records of the City.
         d.   In all matters, the Board shall render a decision within 90 days
after the filing of an application for Board consideration.
         e.   The quorum, notice, filing and substantive requirements of the
Board shall be as set forth in this Title concerning the Board’s exercise of a
particular power.
   E.   Powers and Duties.
      1.   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to hear appeals from
the determinations of the City Planner or Building Official in administering
and enforcing this Title, grant special exceptions and variances, and make
interpretations of the Official Zoning Map and text of this Title, in
accordance with the substantive and procedural standards hereinafter set forth.
      2.   The Board shall have all the powers and duties prescribed therefor
by Oklahoma Statutes Title 11, § 11-44-101 through § 11-44-110, and all other
powers and duties now, or hereafter, prescribed therefor by any other provision
of state law.
   F.   Notice of Public Hearing.
      1.   The Board of Adjustment shall give notice and conduct a public
hearing before acting on any appeal from a determination of the City Planner or
Building Official, and before granting any Special Exception or variance.
      2.   The Board may not conduct a public hearing or render a decision on
any variance or Special Exception until public notice of the Board meeting is
provided a minimum of 10 days prior to the public hearing and meeting in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City and written notice has been
provided to all owners of property within a 300 foot radius of the outer
boundaries of the subject property. Appeals shall not require publication or
written notice.
      3.   Required notice shall contain:
         a.   The legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location of the property.
         b.   The present zoning of the property and the nature of the relief
sought.
         c.   The date, time and place of the hearing and the name and contact
information of the City Planner to obtain addition information regarding the
request.
      4.   Through a registered bonded abstract company or a licensed title
insurance company, a list of property owners and their mailing addresses,
within a 300 foot radius of the outer boundaries of the subject property, as
well as addressed adhesive envelope labels for all such property owners. The
costs of publication, mailing and related administrative expenses shall be
billed to the applicant. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-8-6: TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE (TAC):
The Technical Advisory Committee, as established in Title 12 (Subdivision),
Section
12-3-2, Technical Advisory Committee, may be convened by the City Planner, as
necessary, to administrate any of the requirements of this Title. Section
12-3-2, in its entirety, is incorporated by reference into this Title. (Ord.
746, 11-14-2017)
11-8-7: CITY PLANNER:
   A.   Administration. It shall be the duty of the City Planner, or in
consultation with the TAC and Building Official, to administer all requirements
set out in this Title.
   B.   Violations. If the City Planner finds that any provision of this Title
is being violated, the City Planner shall notify in writing the person
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action(s) necessary to correct the violation and to take any
additional action to ensure compliance with, or prevent violation of, its
provisions as set out in Chapter 11, Enforcement and Remedies, of this Title.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-8-8: OTHER CITY OFFICIALS:
City officials vested with the authority to issue any permit, license, service
connection, or other approval shall comply with the requirements of this Title
and withhold the issuance of any permit, license, service connection, or other
approval for any use, purpose, excavation, construction, driveway, structure,
building, or sign in conflict with the provisions of this Title. (Ord. 746, 11-
14-2017)
CHAPTER 9
PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
Administrative Permits And Procedures
11-9-1: Zoning Clearance Permit
11-9-2: Site Plan
11-9-3: Limited Use Authorization
11-9-4: Minor PUD Amendments
11-9-5: Approved Site Plan Amendment, Minor
Public Meeting Permits And Procedures
11-9-6: Approved Site Plan Amendment, Major
11-9-7: Zoning Text Amendment
11-9-8: Zoning Map Amendment (Rezoning)
11-9-9: Conceptual Development Plan (CDP) For A PUD
11-9-10: Preliminary Development Plan (PDP) For A PUD
11-9-11: Final Development Plan (FDP) for a PUD
11-9-12: Major PUD Amendments
11-9-13: Specific Use Permit (SUP)
11-9-14: Limited Use and Site Plan Referrals
11-9-15: Comprehensive Plan Amendment
Board of Adjustment Actions
11-9-16: Zoning Interpretations
11-9-17: Appeals
11-9-18: Variances
11-9-19: Special Exceptions
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Chapter 9 is divided into Subchapter 1, Administrative Permits and Procedures,
which only require administrative approval, and Subchapter 2, Public Meeting
Permits and Procedures, which require action by the City Council, Planning
Commission or Board of Adjustment. In all instances, approvals granted under
both Subchapters are issued on the basis of approved plans and applications and
only authorize the uses, arrangements and construction set forth in such
approved plans and applications, and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Development at variance with the approved site plan, application
or condition of approval shall be deemed a violation of this Title, subject to
the remedies set out in Chapter 11, Enforcement and Remedies.
11-9-1: ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, move,
add to, or structurally alter any building or structure, or to use or change
the use of any building or land, or to permit the aforementioned actions, until
a Zoning Clearance Permit is issued by the Building Official, upon clearance by
the City Planner.
   B.   Application for Permit. An application for a Zoning Clearance Permit
shall be accompanied by a legal description of the lot, plans drawn to scale
showing dimension of the lot; the location, size, and height of any existing
building or structures; the location, size, and height of buildings or
structures proposed to be erected or altered; existing and intended use of each
building or structure; and other information necessary to determine compliance
with this Title.
   C.   Action on Application. The Building Official, in consultation with the
City Planner, shall act on the application for a Zoning Clearance Permit within
three days after it is filed. The Building Official shall return one copy of
the plans marked as “Approved” and issue a Zoning Clearance Permit or notify
the applicant in writing why a permit cannot be issued and the reasons
therefore.
   D.   Permit Fees. A Zoning Clearance Permit shall not be issued until plans
demonstrating compliance with the requirements of this Title are submitted,
approved and a Zoning Permit Application fee paid. A group Zoning Clearance
Permit may be issued covering five or more residential lots in the same
subdivision, subject to the payment of applicable “per lot” application fees.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-9-2: SITE PLAN:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the site plan process is to determine if a site
plan complies with all requirements of this Title, all requirements of the City
Code and other applicable ordinances, and the requirements of all utilities and
referral agencies with jurisdiction.
   B.   Process. The site plan process shall generally be an administrative
process managed by the City Planner and TAC. However, the site plan could be
referred to the Planning Commission by reasons of:
      1.   Potential adverse effects on public services or the ability of the
City or a referral agency to provide adequate services;
      2.   Potential adverse effects on surrounding properties or uses;
      3.   Failure of the developer to provide traffic mitigation improvements,
on-site or off-site, as set out in Title 12, Section
12-4-1, Responsibilities of the Subdivider or Developer;
      4.   City Planner or TAC referral due to questions or issues regarding
the ability of the site plan to comply with all applicable City or referral
agency requirements;
      5.   An appeal by an applicant following the denial of a site plan by the
City Planner;
      6.   A requirement for Commission approval as a condition of approval as
stipulated in this Title or by the Board of Adjustment, Planning Commission or
City Council as a condition of approval for a development process in Subchapter
2, Public Meeting Permits and Procedures.
The Commission shall deny, approve, conditionally approve or refer the
application to the City Council with a recommendation. If the application is
denied by the Commission, the applicant may appeal that action to the City
Council, whereby the Council shall approve, conditionally approve or deny the
application.
   C.   Site Plan Contents. The site plan shall contain all information
necessary to demonstrate compliance with this Title and all other codes,
ordinances and referral agency requirements. Attached in Appendix A, Section
A.2, Site Plan Requirements, is a site plan contents checklist. Additional
information may be required by the City to determine if a proposed development
will result in the need for public improvements, such as, but not limited to
additional right-of-way, turn lanes, traffic signals or utilities, or if
platting is required.
   D.   Site Plan Review of Mobile Home Parks and Multi-Family Complexes with
Eight or More Dwelling Units. By reason of the potential adverse effects of
these uses on public services and to neighboring land uses, the City shall
assure that each development has proper emergency vehicle accessibility, safe
circulation, proper functional relationships of uses, and is compatible with
adjoining and nearby development in terms of dumpster placement, parking,
building height, screening and buffering, and activity areas. No Zoning
Clearance Permit or Building Permit shall be issued and no use shall be
commenced until a site plan has been approved or a Certificate of Occupancy
issued until the use complies with the site plan which was approved.
   E.   Prohibited Actions.
      1.   No site plan will be approved prior to the platting of the subject
property. However:
         a.   A plat may be submitted simultaneously with the proposed site
plan upon approval of the City Planner.
         b.   In such cases, approval of the site plan application shall be
conditional upon the approval and recordation of the plat, and the City is not
obligated to approve the plat unless it complies with all requirements of Title
12.
      2.   No Zoning Clearance Permit, Building Permit or approval to allow
land clearing shall be issued for development prior to the approval of a site
plan required by this Title.
      3.   No lot grading, drainage work, parking lot construction or other
site improvements may commence without first obtaining approval of a site plan
for the proposed improvements.
      4.   No Certificate of Occupancy may be issued until all improvements
depicted as part of an approved site plan have been completed.
   F.   Enforcement. A Zoning Clearance Permit issued on the basis of an
approved site plan shall authorize only the uses, arrangement and construction
set forth in such approved plan and application, and no other use, arrangement,
or construction. Use, arrangement, or construction at variance with the
approved site plan shall be deemed a violation of this Title, subject to the
actions provided by Chapter 11, Enforcement and Remedies. (Ord. 746, 11-14-
2017)
11-9-3: LIMITED USE AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   Generally. The authorization of a limited use is an administrative
procedure where the City Planner determines if an application complies with the
standards set out in Chapter 3, Subchapter 3, Specific and Limited Uses, and
other applicable requirements of this Title.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Uses requiring limited use authorization are specified in Chapter 3,
Subchapter 2, Sections
11-3-8, Residential Uses by Zoning District, and 11-3-8, Nonresidential Uses by
Zoning District. Applications requiring limited use authorization shall be
submitted to the City Planner for review. The City Planner may convene a TAC
meeting to assess the application.
      2.   Until authorization of a limited use is given by the City Planner:
         a.   No construction, reconstruction, or remodeling of any structure
shall be commenced which would result in the alteration of any exterior
dimension of such structure, any structural alteration of such structure, or
any alteration in the amount of off-street parking or loading required in
conjunction with such structure.
         b.   No structure shall be moved.
         c.   No alteration of land preliminary to any use of such land shall
be commenced.
         d.   No building or other permits pertaining to the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling, or moving of any structure, or a change in the use
of any land or structure shall be issued by the City.
   C.   Submittal Requirements. Every application for limited use authorization
shall contain:
      1.   The name and contact information of the applicant and /or agent;
      2.   The address or location of the subject property;
      3.   The present use and zoning classification of the subject property;
      4.   A brief description of the construction or alteration of land,
change of use, or proposed use that requires the authorization of a limited
use; and
      5.   A description of the use in adequate detail to determine if the
proposed use will comply with all applicable limited use requirements, along
with a site plan, plan of operation and any supplemental information necessary
to ascertain if the use will comply with this Title.
   D.   Process and Decision.
      1.   Applications for limited use authorization shall be approved or
denied by the City Planner.
      2.   If the City Planner determines that an application does not comply
with the applicable standards and requirements for the use, the request shall
be denied. Upon denial, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Planning
Commission.
      3.   If Planning Commission action is required:
         a.   The City Planner shall file a written report detailing the
specific issues warranting denial of the application and measures taken by the
applicant to address the issues.
         b.   The Commission shall deliberate and vote to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the application and make written findings
stating how the application complies with, or failed to comply with, the
applicable standards and requirements.
         c.   The Commission may impose any reasonable conditions of approval
to mitigate any issues in order to approve the application.
         d.   Action by the Commission shall be final.
   E.   Enforcement. If an applicant fails to obtain authorization for a
limited use or fails to abide by all applicable standards, requirements, and
conditions of the authorization, the City may utilize any of the processes and
procedures set out in Chapter 11, Enforcement and Remedies, including, but not
limited to, the revocation of the administrative authorization. (Ord. 746, 11-
14-2017)
11-9-4: MINOR PUD AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Generally. Subject to the provisions of this Section, the City Planner
is authorized to approve minor changes or modifications to Conceptual,
Preliminary, and Final Development Plans for a PUD if the proposed changes will
not result in substantial deviation from the original plan, as set out in
Subsection C, Minor Amendment Determination Criteria, below.
   B.   PUD Plans and Permitting.
      1.   Permits may not be issued for any improvements that would result in
a major deviation from a Development Plan for a PUD, as set out in Section
11-9-12, Major PUD Amendments.
      2.   A Zoning Clearance Permit and building permit may be issued for
minor deviations from a Development Plan for a PUD if:
         a.   The Minor Amendment is approved by the City Planner, subject to
TAC review; and
         b.   Is consistent with Subsection C, Minor Amendment Determination
Criteria.
   C.   Minor Amendment Determination Criteria.
      1.   Determination of Major Amendments. In reaching a determination as to
whether a change is minor and may be approved by the City Planner or is a major
modification requiring Planning Commission review and recommendation and City
Council approval, the following criteria shall be used:
         a.   Any increase in intensity of use is a major amendment;
         b.   Any increase in total usable floor area, the total number of
dwelling or lodging units, or the amount of outdoor area devoted to a use is a
major amendment;
         c.   Any change that necessitates an increase of 10 percent or more in
the number of parking spaces required is a major amendment;
         d.   Any structural alteration that significantly affects the basic
size, form, style, and location of a building, particularly in relation to
sensitive uses, is a major amendment;
         e.   Any reduction in the amount of open space or buffer yard, or any
change in the location or characteristics of open space, is a major amendment;
and
         f.   Any change in use from one use group to another is a major
amendment.
Changes in the density and intensity of the development shall be determined
based on the entire PUD, and not only a portion of the PUD, unless the portion
where a change is proposed borders on a sensitive land use or deviates from the
purpose of the original PUD.
      2.   Determination of Minor Amendments. Minor amendments must demonstrate
that:
         a.   Development density or intensity will not materially change, in
that:
            (1)   The number of buildings is not increased by more than 10
percent;
            (2)   The height of the buildings is the same or less; and
            (3)   The number of residential dwelling units is the same or
fewer.
Density or intensity (floor area ratio) may be transferred from one building to
another or from one stage of development to another, provided that the total
floor area is not changed and the above conditions are met.
         b.   Design will not materially change if:
            (1)   Recreational facilities are added or are converted from one
recreational use to another;
            (2)   The materials and architectural expressions for building
elevations are substantially similar to those shown on the approved plans;
            (3)   Contemplated building footprints or envelopes are modified
but the buildings are not located any closer to protected uses or exterior
property lines than as shown on the approved plans;
            (4)   The proposed perimeter walls and/or fences are in the same
general location and of a comparable type and design as shown on the approved
plans;
            (5)   The open space is in the same general location, is the same
or greater amount, and is configured in a manner that does not diminish a
previously intended buffer;
            (6)   Building setbacks are the same, or a greater distance from
perimeter property lines, except that those for lot line homes, townhomes, and
cluster development may be decreased due to the nature of such development,
provided that all building code requirements are satisfied;
            (7)   Parking areas are in the same general location and
configuration as shown on the approved plans; and
            (8)   The roadway patterns, including ingress-egress points, are in
the same general location and are no closer to the rear or interior side
property lines than as shown on the approved plans.
         c.   The proposed changes will not have the effect of creating any
noncompliance or nonconformity with the strict application of this Title that
was not previously approved at a public hearing, or of expanding the scope of
existing variances, minor modifications, or other approvals, such that they
would differ to a greater degree from the strict application of this Title.
   D.   Administrative Approval Criteria. Subsequent to approval of a site
plan, Minor PUD Amendments may only be authorized by the City Planner if a
minor change will not cause any of the following circumstances to occur:
      1.   A change in the character of the development;
      2.   A change in the scale or impact of the existing use;
      3.   An increase in the residential density of the proposed development;
      4.   An increase in the gross floor area of nonresidential uses by more
than five percent;
      5.   A reduction in the originally approved separations between
buildings;
      6.   An increase in the external negative effects on adjacent property;
      7.   A reduction in the originally approved setbacks from property lines
unless conditions have changed on adjoining properties to warrant a reduction,
such as a change in zoning or land use;
      8.   An increase in the demand for services that the City or utility
provider cannot provide;
      9.   An increase of more than five percent in ground coverage by
structures;
      10.   Locations of open spaces, provided that the percentage of common
open space and/or landscaped area is not diminished or open space or buffering
around sensitive uses is not diminished; or
      11.   A change in the size, lighting or orientation of signs in relation
to sensitive uses.
   E.   City Planner Evaluation.
      1.   The City Planner, in reviewing a proposed Amendment, shall:
         a.   Compare the proposed amendment to the original approval;
         b.   Determine if any other amendments have been approved since the
original approval;
         c.   Consider the cumulative impact of any previously approved and
proposed amendments; and
         d.   Determine if a proposed Amendment is Minor or Major, as set out
in this Section.
      2.   Administrative approval or denial of a proposed Minor PUD Amendment
shall be documented in a report for the official project file with adequate
details to explain why the request was approved or denied and the rationale for
the decision.
      3.   Any other proposed changes shall be treated as a new application,
shall follow all procedures in this Subsection, and shall include evaluation of
the cumulative impact with previous amendments that may have been approved.
   F.   Procedures. Applications for a Minor Amendment to a Development Plan
for a PUD may be subject to TAC review and are processed in accordance with all
procedures for Administrative Site Plan reviews. Minor Amendments that are
approved shall be clearly notated in the official project file as to the nature
of the amendment and the date of approval. The overall Development Plan
governing the PUD shall be amended to show the amendment and shall clearly
notate the changes that were approved.
   G.   Decisions.
      1.   The City Planner shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny
applications for Minor PUD Amendments.
      2.   The City Planner, upon determining that a proposed amendment is a
Major Amendment, shall reject the application.
      3.   The decision of the City Planner determining that the proposed
amendment is “Major” may be appealed to the Planning Commission. Upon appeal,
the Commission shall evaluate the request based on all of the requirements set
out in this Section.
   H.   Construction Adjustments.
      1.   During the construction of an approved PUD, the City Planner and TAC
are authorized to grant adjustments in the location of a principal or accessory
building to any position within a construction site envelope consistent with
the specified minimum distance between buildings when such adjustments are
necessary in light of technical or engineering considerations first discovered
during construction.
      2.   Such adjustments shall be subject to the following limitations:
         a.   Parking and loading areas, access aisles, driveways, sidewalks,
walkways and pathways, signs, landscaping, and fences and screening may be
adjusted, as necessary, to accommodate changes in building location within the
construction site envelope;
         b.   Curb cuts and street intersections along public rights-of-way
serving the Planned Development shall not be adjusted, except as approved by
the TAC;
         c.   The plan for the treatment of the perimeter of the Planned
Development shall not be adjusted as to the type or quality of buffer yard
elements; and
         d.   Surface drainage leaving the site shall not be altered, except as
approved by the TAC. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-9-5: APPROVED SITE PLAN AMENDMENT, MINOR:
   A.   Applicability. The City Planner may authorize minor modifications to a
site plan approved by the City Council, Planning Commission or Board of
Adjustment if the amendments do not deviate from the original purposes of the
approved site plan and will comply with all requirements of this Title.
   B.   Procedures. All processes and procedures set out in Section
11-9-2, Site Plan, shall be applicable.
   C.   Approval Criteria. Decisions to approve or deny a minor amendment to an
approved site plan shall be based on the following criteria:
      1.   The amendment would be in the public interest.
      2.   The amendment would not:
         a.   Negatively impact the adjoining property or neighborhood.
         b.   Adversely impact the site on which the minor modification is
requested or any surrounding property.
         c.   Endanger the public health or safety.
         d.   Adversely affect the enjoyment, use, development or value of any
property.
   D.   Decision. Within 10 business days of the application, the City Planner
shall issue a written decision to approve or deny the minor modification, or
determine that the amendment exceeds the criteria for a minor amendment to an
approved site plan. Written findings shall be filed documenting the results of
the review and the rationale for the decision.
   E.   Effect of Approval. Upon approval of a minor modification, the
applicant may proceed with requests for other required approvals and permits.
   F.   Violations. Permits granted on the basis of an approved site plan for
which a minor amendment was also approved shall only authorize those uses,
arrangement, and construction set forth in such approved plans and applications
and no other use, arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement, or
construction at variance with the approved site plan shall be deemed a
violation of this Title, subject to the requirements set out in Chapter 11,
Enforcement and Remedies. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
PUBLIC MEETING PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
11-9-6: APPROVED SITE PLAN AMENDMENT, MAJOR:
   A.   Section
11-9-5, Approved Site Plan Amendment, Minor, sets out criteria to allow
administrative approval of minor amendments to any site plan approved by the
City Council, Planning Commission or Board of Adjustment. All other site plan
amendments shall be considered to be Major Site Plan Amendments and may only be
approved after filing a new application and completing all procedures
applicable to the process through which the original site plan was approved. An
example is a site plan approved with an SUP application. Major amendments to
that site plan would require the filing of a new SUP application.
   B.   The requirements of this Section are not applicable to site plans
associated with a PUD, major amendments to which are processed in accordance
with Section
11-9-12, Major PUD Amendments.
   C.   Zoning Clearance Permits, variances, SUPs and Special Exceptions
granted on the basis of approved plans and applications authorize only the
uses, arrangement and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications, and no other use, arrangement, or construction. Development at
variance with the approved site plan shall be deemed a violation of this Title,
subject to the remedies set out in Chapter 11, Enforcement and Remedies. (Ord.
746, 11-14-2017)
11-9-7: ZONING TEXT AMENDMENT:
   A.   City Policy. It shall be the policy of the City that, in the
consideration of proposed amendments to this Title, amendments will be adopted
to recognize changes in the Comprehensive Plan, to correct errors, and to
recognize changed or changing conditions in a particular area or the City in
general.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   The provisions of this Section apply to any request for an amendment
to the text of this Title but do not pertain to a specific piece of property.
      2.   The City Council may, from time to time, on its own motion, or at
the request of the City staff, amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal the
text of any portion of this Title to establish and maintain sound, stable and
desirable development.
      3.   The regulations in this Section shall exclude amendments to any
requirements of an outside agency or utility adopted by reference.
   C.   Application Requirements. Requests for amendments to the text of this
Title may be initiated by the Planning Commission, City Council, City Planner
or City Manager.
   D.   Processing of Application and Decision.
      1.   Submittal.
         a.   An application for an amendment to the text of this Title shall
be submitted to the City Planner or his designee.
         b.   The City Planner or his designee shall review the application and
may direct the proposed amendment to any other City Departments or consultant
for review and recommendation.
      2.   Notice of Public Hearings.
         a.   The City shall:
            (1)   Publish notice of the public hearings in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City at least 20 days prior to the first public
hearing; and
            (2)   Describe the nature of the matters to be considered, the
time, date, and place of the public hearings, and the City Planner contact
information.
         b.   The City shall also post notice of the public hearings at City
Hall.
      3.   Planning Commission Recommendation.
         a.   The City Planner shall forward a recommendation to the Planning
Commission for review and consideration.
         b.   The Commission shall hold a public hearing prior to taking action
on the proposed amendment to this Title.
         c.   The Commission shall make a written recommendation to the City
Council regarding the proposed amendment.
      4.   Decision by City Council.
         a.   The City Council shall receive the written recommendations of the
Commission and the City Planner regarding the proposed amendment.
         b.   The City Council shall hold a public hearing prior to taking
action on the proposed amendment.
   E.   Criteria for Approval. The following criteria shall be considered by
the City Planner, Planning Commission and City Council in consideration of a
proposed amendment to this Title:
      1.   The amendment will promote the health, safety, or general welfare of
the City and the safe, orderly and efficient development of the City;
      2.   The amendment is consistent with other goals and policies of this
Title and the Comprehensive Plan;
      3.   The amendment is consistent with the purposes of this Title, as
stated herein; and
      4.   The amendment is consistent with other criteria deemed to be
relevant.
   F.   Non-Substantive Amendments.
      1.   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section, the City
Council may, by resolution, correct spelling or punctuation errors, cross-
reference errors or changes, mapping errors, and other matters herein
determined by the City Attorney to be non-substantive without complying with
the foregoing provisions of this Section.
      2.   The number of any such adopted resolution shall be noted on the
Official City Records. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-9-8: ZONING MAP AMENDMENT (REZONING):
   A.   Application Requirements.
      1.   Prior to submitting an application, the applicant shall meet with
City staff and conduct one or more Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)
conferences. Minutes of a TAC conference shall be taken by the City, provided
to the applicant, and become a permanent part of the application, should an
application be filed, or in the official records of the City Planner if an
application is not filed.
      2.   An amendment to the Official Zoning Map shall be initiated by the
filing of an application and application fee with the City Planner.
      3.   Through a registered bonded abstract company or a licensed title
insurance company, the applicant shall submit to the City Planner a list of
property owners and their mailing addresses, within a 300 foot radius of the
outer boundaries of the subject property, as well as addressed adhesive
envelope labels for all such property owners.
      4.   The administrative costs of mailed notice, publication and
notification signs shall be paid by the applicant.
      5.   An application, once determined to be complete by the City Planner,
shall be set for public hearing by the City Clerk or City Planner, as
appropriate.
   B.   Notice Requirements.
      1.   The City shall use the list of property owners and address labels
provided by the applicant to notify such property owners of the required public
hearing, by mail, in the manner required by 11 Oklahoma Statutes Section 43-
106, for public hearings requesting a zoning change. The applicant shall be
responsible for all administrative costs associated with postage and the
mailing of notice.
      2.   The City shall publish legal notice of the required public hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation in the City not less than 20 days, nor
more than 30 days, prior to the public hearing. Publication arrangements will
be made by the City.
      3.   Rezoning notice signs shall be posted on the subject property by the
City. The signs shall include the current and proposed zoning of the property,
the identity of the property owner, the date of the public hearings, and the
City Planner contact information, and shall be posted at least 20 days prior to
the initial public hearing.
      4.   Written notice of the public hearings to consider the rezoning shall
be mailed not less than 20 days prior to the initial public hearing to all
owners of property within a 300 foot radius of the outer boundaries of the
subject property. The notice shall contain:
         a.   The date, time, and place of public hearing.
         b.   The legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location of the property.
         c.   The present zoning district classification of the property and
the proposed zoning district classification.
         d.   City Planner contact information.
   C.   Procedural Requirements. In accordance with Title 11, Oklahoma
Statutes, Sections 43-113, 43-114, 45-106 and 43-109.1, the requirements set
out below govern the rezoning process:
      1.   Planning Commission Action. The Planning Commission, after
conducting a public hearing, receiving the comments from TAC, if applicable,
the recommendation of the City Planner, and any public comments, shall make a
recommendation to the City Council to approve, conditionally approve, or deny
the application.
      2.   City Council Action. The City Council, after conducting a public
hearing, receiving the recommendation of the Commission and City Planner, TAC
comments, if applicable, and public comments, shall take action to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the application.
      3.   Super Majority Required. In the event of a protest against the
zoning change filed with the City Clerk at least three days prior to the public
hearing by the owners of 20 percent or more of the area of the lots included in
such proposed change, or by the owners of 50 percent or more of the area of the
lots immediately abutting any side of the territory included in such proposed
change, or separated therefrom only by an alley or street less than 300 feet
wide, the rezoning application may not be approved except by the favorable vote
of three-fifths (3/5) of all members of the City Council.
      4.   Application Amendment. During the course of the rezoning process,
the applicant, or the Planning Commission or City Council, may determine the
requested rezoning should be amended to a less intensive zoning classification.
Following are the parameters for such a modification that will not
automatically require new notice:
         a.   Notice of a proposed RM-2 rezoning shall confer jurisdiction on
the Planning Commission and City Council to consider and act upon RM-1, RD, RS-
3, RS-2, RS-1, and RE, or any combination thereof.
         b.   Notice of a proposed CG rezoning shall confer jurisdiction on the
Planning Commission and City Council to consider and act upon CG, CS, OM, and
OL or combination thereof, in the disposition of the application, and in like
manner, notice of any proposed C rezoning shall confer jurisdiction to consider
any less intensive C and O districts.
         c.   Notice of a proposed IH rezoning shall confer jurisdiction on the
Planning Commission and City Council to consider and act upon IM, IL, or
combination thereof, in the disposition of the application, and in like manner,
notice of any proposed I rezoning shall confer jurisdiction to consider any
less intensive I district.
         d.   Notice for proposed rezoning shall confer jurisdiction on the
Planning Commission and City Council to consider less intensive alternatives in
all use groups, those being single-family residential, multi-family
residential, office, commercial, and industrial. Proposed rezoning to the RMH
and PUD districts shall confer no latitude with respect to notice. (Ord. 746,
11-14-2017)
11-9-9: CONCEPTUAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN (CDP) FOR A PUD:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of a CDP is to enable a prospective development
applicant to demonstrate how a proposed PUD, at an initial conceptual stage,
will comply with the requirements set out in Chapter 3, Subsection 4, Planned
Unit Development, and Chapter 4, Subchapter 4, Design Standards, and other
relevant requirements of this Title. The City will determine if the substance
of the PUD concept may result in the public deriving adequate benefits to
justify an alternative approach to development design than possible under
conventional zoning standards. City staff will provide the prospective
applicant with feedback and direction should he choose to proceed with a
Preliminary Development Plan (PDP). The CDP will not contain the level of
detail required for Preliminary and Final Development Plans for a PUD and
generally will not exceed the submittal requirements in this Section, although
a prospective applicant may voluntarily submit more detailed information to
convey the concept of a proposed PUD.
   B.   Applicability. A CDP shall be submitted prior to the submittal of any
other application or plat in which PUD approval is requested.
   C.   Submittal Requirements. A CDP application shall provide the information
set out in Chapter 3, Subchapter 4, Planned Unit Developments, and the
following additional information:
      1.   Existing and proposed land uses, their relationship to each other,
and to surrounding uses. This plan may take the form of a “bubble” map that
shows proposed use types in an approximate fashion, including tentative
circulation diagrams and anticipated buffers or screening.
      2.   A map depicting physiographic information for the subject property
such as soil types, topography and any severe slopes, geology, vegetation,
flood plain boundaries and the location and availability of water and sanitary
sewer services.
      3.   A written narrative that includes:
         a.   The approximate number of acres of each type of land use.
         b.   The character, density, and intensity of dwellings, structures,
and uses on each section of the PUD.
         c.   Justification for the proposed uses, density and/or intensity in
relation to existing or proposed surrounding uses.
         d.   Proposed phasing of the development, if any, and a general
indication of the expected development schedule.
         e.   General discussion of the anticipated impacts that build-out may
have on community facilities and the measures necessary to address those
impacts.
   D.   Process. City staff reviews the CDP and prepares an informal report
with comments and questions for the applicant. The purpose of the staff/
applicant interaction is to identify strengths, weaknesses and potential issues
with the prospective application at an early stage, and these may be discussed
further through meetings between the applicant and staff.
      1.   The applicant may request to provide a preliminary presentation
regarding the CDP during a regular Planning Commission meeting. Commissioners
may ask questions of the applicant but should direct all comments to the City
Planner involving issues that should be addressed, or additional information or
details that should be provided, during the PDP process to facilitate
Commission review and decision.
   E.   Review Criteria. The CDP application shall be reviewed based on the PUD
rationale and purposes set out in Chapter 3, Subchapter 4, Planned Unit
Developments, and the ability of the CDP to adhere to the following criteria at
a conceptual level of review pending further details:
      1.   The CDP will further the objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and
other City plans.
      2.   The CDP will be compatible with, or blend into, the development
pattern and intensities in the area, or will establish a more desirable pattern
in terms of implementing City plans.
      3.   Adequate public services are available or may be extended to serve
the PUD.
      4.   The PUD design and proposed amenities will provide a high quality
environment.
      5.   Streets will have the capacity to serve the proposed development and
are consistent with the Major Street and Highway Plan.
      6.   Geologic hazard areas, steep slopes, open spaces, and natural
resources will be appropriately protected from the impacts of development.
      7.   Any off-site street or utility improvements necessary to adequately
serve the development are identified at a conceptual level, as set out in Title
12, Chapter 4, Developer and City Responsibilities.
   F.   Effect of CDP Process.
      1.   City staff will not approve or deny any CDP, but will offer comments
and recommendations to address the review criteria in Subsection E above, to
facilitate the preparation of a Preliminary Development Plan as set out in
Section
11-9-10, below.
      2.   Completion of the CDP process shall not provide any vesting for the
development or obligate the City to approve a Preliminary or Final Development
Plan when each is submitted. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-9-10: PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN (PDP) FOR A PUD:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of a PDP is to provide a detailed site layout for
the proposed PUD. Like a Preliminary Plat prior to a Final Plat, PDP approval
provides the basis for approval of a Final Development Plan.
   B.   Establishment of a Specific Density for Proposed Residential
Development.
      1.   The PDP shall propose an overall density per gross acre for all
portions of the site indicated for any form of residential use, consistent with
the allowable densities (residential units per acre) set out for each type of
residential use. This overall gross density, known as the specific density for
the proposed development, shall be justified by the PDP, based on the quality
of the design and the degree of its anticipated impacts and public benefits.
Once the specific density is established through the PDP, it shall be included
in the approved contract documents and plats to be submitted for approval with
the Final Development Plan.
      2.   If the applicant proposes phased development of a PUD:
         a.   The PDP shall assign a specific density to each phase that
involves any form of residential use.
         b.   The proposed density at each preliminary phase shall be justified
by a specific design.
         c.   Approved specific density from a phase which is not utilized when
that phase is built out may be carried over to another phase, so long as the
approved character of the overall PUD is not significantly altered and the
overall specific density for all phases involving any form of residential use
is not exceeded.
         d.   In no case shall the overall specific density established for the
PUD as a whole be increased.
   C.   Submittal Requirements. A PDP application shall include the following
information:
      1.   Proposed building envelopes, common open areas, public uses,
amenities and common use facilities to be dedicated to the City or reserved in
common ownership.
      2.   Approximate locations of all buildings, structures, and
improvements, and open space around buildings and structures.
      3.   A written statement describing the proposed PUD character, to
justify the creation of the PUD, and further narrative to elaborate on the
overall design style, colors, materials, and sign program for the PUD, which
may be accompanied by conceptual elevations or renderings.
      4.   Plans, reports and diagrams that include:
         a.   Proposed off-street parking and loading areas.
         b.   A circulation plan showing the proposed car, truck, bicycle, and
pedestrian networks and their relationship with existing or proposed streets.
         c.   Any special engineering features, such as, but not limited to,
stormwater detention areas, drainage plan, utility plan and traffic control
improvements.
         d.   Designation of any improvements to be dedicated to, or accepted
by, the City.
         e.   Proposed open space, buffering, perimeter design treatments and
amenity plans.
      5.   A development schedule indicating:
         a.   The approximate date when construction of the project is expected
to commence.
         b.   The phases in which the project will be built and the approximate
sequence and timing of when the public improvements, landscaping, buffering,
and amenities are proposed to begin and be completed in conjunction with the
phasing schedule.
         c.   Anticipated development rates per year in terms of acres, number
of residential units, square footage of nonresidential floor area, or similar
quantitative measures.
         d.   The location and area of common open spaces that will be provided
at each stage.
      6.   Legal agreements, provisions, and/or covenants and restrictions to
govern the use and maintenance of common areas.
      7.   The names and addresses of all property owners within 300 feet of
the PUD boundary.
   D.   Process.
      1.   The PDP shall be processed as set out in Section
11-9-8, Zoning Map Amendment (Rezoning).
      2.   A PDP shall require a public hearing and recommendation by the
Planning Commission and a public hearing and action by the City Council.
      3.   The City Planner may recommend amendments to the PDP throughout the
review process.
      4.   A Preliminary Plat may be filed and processed concurrently with the
PDP, at risk to the developer, or following PDP approval. If the Preliminary
Plat is filed with the PDP, the City may not take any action on the plat until
first approving the PDP. Applicants proposing concurrent PDP and Preliminary
Plat applications shall automatically consent to a waiver of all statutory
subdivision plat review and approval deadlines to the degree necessary to allow
the zoning approval of the PDP to occur prior to plat approval. Concurrent
action on both applications may be taken by the Commission and Council in a
single meeting, respectively for each body, provided that zoning action
precedes platting action. If the PDP application is denied, the Preliminary
Plat shall automatically be denied.
   E.   Review Criteria. The PDP shall comply with all applicable PUD standards
and PUD purposes and criteria set out in Chapter 3, Subchapter 4, Planned Unit
Developments.
   F.   Effect of PDP Decision.
      1.   Following the approval of a PDP, the applicant may submit an
application for a Final Development Plan and for a Preliminary or a Final Plat.
      2.   An approved PDP may be finalized by more than one FDP and Final
Plat.
      3.   If the PDP is denied, the applicant may submit an amended PDP
addressing the issues central to the denial of the PDP. Such a submittal will
not be considered a substantially similar application. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-9-11: FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN (FDP) FOR A PUD:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of an FDP is to finalize the approval of the PUD
and provide documentation for the recordation of a Final Plat(s) to be
submitted to complete the development of the PUD.
   B.   Submittal Requirements. An FDP application shall include the following
additional information:
      1.   All materials and information required for a Final Plat.
      2.   A list of all conditions of approval of the PDP and a statement of
how each condition was addressed on the FDP.
      3.   All of the items required for a site plan as set out in Appendix A,
Site Plan Submittal Requirements, and the following information pertinent to
the PUD:
         a.   The approved specific density, including the specific densities
assigned to individual phases in a phased PUD.
         b.   Required setbacks along all street frontages and any build-to
lines or other special building setback or spacing provisions within the
interior of the development.
         c.   A list of all approved and specifically excluded uses, including
the areas in which such uses are allowed or excluded. All uses shall be
classified as provided in this Title, or, if alternative classifications are
used, they shall be defined and justified.
         d.   A final narrative describing all aspects of the final PUD, to be
incorporated by reference, along with the FDP, into the ordinance establishing
the PUD district.
         e.   Proposed building footprints, or envelopes, for all buildings and
major structures, excluding single-family dwellings.
         f.   Sidewalks, pedestrian ways, trails, and associated structures.
         g.   Drainage facilities and stormwater best management practice
improvements.
         h.   Open space and other amenities.
         i.   Major utility locations and easements.
         j.   All other improvements that reflect significant aspects of the
approval of the PUD.
      4.   A development schedule for all private and commonly-owned site
improvements, including, but not limited to, circulation networks, curbs and
gutters, signage and street and trail lighting.
   C.   Process.
      1.   The FDP shall be processed as set out in Section
11-9-8, Zoning Map Amendment (Rezoning).
      2.   Upon City Council approval of an FDP, the PUD shall be established
by ordinance and all of the “Final Form” plans and narrative submitted with the
FDP shall be incorporated by reference into the ordinance to govern the
development of the PUD.
   D.   Effect of Approval.
      1.   Upon approval of the FDP, a Final Plat and all related agreements
shall be executed and shall be recorded by the County Clerk of Tulsa County.
      2.   Applications involving site plans, Zoning Clearance Permits, and
building permits, consistent with the FDP, may then be filed, approved, and
permits issued to implement the FDP.
      3.   Any property owner association created to administer the common land
in the PUD shall be incorporated. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-9-12 MAJOR PUD AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Applicability. Section
11-9-4, Minor PUD Amendments, sets out criteria for Minor PUD Amendments that
may be approved administratively. Any amendment that does not meet the Minor
PUD Amendment criteria is considered to be a Major PUD Amendment.
   B.   Process. The process for any Major Amendment shall be governed by
whichever element of the PUD would be amended:
      1.   CDP, PDP and FDP Major Amendments. An applicant proposing to amend
an approved CDP, PDP, or FDP shall file an application and plans that clearly
depict the areas to be amended, both as they were originally approved and as
they are proposed to be revised. Rationale for the revision shall be provided.
If the narrative of the PUD is proposed to be amended, the original text that
is affected shall be highlighted and the proposed changes noted. All of the
normal processes and procedures for a CDP, PDP, or FDP shall be followed, as
applicable, including notice and public hearings by the Planning Commission and
City Council. The PUD process to which the amendment pertains shall be
followed.
      2.   Amendments to an Approved PUD. When a PUD has completed the entire
zoning and platting processes and is recorded, the amendment process will
typically require a revised FDP and an amended Final Plat, provided that the
spirit and intent of the revised PUD is similar to the original PUD. If the
applicant proposes a new PUD direction, the applicant shall file a CDP to
determine if the City is receptive to the new PUD direction and to allow the
City an opportunity to determine if the change warrants PDP and FDP approvals
or only FDP approval. The CDP also allows the City an opportunity to determine
the subdivision plat approvals that are necessary.
   C.   Review Criteria. The review criteria for any Major PUD Amendment shall
be the same as that used in the original review and approval of the PUD. The
City is not obligated to amend the PUD but may consider an amendment if the
original spirit and intent of the PUD is not adversely affected. (Ord. 746, 11-
14-2017)
11-9-13: SPECIFIC USE PERMIT (SUP):
   A.   General. As used in this Title, Specific Use Permit (SUP) refers to a
permit granted by the City Council within any zoning district of the City where
a Specific Use Permit is required, as set out in Chapter 3, Zoning Districts
and Map, and subject to any applicable conditions or requirements set out in
Chapter 3, Subchapter 3, Specific and Limited Uses. A Specific Use Permit may
be granted only after due notice and a City Council public hearing, and
following review and recommendations by the City Planner and a public hearing
and recommendation to City Council by the Planning Commission.
   B.   Purpose. This Title requires a Specific Use Permit to authorize certain
uses which, because of the nature and characteristics of those uses, may
potentially have adverse impacts on surrounding properties. The SUP process
allows the City to evaluate the merits of each proposed specific use on the
basis of its particular location and context and a site plan, to ensure that
the specific use, if authorized, will be operated in a manner that is
compatible with the surrounding uses.
   C.   Application Requirements. The procedures required for application,
review and consideration of an SUP application include the following:
      1.   Prior to submitting an application, the applicant shall meet with
City staff and conduct a TAC conference. Minutes of the TAC shall be taken by
the City, provided to the applicant, and shall become a permanent part of the
application, should an application be filed, or filed in the official records
of the City Planner if an application is not filed.
      2.   The applicant shall submit the following to the City Planner:
         a.   An SUP application and application fee.
         b.   A set of preliminary site plans, drawn to scale, showing the
location of buildings, parking and other pertinent data concerning operation of
the proposed use, and other details, such as, but not limited to, a Plan of
Operation, to demonstrate that the proposed use will be compatible with
surrounding properties.
         c.   Through a registered bonded abstract company or a licensed title
insurance company, a list of property owners and their mailing addresses,
within a 300 foot radius of the outer boundaries of the subject property, as
well as addressed adhesive envelope labels for all such property owners and
administrative fees associated with the of mailing notice and posting signage.
   D.   Procedural Requirements. In accordance with Title 11, Oklahoma
Statutes, Sections 43-113, 43-114, 45-106 and 43-109.1, the requirements set
out below govern the SUP process:
      1.   The Planning Commission, after conducting a public hearing, and upon
receipt of recommendations from the City Planner and TAC, and written public
comments, shall make a recommendation to approve, conditionally approve or deny
the SUP. Conditions of approval shall be applied as necessary, as set out in
Subsection E, Conditions of Approval, below.
      2.   The City Council, after conducting a public hearing, and upon
receipt of recommendations from the Planning Commission, City Planner, and TAC,
and written public comments, shall take action to approve, conditionally
approve or deny the SUP. Conditions of approval shall be applied as necessary,
as set out in Subsection E, Conditions of Approval, below.
      3.   The Commission and Council may, in the interest of the public
welfare and to ensure compliance with the intent of this Title and the
Comprehensive Plan, require such conditions, development standards and
operational conditions as necessary, as set out in Subsection E, Conditions of
Approval, below.
   E.   Conditions of Approval. Development standards and operational
conditions and safeguards may be required by the City as follows:
      1.   Conditions shall be reasonably related to the proposed use,
including, but not limited to, other permitted uses, lot sizes, setback, height
limits, required facilities, buffers, open space areas, lighting, signage,
landscaping, parking and loading, compatibility, land use density, and such
other development standards and operational conditions necessary for the
protection of adjacent property and the community.
      2.   If determined to be appropriate, the City may require the platting
of the property and/or require the dedication of easements, or a half right-of-
way for a substandard street or a street designated on the Major Street and
Highway Plan, to further the public good.
      3.   Conditions may be applied to ensure that the use is not detrimental
to the health, safety and welfare of the City and based on the valid exercise
of statutory police powers.
      4.   Conditions may relate to the standards and regulations established
in this Title and other codes and ordinances of the City.
      5.   Findings used as the basis for imposing conditions to approve an SUP
shall be stated in the written record of such actions. The City Clerk shall
maintain a record of conditions and any subsequent amendments thereto.
      6.   Such conditions need not be uniform with regard to each type of land
use if equitable processes and procedures, and statutory requirements,
recognizing due process principles and avoiding arbitrary decisions have been
followed in making regulatory decisions.
   F.    Notice.
      1.   The City shall use the list of property owners and address labels
provided by the applicant to notify such property owners of the required public
hearing, by mail, in the manner required by 11 Oklahoma Statutes Section 43-
106, for public hearings for proposed zoning changes. The applicant shall be
responsible for all postage and administrative costs associated with notice.
      2.   The City shall publish legal notice of the required public hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation in the City not less than 20 days, nor
more than 30 days, prior to the public hearing. Publication arrangements will
be made by the City, and the applicant shall be responsible for the expense of
such publication.
      3.   SUP notice signs shall be posted on the subject property by the City
and will include, as a minimum, the nature of the proposed specific use, the
identity of the property owner, the dates of the public hearings, and City
Planner contact information, at least 20 days prior to the initial public
hearing.
   G.   Appeals. Any suit to challenge any action, decision, ruling or order of
either the Planning Commission or City Council under provisions of this Section
shall be filed with the Tulsa County District Court within 30 business days
from the action, decision, ruling or order being challenged. (Ord. 746, 11-14-
2017)
11-9-14: LIMITED USE AND SITE PLAN REFERRALS:
   A.   General. A request proposing a limited use or a site plan may be
referred to the Planning Commission when:
      1.   The City Planner determines that discretion is required as to the
appropriateness and level of conformity of the site plan with the standards for
a limited use or compliance with all applicable requirements of this Title.
      2.   An applicant requests an alternative method to comply with the
spirit and intent of the regulations of this Title.
      3.   An applicant appeals the decision of the City Planner or TAC to deny
a site plan.
Requests referred to the Planning Commission shall be heard by the Commission
within 45 days of the referral date. Notice and publication is not required,
but rather general notice as an item of consideration on the Commission agenda.
   B.   Commission Action. Upon referral, the Planning Commission shall:
      1.   Review the request for its conformance with the standards and
requirements of this Title and its consistency with the policies and objectives
of this Title and the Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   Seek input and recommendations from the City Planner.
      3.   Assess whether an alternative method of compliance is satisfactory
to satisfy requirements of this Title.
      4.   Determine if the request satisfies all of the applicable limited use
requirements and if any other conditions should be imposed to address issues to
ensure that the use is compatible with surrounding properties.
      5.   Review the issues that were the basis for the denial, or referral of
the site plan, and uphold or overturn the decision of the City Planner or TAC,
or find a satisfactory alternative solution to the issue agreeable to all
parties.
      6.   Render decisions in the interest of promoting the public health,
safety, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare, compatibility
between different land uses, and the fair and equitable application of this
Title.
The Commission may grant a continuance if, during the course of considering a
request, the Commission finds that proper action cannot be made without
additional information. The Commission is authorized to request that the
applicant submit such reasonable additional information and withhold further
action on the application. Decisions of the Planning Commission shall be final.
(Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-9-15: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT:
   A.   Purpose. Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan or any element of the
Comprehensive Plan shall only be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing coordinated and harmonious development of the City.
   B.   Applicability. The Comprehensive Plan includes goal and objective
statements and establishes policies and guidelines and land use and
transportation recommendations that assist City staff, the Planning Commission,
and City Council in administering, reviewing, and evaluating development
proposals.
   C.   Plan Implementation. This Title is written to reflect the intent and
purposes of the Comprehensive Plan and to implement the goals, objectives,
policies, and guidelines set out therein.
   D.   Comprehensive Plan Amendments. Following are the two types of
Comprehensive Plan Amendments for the purposes of this Title:
      1.   Amendment to a Plan Map. An amendment to any adopted Comprehensive
Plan Map may be proposed by the City Council, Planning Commission, City staff,
or property owners.
      2.   Amendment to Plan Text. Amendments to the text of the plan may be
proposed by the City Council, Planning Commission, City staff, any resident of
the City, or property owners.
   E.   Criteria for Review of Comprehensive Plan Amendments. The Planning
Commission and City Council shall consider the criteria of this Subsection in
determining if proposed amendments should be approved.
      1.   Amendment to a Plan Map. Sufficient evidence must be provided to
demonstrate that the Plan Map amendment meets the following criteria:
         a.   The amendment is compatible with existing or planned land uses on
adjacent properties.
         b.   Adequate public utilities, facilities, and services are
available, or proposed to be extended, to warrant an amendment.
         c.   An amendment is warranted by changing conditions in the area or
corrects an error when the map was originally adopted.
         d.   Addresses a currently unaddressed need of the City.
      2.   Amendment to Plan Text. Sufficient evidence must be provided to
demonstrate that a text amendment will:
         a.   Further the goals, objectives, and policies of the Comprehensive
Plan.
         b.   Advance a legitimate public need.
         c.   Respond to changing conditions or a currently unaddressed need of
the City.
   F.   Amendment Procedures. Any amendment to the Comprehensive Plan shall
follow all statutory requirements and procedures governing the adoption of the
Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT ACTIONS
11-9-16: ZONING INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   The Board of Adjustment shall interpret the text of this Title and the
Official Zoning Map upon an appeal from a determination of the City Planner.
   B.   Where a question arises as to the zoning district classification of a
particular use, the Board, upon written request of the City Planner, may find
and determine the classification of the use in question and may, prior to such
determination, order the requirement of notice and a public hearing, as
prescribed for a variance application in this Subchapter. (Ord. 746, 11-14-
2017)
11-9-17: APPEALS:
   A.   Right to Appeal. An appeal to the Board of Adjustment may be filed by
any person aggrieved or by an officer or Department of the City where it is
alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination of
the City Planner, Building Official or other official in the enforcement of
this Title.
   B.   Time for Appeal; Investigation. An appeal shall be filed within 10 days
from the determination that is the subject of the appeal by filing the
appropriate application with the City Planner, Building Official or City Clerk
and specifying the grounds for the appeal. The City Planner and Building
Official, or other official, upon receipt of the application, shall transmit to
the City Clerk certified copies of all the papers constituting the record of
said matter. Upon receipt of the record, the City Clerk shall cause an
investigation to be made and shall set the matter for public hearing.
   C.   Board Action.
      1.   The Board, after conducting a public hearing, may reverse or affirm,
wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end, shall have all the powers
of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      2.   The Board shall make its decision within 30 days after the public
hearing. The decision shall be in writing and filed in the Official Records of
the City by the City Clerk. The concurring vote of three members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the City Planner, Building Official or other official. A
decision of the Board shall not become final until the expiration of 15 days
from the date such decision is made, unless the Board shall find the immediate
taking of said decision is necessary for the preservation of property or
personal rights and shall so certify on the record.
   D.   Stay of Proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action from which appealed, unless the City Planner, Building Official or
other official from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal was filed, that, by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order granted by the Board or by a Court of proper jurisdiction on
due and sufficient cause shown.
   E.   Written Findings of Fact. The Board shall file with the City Clerk
written findings of fact that were the basis for the approval or denial of the
appeal. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-9-18: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority; Restrictions.
      1.   The Board of Adjustment, upon application, statutory notice, and
public hearing, and subject to the procedural and substantive standards
hereinafter set forth, may grant a variance from the terms of this Title.
      2.   The applicant shall be responsible for all postage and
administrative costs associated with the provision of statutory notice.
      3.   Variances shall not be detrimental to surrounding properties or the
public good or be contrary to the spirit, purposes and intent of this Title or
the Comprehensive Plan.
      4.   Variances shall be based on site specific factors unique to a lot or
parcel that are atypical from other surrounding properties, such as, but not
limited to, reasons of lot width, depth, shape, topography, or other
extraordinary or exceptional situation, condition, or circumstance peculiar to
a property and not created by any actions of the applicant.
      5.   The condition shall cause the literal enforcement of this Title to
result in an unnecessary hardship.
      6.   The Board shall not take any action that effectively results in
allowing a use not permitted in the zoning district.
   B.   Variance Application.
      1.   A request for a variance shall be initiated by the filing of an
application with the City Planner and shall be set for public hearing by the
City Clerk in accordance with all statutory requirements.
      2.   The variance application shall include:
         a.   A site plan, drawn to scale, showing location of buildings,
parking and other pertinent data concerning the variance.
         b.   Findings of fact, as set out in Subsection C, Findings; Board
Actions; Conditions, demonstrating the hardship and factors that prevent the
development of the property in accordance with this Title.
         c.   Through a registered bonded abstract company or a licensed title
insurance company, a list of property owners and their mailing addresses,
within a 300 foot radius of the outer boundaries of the subject property, as
well as addressed adhesive envelope labels for all such property owners and
administrative fees associated with the mailing of notice.
   C.   Findings; Board Action; Conditions. The Board shall hold the public
hearing and, upon the concurring vote of three members, may grant a variance
after finding:
      1.   That, by reasons of extraordinary or exceptional conditions or
circumstances which are peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved,
the literal enforcement of the terms of this Title would result in unnecessary
hardship.
      2.   That such extraordinary or exceptional conditions or circumstances
do not apply generally to other property in the same use district.
      3.   That the variance will not be detrimental to the public good or
adversely affect the use or value of surrounding properties and will not impair
the purposes, spirit and intent of this Title or the Comprehensive Plan.
      4.   The condition for which the variance is requested was not created by
any actions of the applicant.
The Board, in granting a variance, may prescribe appropriate conditions and
safeguards and may require such evidence and guarantee or bond as it may deem
necessary to enforce compliance with the conditions attached.
   D.   Time Limit on Variances. A variance which has not been utilized within
one year from the date of the order granting the variance shall thereafter be
void. For the purpose of this Subsection, “utilization” shall mean actual use,
the issuance of a building permit or a Certificate of Occupancy, or any other
condition of time imposed by the Board, provided construction, or other
improvements that were the subject of the variance, are diligently carried to
completion.
   E.   Written Findings of Fact. The Board shall file with the City Clerk
written findings of fact that were the basis for the approval or denial of the
variance application. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-9-19: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   General. The Board of Adjustment, upon application, statutory notice,
and a public hearing, may grant a Special Exception in the following
circumstances, subject to the procedural and substantive standards set forth
herein:
      1.   Special exception uses as designated and regulated within the
Industrial Moderate (IM) zoning district, and subject to such uses conforming
to the bulk and area requirements of the IM district, or as such requirements
are made more restrictive by any conditions of approval imposed by the Board of
Adjustment as set forth in Subsection C., below.
      2.   The change of a nonconforming use, as provided in Section
11-10-3, Nonconforming Uses.
      3.   The restoration of a partially destroyed structure containing a
nonconforming use, as set out in Section
11-10-3, Nonconforming Uses.
      4.   The restoration of a partially destroyed nonconforming structure, as
set out in Section
11-10-5, Structural Nonconformities.
   B.   Application for Special Exception.
      1.   A request for a Special Exception shall be initiated by the filing
of an application with the City Planner and shall be set for public hearing by
the City Clerk, in accordance with statutory requirements.
      2.   Through a registered bonded abstract company or a licensed title
insurance company, a list of property owners and their mailing addresses,
within a 300 foot radius of the outer boundaries of the subject property, as
well as addressed adhesive envelope labels for all such property owners and
administrative fees associated with the mailing of notice.
   C.   Board Action; Conditions. The Board of Adjustment, upon holding a
public hearing, and, upon the concurring vote of three members, may grant a
Special Exception after finding that the Special Exception will be in harmony
with the spirit and intent of this Title and will not be injurious to
surrounding properties or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare. The
Board, in granting a Special Exception, may prescribe appropriate conditions
and safeguards and may require such evidence and guarantee or bonds as it may
deem necessary to enforce compliance with the conditions attached.
   D.   Time Limit on Special Exceptions. A Special Exception which has not
been utilized within one year of the date on which it was granted shall
thereafter be void. For the purpose of this Subsection, “utilization” shall
mean actual use or the issuance of a building permit, or a Certificate of
Occupancy, when applicable, or any other condition of time imposed by the
Board, provided construction is diligently carried to completion.
   E.   Written Findings of Fact. The Board shall file with the City Clerk
written findings of fact that were the basis for the approval or denial of the
Special Exception application. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
Purpose And Applicability
11-10-1: Preamble
11-10-2: Application
Classification Of Nonconformities
11-10-3: Nonconforming Uses
11-10-4: Nonconforming Lots
11-10-5: Structural Nonconformities
11-10-6: Repairs and Maintenance
PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
11-10-1: PREAMBLE:
Within the districts established by this Title, and by subsequent amendments,
there exist uses, lots, structures, and signs that were lawfully established
but that would not be permitted under this Title, or future amendment to this
Title. These uses, lots, structures, and signs are referred to in this Chapter
as legal nonconformities that are permitted to continue, as regulated by this
Chapter. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-10-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   Generally. This Chapter applies to uses, accessory uses, lots,
buildings, structures, landscaping and buffering, signs, lighting, and parking
that were lawfully created or constructed but that do not conform to the
requirements of this Title.
   B.   Effect of Section. Nothing in this Chapter, or in this Title, shall be
interpreted to require a change in plans, construction, or a designated use of
any building for which a building permit was lawfully obtained prior to the
effective date of this Title, or subsequent amendment, provided that
construction:
      1.   Commences within the period of time authorized by Title 10, Building
and Development; and
      2.   The work proceeds diligently toward completion.
   C.   Changes of Ownership. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to
affect or restrict changes in ownership, nor shall changes in ownership affect
the application of any of the requirements of this Chapter.
   D.   Destruction of a Legal Nonconforming Use, Building, or Structure. If a
legally nonconforming building or structure, or a legally nonconforming use
located in a legally conforming or nonconforming structure, is damaged or
partially destroyed to the extent of more than 50 percent, but less than 75
percent, of its current replacement cost at the time of damage, the restoration
of the building or structure, and the use, shall be subject to Board of
Adjustment findings in consideration of a Special Exception, that restoration
is necessary for the continuance of the nonconforming use, and will not result
in any increase of incompatibility with the present and future use of proximate
properties. Should the structure containing a nonconforming use be damaged or
destroyed to the extent of more than 75 percent of its replacement cost at the
time of damage, the nonconformity shall not thereafter be continued or resumed.
   E.   Evidence of Status. Evidence that a nonconforming situation is a legal
nonconformity and not a violation of this Chapter shall be submitted by the
owner of the property, or use, upon the request of the City.
   F.   Exceptions.
      1.   Unlawful Uses, Lots, Buildings, Structures, or Signs. This Section
does not allow for the perpetuation of uses, lots, buildings, structures, or
signs that were unlawfully established or constructed. Such improvements are
not legally nonconforming, but instead are unlawful, and may be subject to
Chapter 11, Enforcement and Remedies, or any other applicable law.
      2.   Natural Shifts of Zone Boundaries. If a zoning boundary changes as a
result of a change in the location of a stream channel centerline, or other
natural occurrences, such change of zoning district boundary does not render
existing development as nonconforming.
      3.   Nonconformities Created by Public Action. Any nonconforming land,
building, structure, or sign expressly created, or caused, by the conveyance of
privately owned land to a federal, state or local government to serve a public
purpose, such as but not limited to right-of-way for highways, is conforming
for the purposes of this Title, and is not subject to the limitations of this
Chapter. This exemption applies only in cases where private land is obtained by
a governmental entity for a public purpose, through condemnation, threat of
condemnation, or otherwise, which creates a nonconformity for the remainder
parcel in terms of lot size, setback, or other applicable standards of this
Title. This exemption does not apply to right-of-way dedication or other public
conveyances of land required by the City in the course of subdivision or other
development approvals. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
CLASSIFICATION OF NONCONFORMITIES
11-10-3: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Generally. A nonconforming use is a use of land lawfully established
before the effective date of this Title, or amendments hereto, which is no
longer allowed.
      1.   Any use lawfully established, but that is not a permitted, limited,
specific, or temporary use, as set out in Chapter 3, is a legally nonconforming
use.
      2.   Lawfully established uses that do not comply with parking, loading,
screening, buffering, sign, or any other development regulation, which are
otherwise lawful, shall not constitute a nonconforming use within the meanings
established in this Chapter.
   B.   Standards.
      1.   Change in Use.
         a.   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to another nonconforming
use.
         b.   A nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use, thereby
precluding the resumption of the nonconforming use.
         c.   If the use of a portion of a building or property is changed from
a nonconforming use to a conforming use, that portion of the building or
property may not be changed back to the nonconforming use.
      2.   Discontinuance of Use. If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a
period of one year, for any reason, it shall not be resumed.
      3.   Nonconforming Use of Unimproved Land (Aggregate Area No More than 10
Percent). Upon the effective date of this Title, if a lawful use of land exists
which would not be permitted by this Title, and the only structures used in
connection with such use are all accessory or incidental to such use and do not
have an aggregate area that covers more than 10 percent of the lot area, such
use shall be deemed a nonconforming use of unimproved land and shall be
terminated as follows:
         a.   If the replacement cost of the accessory structures, other than
fences, is less than $1,000.00, the nonconforming use shall terminate within
five years of the effective date hereof, or of the date on which the use became
nonconforming, whichever is later.
         b.   If the replacement cost of the accessory structures, other than
fences, is $1,000.00 or more, the nonconforming use shall be terminated on the
basis of amortization of the replacement cost of the structures at an annual
rate of $200.00, from the effective date hereof, or from the date on which the
use became nonconforming, whichever is later.
         c.   Pending termination, the nonconforming use of land may be
continued, provided that:
            (1)   The nonconforming use is not changed to another nonconforming
use, enlarged, or extended to occupy a greater area of land than that which was
occupied at the effective date hereof.
            (2)   The nonconforming use is not moved, in whole or in part, to
any portion of the lot other than that occupied by such use at the effective
date hereof.
            (3)   No additional structure, other than fences, shall be erected.
            (4)   If the nonconforming use ceases for any reason for a period
of more than 90 days, except when government action impedes access to or use of
the premises, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to this Title.
      4.   Nonconforming Use of Buildings and Improved Land (Aggregate Area 10
Percent or Less). Upon the effective date of this Title, if there exists a
lawful use of a building, a principal building and land, or the use of land
with accessory structures, and such use has an aggregate area that covers more
than 10 percent of the lot area, and such use would not be permitted by this
Title, such use shall be deemed nonconforming and may continue, provided that:
         a.   No building devoted to a nonconforming use shall be enlarged or
extended, except to change the use of the building to a permitted use.
         b.   The nonconforming use of a portion of a building may not be
extended to the remaining portions of the building, unless such portions were
manifestly arranged and designed for such use. In no case shall the conformity
be extended to occupy any land outside the building.
         c.   A former nonconforming use of a building, or building and land in
combination, once superseded by a permitted use, shall not be changed back to
the former nonconforming use.
         d.   A nonconforming use of a building, or building and land in
combination, if discontinued for 12 consecutive months, or for 12 months during
any 18 month period, except when governmental action impedes access to or the
use of the premises, shall not thereafter be resumed.
         e.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a building and land
used in combination, the termination of the use of the building shall eliminate
the nonconforming status of the use of the land. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-10-4: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
   A.   Single Lots. In any district in which single-family dwellings are
permitted, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
Title, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be
erected on any single lot of record at the effective date hereof or amendment
hereto. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage
with other lots in the same ownership. This Subsection shall apply, without
regard for compliance with the requirements for lot area or width, or both,
that are generally applicable in the district; provided that yard dimensions
and other requirements not involving lot area or width, or both, shall conform
to the regulations for the district in which the lot is located.
   B.   Adjoining Lots. If two or more adjoining lots with continuous frontage
are in a single ownership after the effective date hereof, or amendment hereto,
and such lots individually do not meet the applicable development standards of
the district in which they are located, such groups of lots shall be considered
as a single lot, or as multiple lots, of the minimum permitted size in
compliance with applicable development standards of this Title and applicable
permitting and platting requirements of Titles 10 and 12, respectively.
   C.   Uses Permitted By Right. In districts other than residential districts,
any use permitted by right in the applicable district may be located on any lot
of official record at the effective date hereof, irrespective of its area or
width, provided that the use complies with all other requirements of the
district. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-10-5: STRUCTURAL NONCONFORMITIES:
A lawfully established building or structure which is prohibited by the terms
of this Title, by reason of restrictions on floor area, density, intensity,
height, setbacks, location, or other development standards of this Title, shall
be deemed to be legally nonconforming and may continue, subject to the
following:
   A.   No such nonconforming building or structure may be enlarged or altered
in any manner which increases its nonconformity, but may be altered to decrease
its nonconformity, provided that the addition of a mezzanine or a similar
alteration does not increase the cubic content of the structure and thereby
cause an increase in nonconformity.
   B.   Should such a building or structure be damaged or partially destroyed
by any means to the extent of more than 50 percent of its current replacement
cost at the time of damage, the restoration of a nonconforming building or
structure shall be subject to Board of Adjustment findings, in consideration of
a Special Exception, that its restoration to a conforming structure cannot
reasonably be made in view of the nature and extent of the nonconformity and
the nature and extent of the damages. If the building or structure is damaged
or destroyed to the extent of more than 75 percent of its replacement cost at
the time of damage, the nonconformity shall not thereafter be continued or
reconstructed.
   C.   Should such a building or structure be moved or relocated in the City,
it shall be sited to conform to the regulations of the district in which it
will be located.
   D.   Restrictions regulating nonconforming signs are set out in Chapter 7,
Signs, Section
11-7-5.D, Nonconforming Signs. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-10-6: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Minor repairs to or maintenance of a legal nonconformity necessary to
keep the use, lot, structure, building, or other legal nonconformities in a
safe condition are permitted, provided that the minor repair or maintenance
does not increase the extent of the nonconformity. For purposes of this
section, minor repair or maintenance shall mean:
      1.   Repairs necessary to correct any damage or deterioration to the
structural soundness or interior appearance of a building or structure without
expanding or altering the building or structure;
      2.   Maintenance of property and uses to protect against health and
environmental hazards and promote the safety of surrounding land uses; and
      3.   Repairs that are required to remedy unsafe conditions that cause a
threat to public safety.
   B.   If a nonconforming structure or a structure containing a nonconforming
use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs and
maintenance, and a final order of vacation or demolition is entered by the
Building Official by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be
used, restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity with the provisions
of the district in which it is located. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 11
ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES
SECTION:
Enforcement
11-11-1: Purpose
11-11-2: Enforcement Procedures and Remedies
11-11-3: Violations And Penalties
Remedies
11-11-4: Civil Liability
11-11-5: Criminal
Appendix A
Appendix A.1: Landscape Plan Requirements
Appendix A.2: Site Plan Requirements
ENFORCEMENT
11-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to set out the general procedures for enforcing
the requirements of this Title and outline the legal remedies that are
generally available to the City when it initiates an enforcement action.
Nothing in this Chapter is intended to limit the remedies that are available to
the City to prevent and abate violations of this Title, or to prescribe any
particular remedy. The City may take any lawful action to remedy violations of
this Title, including seeking any remedy and/or imposing any penalty that is
available under this Title, the City Code, state law or administrative rules
promulgated thereunder, or federal law within the corporate boundary of the
City, as appropriate. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-11-2: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Generally. The City may enforce the provisions of this Title as set out
in this Chapter or as otherwise authorized by law.
   B.   Responsible Official. The Director of Community Development, or his
designee, shall administer and enforce the provisions of this Title. The
Director may consult with the Building Official, City Planner, City Manager,
and City Attorney in the exercise of this duty.
   C.   Records. The City shall maintain a record of all complaints of
violations of this Title, including how they were resolved.
   D.   Right to Enter. The City shall investigate and find as a matter of fact
whether an alleged violation of this Title has occurred. Any person authorized
by the City for such investigation shall have the right to enter any premises
at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inspection of buildings,
property, or premises necessary to carry out the duty to enforce this Title.
   E.   Filing a Complaint. Any person may allege a violation of this Title by
written and signed complaint filed with the City Planner or Building Official.
Such complaint shall state the factual basis for the alleged violation along
with the complainant’s name, address, and telephone number.
   F.   Notice of Violation. Upon investigation, with or without a complaint,
the City may issue a written Notice of Violation alleging the existence of a
violation of this Title, including violations of conditions of approval
established in connection with the granting of variances, special exceptions,
specific use permits, zoning approvals, or any other aspect of the Title.
At a minimum, the Notice of Violation shall:
      1.   Specify the address of the property where the violation is alleged.
      2.   Reference specific Sections of this Title and/or conditions of a
development approval which are alleged to have been violated.
      3.   State the actions that must be taken to bring the property or use
into compliance with this Title, including:
         a.   Specifying a time frame, not to exceed 30 days, to bring the
property or use into compliance with this Title. An extension may be granted by
the City if the property owner is diligently working toward a resolution. The
City reserves the right to deny an extension to repeat violators.
         b.   Advising that a citation or summons may be issued if the property
or use is not brought into compliance with this Title within the stated time
frame.
         c.   Providing contact information for a person or department at the
City that can answer questions about the notice.
      4.   Be served to the owner, occupant, operator, lessee, agent or other
responsible party in person, provided that such Notice of Violation is also
properly served to the responsible party by certified mail to the last known
mailing address, residence, or place of business of the responsible party. The
postmark date of the certified letter shall constitute the date on which Notice
of Violation was served.
   G.   Informal Dispute Resolution.
      1.   Generally. Written warnings may be issued by the City to notify a
property owner, or other relevant persons, of an alleged violation of this
Title and the actions necessary to bring the property or use into compliance.
Subject to the limitations of Subsection 2, below, and the discretion of the
City, warnings are the preferred method of assuring compliance with this Title.
      2.   Limitations. Issuance of a written warning shall not be necessary
if:
         a.   During the previous 24 months, the property owner has been warned
of, cited for, or summoned to court for the same violation.
         b.   The violation is likely to create an imminent hazard to life or
property.
   H.   Correction of Violation.
      1.   For a first violation, the person responsible for the violation
shall have a period of 30 days to correct the violation.
      2.   For subsequent or continued violations, the person responsible for
the violation shall correct the violation within 24 hours, unless the City
prescribes additional time.
      3.   Any violation that creates an immediate danger to the public safety
or health shall be corrected immediately, regardless of whether it is a first
violation, a continuing violation, or a subsequent violation.
   I.   Further Enforcement. If the violation is not corrected in accordance
with the requirements of Subsection H., above, the City may proceed with
available means for enforcing this Title.
   J.   Immediate Orders and Immediate Actions.
      1.   Generally. As provided in this Chapter, the City may issue immediate
orders or take other immediate actions as necessary to halt violations of this
Title, to prevent activities that cause violations or exacerbate violations of
this Title, and to remedy violations of this Title. These orders and actions
may be appealed as set out in Section
11-9-17, Appeals.
      2.   Removal of Temporary Signs. The City may immediately remove, or
cause to be removed, temporary signs that are placed in violation of Chapter 7,
Signs.
   K.   Relationship to Other Enforcement Procedures. The City may pursue any
and all lawful remedies, separately or concurrently, to effect compliance with
an issued Notice of Violation or warning, including issuance of immediate
orders and prosecution of violations as criminal offenses. If a recipient of a
Notice of Violation, warning, or immediate order does not take timely action as
specified by the City and does not timely request administrative review
pursuant to this Chapter, then the City may proceed with available means for
enforcing this Title. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-11-3: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Generally.
      1.   Any person, firm, or corporation that has been found to have
violated any of the provisions of this Title, is:
         a.   Guilty of a misdemeanor; and
         b.   Subject to a fine and/or imprisonment, as allowed by applicable
state statutes.
      2.   Each day that any violation or noncompliance with the provisions of
this Title occurs shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be
subject to a fine, as allowed by applicable state statutes.
      3.   The penalties prescribed in this Chapter may be imposed upon:
         a.   The owner of a building or premises in or upon which a violation
of this Title was committed.
         b.   The lessee or tenant of an entire building or entire premises, in
or upon which a violation of the Title was committed.
         c.   An agent, architect, building contractor, or any other person,
firm, or corporation that participated, facilitated, assisted, or took any part
in any violation of this Title.
         d.   Any person, firm, or corporation that maintained any building or
premises in or upon which a violation of this Title was committed.
      4.   The penalties provided herein shall be cumulative of other remedies
provided by state law.
      5.   The power of injunction may be exercised by the City in enforcing
this Title.
   B.   Payment of Fines. Fines that are imposed shall be payable to the City
not later than 30 days after the date on which action affirming the violation
of this Title is concluded.
   C.   Collection of Fines. Assessed fines may be collected by the City by any
means allowed by law. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
REMEDIES
11-11-4: CIVIL LIABILITY:
   A.   Manner of Collection. The procedure for the issuance of Notices of
Violation, collection of fines, and trial with respect to disputed or
unsatisfied notices shall be that prescribed in state law.
   B.   Duty of Local Officials.
      1.   The City has the authority to issue an original Notice of Violation
and deliver it to a person believed to be committing a civil violation, and the
City’s designated personnel are hereby declared to be the officials with the
duty of enforcing this Title for that purpose.
      2.   The City Planner and Building Official are jointly declared to be
the officials with the duty of enforcing this Title with respect to:
         a.   Receiving and filing a copy of each original Notice of Violation
and any fines or notices of intention to stand trial.
         b.   Mailing formal notices of the violation to persons who do not
give notice of intention to stand trial or pay the established fine within the
time set in the notice.
         c.   Notifying the court of competent jurisdiction of any notice of
intention to stand trial or any request for adjudication when a fine is not
paid after the City has given formal notice thereof.
   C.   Court Appearance. The person who issued the initial Notice of Violation
and any other members of the City so directed by the City Manager or City
Attorney shall appear and testify in any trial held with respect to the notice.
   D.   City Attorney. The City Attorney is authorized to prosecute any civil
violation. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
11-11-5: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
   A.   Generally. The violation and/or failure to comply with any of the
provisions of this Title shall be and is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor.
Upon conviction, any person in violation of, or showing failure to comply with,
any of the provisions of this Title may be punished by a fine or imprisonment,
or both, as prescribed by state law, for each week, or portion thereof, that
the violation or noncompliance has continued.
   B.   Responsible Parties. Every person concerned in the violation of, or
showing failure to comply with, this Title, whether the person directly commits
the act or aids or abets the same and whether present or absent, shall be
proceeded against and held as a principal. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
APPENDIX A:
A.1: LANDSCAPE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
Landscape plans shall demonstrate compliance with all landscaping and buffering
requirements of this Title by including the information set out below, unless
the City Planner determines that any item(s) are unnecessary due to the type of
development or site conditions. The City Planner may require additional
information, if necessary.
      1.   Proposed topography of the site, shown at one-foot contours.
      2.   Dimensions and surfacing of all existing and proposed easements,
pedestrian walkways, and pedestrian-oriented areas.
      3.   Location of existing and proposed utilities and drainage facilities.
      4.   Location of all proposed site improvements, including curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, parking areas, driveways, landscape areas, buildings, and
an indication of which existing trees will be retained or removed.
      5.   Dimensions, surface area, and type of planting area (e.g.,
bufferyard, parking area landscaping, etc.) for each planting area.
      6.   The location, spacing, and quantity of trees and shrubs to be
installed, which shall be drawn at three-fourths of mature size and annotated
with species, common name, and size at planting.
      7.   The location, spacing and extent of areas of ground cover, flower
beds, raised or inset planters, and turf, seed, or inorganic materials to be
installed or planted.
      8.   Dimensions of all landscape elements, including fences, walls,
earthen berms, other landscape features, and amenities, as applicable.
      9.   Special landscape features for storm water management, such as rain
gardens or bioswales.
      10.   Dimensions and locations of required sight distance triangles.
      11.   Any credits that are requested for preserving existing trees.
      12.   Calculations demonstrating that minimum landscaping requirements
will be met.
      13.   If a phased development project is proposed, a landscaping phasing
program.
      14.   A schematic drawing of the proposed location and type of irrigation
system, or hose bibs.
      15.   Identification of the method of reclamation for repair of cut and
fill areas and other landform disruptions caused by construction.
      16.   A general note stating that “The owner, agent, or developer of the
property shall replace any mandatory landscaping which dies within a one-year
period from the time of planting, and thereafter.”
      17.   The date the plan was prepared, scale, north arrow, project name,
and owner name. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
A.2: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
      1.   Site plans shall be drawn to a scale not less than one inch = 50
feet, titled “Preliminary Site Plan”, and include space for revision numbers
and revision dates to track each update to the site plan.
      2.   The site plan scale drawing, or supporting plan sheets, shall
contain, but not be limited to, the following minimum information, along with
any other information necessary to demonstrate compliance with all applicable
development requirements. This list is not intended to be inclusive of all
details that are required to be submitted with the site plan application:
         a.   Site Design:
            (1)   Driveways, streets, and rights-of-way.
            (2)   Clear sight visibility areas.
            (3)   Surfacing materials.
            (4)   All easements and name of the easement holder.
            (5)   Location and dimensions of structures and signs.
            (6)   Sidewalks, ramps, and accessibility improvements.
            (7)   Off-street parking spaces, accessible spaces, and driveway
aisle dimensions.
            (8)   Tabulation of required / provided off-street parking spaces,
landscaping, open space, etc.
            (9)   Fire lanes, fire hydrants, fire department connection
locations, and a fire coverage plan.
            (10)   Loading and refuse areas.
            (11)   Exterior lighting and a lighting plan.
            (12)   Locations of any proposed outdoor uses.
            (13)   Required bufferyards and screening.
            (14)   Landscaping, both graphically as to size and location, and
in tabular form showing the amount of landscaping required and the amount to be
provided.
            (15)   Topography, including grading, drainage, and stormwater
runoff prevention plan.
            (16)   Soils report and narrative.
            (17)   Adequate trip generation details to determine if the
developer will be responsible for any traffic impact mitigation improvements,
as set out in Title 12, Section
12-4-1, Responsibilities of the Subdivider or Developer.
            (18)   Specific areas proposed for specific types of land uses.
            (19)   Existing and proposed utilities, utility meters, and utility
connections.
            (20)   Lots and property lines.
            (21)   Areas proposed for dedication to the City.
         b.   Building Design Standards:
            (1)   Illustrations and supporting detail to demonstrate how the
standards of Chapter 4, Subchapter 4, Design Standards, will be satisfied,
including with regard to:
               (A)   Required exterior finish materials, and within minimum
required and maximum permitted amounts.
               (B)   Appropriate location and required screening of mechanical
and utility equipment.
               (C)   Required articulation of building walls and rooflines and
use of architectural design features to mitigate building mass, create visual
interest, and avoid monotonous appearance. (Ord. 746, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 12
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
SECTION:
11-12-1: Statutory And Code Authorization, Purposes And Goals
11-12-2: Code Provisions And Standards
11-12-3: Building The PUD Development Plan
11-12-4: Application Requirements For Development Plan
11-12-5: Planning Commission Review
11-12-6: City Council Review
11-12-7: Administration
11-12-8: Site Plan Review
11-12-9: Minor PUD Amendments
11-12-10: Major PUD Amendments
 
11-12-1: STATUTORY AND CODE AUTHORIZATIONS, PURPOSES AND GOALS OF A PUD:
   A.   Planned Unit Development (“PUD”) design and implementation is
authorized by Oklahoma Statutes at Title 11 § 43-110, et seq., the City of
Glenpool Comprehensive Plan, and this Chapter 11 of the Zoning Ordinance with
the purpose of according to the Planning Commission and City Council sufficient
discretion to implement development and design standards that may or may not
conform to residential and/or non-residential standards otherwise applicable in
conventional zoning districts when such deviations serve a benefit to the
community and are offset by considerations that may equal or exceed standards
elsewhere in the Code.
   B.   PUD requirements are intended to permit the applicant maximum
flexibility in the regulation of land development; encourage innovation in land
use and variety in design; lay out the type of structures to be constructed;
achieve efficiency in the use of land, natural resources, and energy; provide
for public services and utilities; encourage useful, common open space; and
provide better housing, employment and shopping opportunities particularly
suited to the needs of the residents of the City of Glenpool and most
especially those within and in proximity to the proposed PUD than otherwise
available.
   C.   It is the intent of a PUD that permissive latitude in the imposition of
site plan and design standards, when offset by beneficial concessions from the
applicant, serve a greater good than could be accomplished on the same property
if subject to the limitations of a traditional zoning district. (Ord. 788, 6-
21-2021)
11-12-2: CODE PROVISIONS AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   A PUD Application may more correctly be understood as an application
for a Zoning Map Amendment (Rezoning) as set out in Section
11-9-8. Except as otherwise set forth in this Chapter 11 for a zone change to
PUD, the requirements of Section 11-98 shall be followed.
      2.   PUD application shall be reviewed as to the proposed location and
conformity of proposed uses with those identified as Residential in Table
11-3-8 or with those identified as Non-Residential in Table
11-3-9, as well as compatibility with neighboring uses.
      3.   Nothing shall prevent the City Council from approving residential or
non-residential design standards not otherwise available in any conventional
zoning district recognized by this Code, provided that any ordinance approving
such standards adopts a PUD with elements compensating beneficially for the
otherwise nonconforming standards.
      4.   The following types of development can only be achieved by use of a
PUD and are encouraged by the City:
         a.   Mixtures of residential types, densities, dwelling sizes and
heights, lot sizes and widths, and design characteristic in a single cohesive
manner throughout the development.
         b.   Mixtures of residential types with specific nonresidential uses
in appropriate locations relative to residential uses and with standards to
ensure the compatibility and design integration of all uses.
         c.   Residential development in dwelling units that facilitate and
preserve common open space, protect natural resources, provide corridors for
linear parks and bikeways, buffer different use types, buffer streams,
wetlands, and floodplains to improve water quality and minimize flood risk,
ensure safe and convenient traffic circulation and emergency access, and
provide areas for active and passive recreation opportunities.
      5.   District Types. A PUD application may be permitted for land located
within the following District types, as shown on Table
11-3-2:
         a.   Agricultural (AG)
         b.   Residential Single Family (RE, RS-1, RS-2, RS-3)
         c.   Residential Multi-Family (RD, RM-1, RM-2, RMT)
         d.   Office (OL, OM)
         e.   Commercial (CS, CG)
         f.   Industrial Light (IL)
      6.   Non-PUD Districts. A PUD application will not be considered in
locations with the following District types except subject to a Specific Use
Permit:
         a.   Residential Manufactured Home (RMH)
         b.   Industrial Moderate (IM)
   B.   Uses. Residential and Nonresidential Uses that are permissible within a
PUD District are identified on Tables
11-3-8 and
11-3-9, respectively. Similarity or compatibility of uses not listed in such
tables to uses that are listed shall be within the judgment of the City
Planner, Planning Commission and City Council in their respective capacity.
   C.   Residential Development Standards. PUD’s shall meet or exceed
Residential Development Standards in the conventional district type to be
displaced by a PUD, as shown on Table
11-4-5, provided that Lot Width, Lot Area, Land Area Per Dwelling Unit, and
Setbacks may be exempt from minimum standards shown or may incorporate
standards unique to the proposed PUD if, in the judgment of the City Planner,
Planning Commission and City Council, resulting density of dwelling units is
offset by shared amenities and common open-space or recreational areas not
otherwise available in conventional zoning districts.
   D.   Non-Residential Development Standards. All PUD’s shall meet or exceed
Non- Residential Development Standards in the conventional district type to be
displaced by a PUD, as shown on Table
11-4-8, provided that Lot Width, Lot Area, Floor to Area Ratio and Setbacks may
be exempt from minimum standards shown for Office, Commercial and/or Industrial
Light uses if, in the judgment of the City Planner, Planning Commission and
City Council, such flexibility facilitates corresponding beneficial development
not otherwise available in conventional zoning districts.
   E.   Parking Requirements. All PUDs shall meet or exceed the respective
Residential, Institutional, Recreation, and Commercial Use Parking Requirements
in the conventional District type to be displaced as provided in Tables
11-6-3.1,
11-6-3.2 and
11-6-3.3, respectively, provided that shared or multiple-facility parking
arrangements may be considered where deemed feasible and safe.
   F.   Landscaping, Screening and Bufferyards. All PUDs shall meet or exceed
the Landscaping, Screening and Bufferyard Requirements set forth in Subchapter
2 of Chapter 6 of this Title, provided that greater flexibility may be
permitted in order to facilitate the shared purposes of the PUD.
   G.   Phased PUD Development.
      1.   Final approval may be granted on each phase of multi-phased planned
unit developments provided that each phase contains the necessary consideration
of the natural environment and the health, safety, and welfare of the users of
the planned unit development and the landowners immediately adjacent thereto.
      2.   Incremental development of public improvements, landscaping,
buffering, and aesthetic and recreational amenities within a single-phase
development or within each phase of a multi-phased development is not intended
to fall within this provision for phased developments. The sequence and timing
of development of all components of any single- or multi-phased PUD shall be
articulated as part of the PUD Development Plan subject to staff review and
approval. (Ord. 788, 6-21-2021)
11-12-3: BUILDING THE PUD DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Purpose of the PUD Development Plan.
      1.   The “PUD Development Plan” is the foundational document into which
details of any PUD will be incorporated. Great care is required of the
applicant and staff to ensure sufficient detail is provided the Planning
Commission and City Council in the PUD Development Plan for meaningful
evaluation, recommendations and review/action.
      2.   A PUD Development Plan supports phasing for large projects because
it allows the developer to make changes based on market factors, infrastructure
costs, and other considerations without having to renegotiate a detailed PUD
Development Plan before moving to the next phase.
      3.   The PUD Development Plan should serve as a site plan at the lot
level that shows uses, densities and intensities, building elevations, open
space, circulation and utility systems, grading, landscaping, circulation
systems, and other project features, such as signage and lighting. It may also
show floor area and height and include sketches. Documents showing easements
and dedications should be added in anticipation of preparing a preliminary and
final plat. This kind of plan, with the engineering, time, and resources that
go with it, requires a major investment, but cost should be lessened by
building on the foundation of a good PUD Development Plan.
   B.   Content of the PUD Development Plan. An applicant may propose one or
more uses, expressly prohibit certain uses, or itemize the list of uses
proposed for the PUD. Uses should be proposed in aesthetically and intuitively
reasonable locations based on surrounding uses, roads, utility services and the
ability to provide buffer areas to ensure that all uses in the PUD, and outside
the PUD, are compatible. These elements should be presented as follows:
      1.   Graphic Development Plan.
         a.   Proposed PUD uses shall be illustrated in a way that shows:
            (1)   Where each use is to be located;
            (2)   Proposed acreage of each use;
            (3)   Proposed density of each residential use (gross units per
acre);
            (4)   Proposed intensity of each nonresidential use (ratio of floor
area to site area);
            (5)   Detailed design standards such as lot dimensions and linkage;
and
            (6)   How open space is proposed to be used as buffers, preserved
as common open space, or used for recreational purposes.
         b.   A map depicting physiographic information for the subject
property such as soil types, topography and any severe slopes, geology,
vegetation, flood plain boundaries and the location and availability of water
and sanitary sewer services.
      2.   Narrative Development Plan.
         a.   Development Standards. The applicant shall propose and describe
in narrative form the objectives and intended character of the proposed
development as well as specific development standards to govern each proposed
use in the PUD. This may be done either by referencing the development
standards of specific zoning districts in this Title or by proposing a unique
set of development standards for each use in the PUD.
         b.   Collateral Information. Along with basic use and dimensional
standards, the development standards narrative shall outline an architectural
design palette, sign program, and amenity program, and also specify how open
spaces and other common areas will be designed and maintained.
      3.   Design Elements. Following is a representative list of design
elements that are typically encouraged or required by the City in general and
particularly within PUDs:
         a.   Aerated ponds surrounded by trails and other amenities, or dry
detention with appropriate slopes to allow active recreation.
         b.   Wider sidewalks and markings that can accommodate pedestrians and
bicycles.
         c.   Linear parks or trails that can connect to other local and
regional trail networks and adjoining development.
         d.   The use of unified and consistent design elements, such as
materials, colors, and design for perimeter walls or fencing, primary road
frontage, entry signs, and amenities in the development.
         e.   Provision of common open space designated for trails,
playgrounds, active or passive recreation and as water quality buffer areas.
         f.   Preservation of trees and sensitive areas to enhance the
appearance of the perimeter of the development, provide buffers between uses,
and enhance livability.
         g.   Buffer areas and design elements to minimize noise and traffic
disruption potentially created by any office, light industrial or commercial
uses.
         h.   Potable water delivery, stormwater and sanitary sewer systems,
fire protection, emergency access and traffic configuration must be addressed
in a manner indicative of the PUD Development Plan.
         i.   Signage and street lighting that conform to Code standards unless
deviation offers an improvement.
      4.   Design Standards. Every PUD proposed for the City’s consideration
shall be unique, meaning there are no universally applicable development
standards. Development standards that are deemed appropriate for each PUD shall
be derived by the following factors, without limitation:
         a.   Context Sensitivity. Identify existing uses and streets that
adjoin the PUD or that are proposed to adjoin the PUD. The Future Land Use Map
and Major Street and Highway Plan should be consulted.
         b.   Site Constraints. Identify development constraints on the
property where the PUD is proposed, and on adjoining sites. Examples of
constraints include uneven terrain, steep slopes, creeks and other water
features, wetlands and floodplains, dense tree cover, and any pre-existing
mineral extraction facilities. Natural constraints should be treated as
opportunities that, when preserved, will provide meaningful open space,
greenbelts for linear parks and trails, and land use buffers, as well as focal
points within a development.
         c.   Linkage. It is essential that PUDs are designed in a manner that
will provide appropriate auto, pedestrian, bicycle and utility linkages between
existing and future development, as well as safe, convenient access to arterial
streets and/or highways and adequate emergency access.
         d.   Site Visibility. The perimeter of the development, particularly
along highways and arterial and collector streets, must be designed
appropriately with greenbelts, decorative walls or fencing, and landscaping to
create a positive appearance for community residents and those traveling
through the City.
      5.   Following details should be included:
         a.   The approximate number of acres of each type of land use.
         b.   The character, density, and intensity of dwellings, structures,
and uses on each section of the PUD.
         c.   Justification for the proposed uses, density and/or intensity in
relation to existing or proposed surrounding uses.
         d.   General discussion of anticipated impacts that build-out may have
on community facilities and the measures necessary to address those impacts.
         e.   Linkages of utility and roadway infrastructure.
         f.   Common open areas, public uses, amenities and common use
facilities to be dedicated to the City or reserved in common ownership.
         g.   Proposed off-street parking and loading areas.
         h.   A circulation plan showing proposed car, truck, bicycle, and
pedestrian networks and their relationship with existing or proposed streets.
         i.   Any special engineering features, such as, but not limited to,
stormwater detention areas, drainage plan, utility plan and traffic control
improvements.
         j.   A development schedule indicating:
            (1)   The approximate date when construction of the project is
expected to commence.
            (2)   The approximate sequence and timing of when public
improvements, landscaping, buffering, and aesthetic and recreational amenities
are proposed to begin and be completed in conjunction with the project schedule
for the development as a whole or within each phase of a multi-phase project.
See Section
11-12-2. G. 1. and 2 above.
            (3)   The location and area of common open spaces that will be
provided at each stage.
         k.   Legal agreements, provisions, and/or covenants and restrictions
to govern the use and maintenance of common areas, including public
infrastructure, utility easements, detention basins, etc. (Ord. 788, 6-21-2021)
11-12-4: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Preliminary Administrative Steps.
      1.   Consultation. Prior to submitting an application, the applicant
shall meet with the City Planner in one or more conferences, to include other
Community Development staff in the discretion of the City Planner. Notes of any
such conference(s) shall be taken by the City Planner, provided to the
applicant, and become a permanent part of the application in the official
records of the City Planner.
      2.   Filing. The PUD Development Plan process is initiated by the filing
of an application and application fee with the City Planner. Payment of fee is
as shown on a fee schedule published by and maintained at the Community
Development office.
         a.   The applicant shall submit to the City Planner a list of property
owners and their mailing addresses within a 300-foot radius of the outer
boundaries of the subject property, as certified by a registered bonded
abstract company or a licensed title insurance company, as well as addressed
adhesive envelope labels and postage for all such property owners.
         b.   All costs associated with publication and mailing of notice for
any public hearing associated with the application shall accrue to the
applicant.
      3.   Preliminary Plat. An applicant may, but is not required to, file a
Preliminary Plat to be filed and processed concurrently with the PUD
Development Plan or concurrently with or following PUD Development Plan
approval. If a Preliminary Plat is filed with the PUD Development Plan, the
City may not take any action on the plat until the PUD Development Plan is
approved. If a PUD Development Plan application is denied, the Preliminary Plat
application shall be deemed withdrawn.
      4.   Review Criteria. The PUD Development Plan shall comply with all
applicable PUD standards and PUD purposes and criteria set out in this Chapter
11. (Ord. 788, 6-21-2021)
11-12-5: PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
   A.   Preparation and Notice.
      1.   Once an applicant, with the assistance of staff, has formulated the
PUD Development Plan, the City Planner will set a date for a presentation
before and public hearing with the Planning Commission. PUD Development Plan
review by the Planning Commission is mandatory. The purpose is to allow the
applicant/developer to receive comments and written recommendations on the
record.
      2.   The City shall use the list of property owners and address labels
provided by the applicant to notify the persons identified thereon of the
required public hearing in writing, by mail, not fewer than twenty (20) days
nor more than thirty (3) days prior to the Planning Commission public hearing
to consider the PUD Development Plan.
      3.   The City shall publish legal notice of the required public hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Glenpool not fewer than
twenty (20) days, nor more than 30 days, prior to the public hearing.
Publication arrangements will be made by the City. The cost will be assessed to
the applicant.
      4.   The City shall post rezoning notice signs on the subject property by
the City. The signs shall include the current and proposed zoning of the
property, the identity of the property owner, the date of the public hearings,
and the City Planner contact information, and shall be posted at least 20 days
prior to the initial public hearing.
      5.   Written notices prepared for mailing and publication as provided
above shall contain, without limitation:
         a.   The date, time, and place of public hearing.
         b.   The agency/entity that will conduct the public hearing (Planning
Commission).
         c.   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location of the property.
         d.   Present owner of the subject property
         e.   The present zoning district classification of the property.
         f.   The proposed zoning district classification sought by the
applicant.
         g.   General description of proposed use of the property.
         h.   Any other information as may be necessary to provide adequate and
timely public notice.
      6.   All costs associated with mailing or publication of the public
notice shall accrue to the applicant.
      7.   Written notice of a public hearing on any proposed zoning change
(including a PUD) that would request a permit for the use of treatment
facilities, multiple family facilities, transitional living facilities, halfway
houses or any housing or facility that may be used for medical or nonmedical
detoxification, shall be mailed within thirty (30) days prior to the hearing to
all real property owners within one-quarter (1/4) of a mile of where the
property affected by the zone change is located.
   B.   Conduct of Public Hearing and Possible Action.
      1.   The applicant will be afforded the opportunity to make a full and
adequate presentation of the PUD Development Plan to the public and to the
Planning Commission. Members of the public shall be afforded the opportunity to
comment on the Plan subject to such parliamentary rules as the chair of the
Commission deems appropriate and consistent with Robert’s Rules of Order.
      2.   Comments and interaction during the public hearing shall be directed
to the Commission Chair. A written record will be made of any stated conditions
or expectations for further approval and will be incorporated into minutes of
the meeting.
      3.   Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission will vote to
recommend to the City Council adoption of the PUD Development Plan as is, to
recommend approval subject to written recommendations and conditions stated on
the record, or to deny the PUD Development Plan. All recommendations, if any,
will be recorded as part of a vote to recommend approval subject to such
conditions.
      4.   An applicant whose PUD Development Plan has been approved by the
Planning Commission as is or, having received and incorporated stated
conditions from the Planning Commission, if any, into the PUD Development Plan,
shall proceed with submission of the PUD Development Plan to the City Council.
      5.   Upon an action to recommend denial of the PUD Development Plan by
the City Council, the applicant may negotiate with the City Planner, and such
other Community Development staff as the City Planner deems advisable or
necessary, to prepare and submit a revised PUD Development Plan for
consideration and commentary by the Planning Commission following the same
procedures as those applicable to the original PUD Development Plan
application.
   C.   Review Criteria. The PUD Development Plan application shall be reviewed
based on the compatibility of the Plan with the following PUD criteria set out
in this Chapter:
         a.   The PUD represented by the PUD Development Plan will further the
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and other City plans.
         b.   The PUD will be compatible with, or blend into, the development
pattern and intensities in the area, or will establish a more desirable pattern
in terms of implementing City plans.
         c.   Adequate public services are available or may be extended to
serve the PUD.
         d.   The PUD design and proposed amenities will provide a higher
quality environment than achievable by conventional zoning.
         e.   Streets will have the capacity to serve the proposed development
and are consistent with the Major Street and Highway Plan.
         f.   Geologic hazard areas, steep slopes, open spaces, and natural
resources will be as appropriately protected from the impacts of development as
feasible.
         g.   Any off-site street or utility improvements necessary to serve
the development adequately are identified.
   D.   Effect of Planning Commission Review.
      1.   The Planning Commission will not approve or deny any PUD Development
Plan but will offer comments and recommendations to address the review criteria
in this chapter and to facilitate the preparation of a PUD Development Plan
ready for submission to the City Council.
      2.   No action of the Planning Commission shall provide any limitation on
the discretion of the City Council nor is the Commission’s action intended as a
representation of action anticipated by the City Council. (Ord. 788, 6-21-2021)
11-12-6: CITY COUNCIL REVIEW:
   A.   Notice and Public Hearing.
      1.   Once an applicant, with the assistance of staff, if necessary,
considers and implements comments and recommendations received thus far in the
Plan’s evolution, the City Planner will set a date for a presentation before
and public hearing to be held by the City Council.
      2.   Publication and mailing of notice requirements are identical to
those for the public hearing before the Planning Commission.
   B.   City Council Action. Upon conclusion of the public hearing, the Council
shall receive and consider the recommendations of the Planning Commission and
City Planner, and record of public comments and shall take action on the
application.
      1.   Action taken by the City Council may be to approve the PUD
Development Plan as presented by the adoption of a zone change ordinance in
accordance with the procedural requirements of section
11-9-8 of this Title 11, grant conditional approval contingent upon the
satisfaction of stated conditions, denial of the PUD Development Plan or such
other action as the City Council deems appropriate.
      2.   The findings of the Council supporting approval, as well as any
conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a PUD Development Plan shall
be stated or incorporated by reference into the adopting ordinance and shall
not be changed or amended except as authorized in accordance with Sections
11-12-8 or
11-12-9 of this Chapter.
      3.   Vote Required if Protest Filed. In the event a protest against the
zoning change was filed with the City Planner as Secretary of the Planning
Commission at least three (3) days prior to the public hearing by the owners of
twenty percent (20%) or more of the area of the lots included in such proposed
change, or by the owners of fifty percent (50%) or more of the area of the lots
immediately abutting any side of the territory included in such proposed
change, or separated therefrom only by an alley or street less than 300 feet
wide, then the rezoning application may not be approved except by favorable
vote of three-fifths (3/5) of all members of the City Council.
   B.   Effect of Approval or Denial of PUD Development Plan.
      1.   Platting. Upon approval of a PUD Development Plan, no modification
of the use or bulk and area requirements that would have applied to the
original zoning standards for the affected district shall be effectuated by
issuance of any building or zoning clearance permit until a subdivision plat
incorporating the provisions and requirements of the PUD is approved by the
City in accordance with all application requirements set forth in Title 12,
Subdivision Regulations, and duly filed of record in the office of the County
Clerk of Tulsa County.
      2.   Property Owners’ Association. Any property owner association created
to administer the common areas of the PUD shall be incorporated.
      3.   Displacement. Upon approval of a PUD, the previously existing zoning
district will cease to exist, and the property shall be rezoned to “PUD” and
assigned a number, subject to all of the requirements adopted by the City
Council in the ordinance that established the PUD.
      4.   A PUD approved prior to the effective date of this Chapter shall be
carried forth in full force and effect, and all conditions, restrictions,
regulations, and requirements that apply to the respective PUD shown on the
Official Zoning Map at the date of adoption shall continue to apply.
      5.   Notwithstanding the provision of the immediately preceding paragraph
4, implementation of a final plat of a previously adopted PUD shall be subject
to requirements that are current at the time of such implementation.
      6.   If the PUD Development Plan is denied, the applicant may choose to
abandon the PUD; interact with staff to make such additional revisions as staff
and the applicant deem appropriate for resubmission; or take an appeal to the
Tulsa County District Court. Any suit to challenge any action, decision, ruling
or order of the City Council with respect to an application to adopt a PUD by
amending the zoning ordinance shall be filed with the district court within
thirty (30) business days from the action, decision, ruling or order. (Ord.
788, 6-21-2021)
11-12-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Subdivision Platting.
      1.   The applicant may submit PUD subdivision plats concurrently with the
PUD Development Plans. Plats shall be processed in accordance with the
requirements of Title 12, Subdivision Regulations.
      2.   Covenants to provide for the ownership and maintenance of common
open space to reasonably ensure its continuity and conservation shall be
provided to the City for review as to form. Open space may be dedicated to a
private association or to the public, subject to the approval of City Council.
   B.   Building Permits. Upon the recordation and filing of an approved Final
PUD Subdivision Plat, the acceptance of any required public improvements, and
the issuance of a Zoning Clearance Permit, a building permit may be issued for
land in the PUD in accordance with the approved plat and PUD plan.
   C.   Amendments. Minor and Major Amendments to the PUD may be considered in
accordance with the processes set out in Section
11-12-8 of this title, Minor PUD Amendments, and Section
11-12-9, Major PUD Amendments.
   D.   Abandonment. Abandonment of a PUD is subject to City Council approval
upon receiving a recommendation by the Planning Commission of an application
for an amendment to the Official Zoning Map to repeal the PUD. Public hearing
and Planning Commission and City Council action, resulting in the adoption of
an ordinance repealing the previously adopted PUD Development Plan, shall be
required to the same extent as applicable to the original PUD Development Plan.
If a PUD is repealed, the zoning of the subject property shall automatically
revert to the conventional zoning district classification which existed prior
to establishment of the PUD and shall be so noted on the Official Zoning Map.
Upon final action authorizing the abandonment of a PUD, no building permit
shall be issued except in accordance with the restrictions and limitations of
the prior conventional zoning of the property. (Ord. 788, 6-21-2021)
11-12-8: SITE PLAN REVIEW: (See also Section
11-9-2 of this Title)
   A.   Meaning of Site Plan. As used in the section, “site plan” means the
documents and plans specified in the PUD Development Plan needed to ensure that
the proposed land use(s) are in compliance with all applicable ordinances and
state and federal regulations, if any.
   B.   Requirement. Site plan submission, review and approval is required for
and central to Planned Unit Developments. Decisions denying, approving, or
conditionally approving a site plan shall be based upon the approved PUD
conditions and standards, and other requirements contained in this Chapter.
   C.   Purpose. The purpose of the site plan process is to determine whether a
site plan complies with all requirements of this Title, all requirements of the
City Code and other applicable ordinances, and the requirements of all
utilities and referral agencies with jurisdiction over any feature of the PUD.
   D.   Process. The site plan process shall generally be an administrative
process managed by the City Planner. However, a site plan may be referred to
the Planning Commission in instances of:
      1.   Potential adverse effects on public services or the ability of the
City or an affected agency to provide adequate services.
      2.   Potential adverse effects on surrounding properties or uses.
      3.   Failure of the developer to provide traffic mitigation improvements,
on-site or off-site, as set out in Title 12, Section
12-4-1, Responsibilities of the Subdivider or Developer.
      4.   City Planner referral due to questions or issues regarding the
ability of the site plan to comply with all applicable City or agency
requirements.
      5.   An appeal by an applicant following the denial of a site plan by the
City Planner.
   E.   Site Plan Contents. The site plan shall contain all information
necessary to demonstrate compliance with this Title and all other codes,
ordinances and referral agency requirements. Attached to the ordinance codified
herein, in Appendix A, Section A-2, Site Plan Requirements, is a site plan
contents checklist. Additional information may be required by the City to
determine if a proposed development will result in the need for public
improvements, such as, but not limited to additional right-of-way, turn lanes,
traffic signals or utilities, or if platting is required.
   F.   Prohibited Actions.
      1.   No site plan will be approved prior to the platting of the subject
property.
      2.   A plat may be submitted simultaneously with the proposed site plan
upon approval of the City Planner.
      3.   In such cases, approval of the site plan application shall be
conditional upon the approval and recordation of the plat, and the City is not
obligated to approve the plat unless it complies with all requirements of Title
12.
      4.   No Zoning Clearance Permit, Building Permit or approval to allow
land clearing shall be issued for development prior to the approval of a site
plan required by this Title.
      5.   No lot grading, drainage work, parking lot construction or other
site improvements may commence without first obtaining approval of a site plan
for the proposed improvements.
      6.   No Certificate of Occupancy may be issued until all improvements
depicted as part of an approved site plan have been completed.
   G.   Enforcement. A Zoning Clearance Permit issued on the basis of an
approved site plan shall authorize only the uses, arrangement and construction
set forth in such approved plan and application, and no other use, arrangement,
or construction. Use, arrangement, or construction at variance with the
approved site plan shall be deemed a violation of this Title, subject to the
remedies applicable to infractions and enforceable pursuant to the provisions
of Chapter 12, Enforcement and Remedies, as well as those at Title 10, Building
and Development, Chapter 1, Section
10-1-3, Violations and Penalties. (Ord. 788, 6-21-2021)
11-12-9: MINOR PUD AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Generally.
      1.   Subject to the provisions of this Section, the City Planner is
authorized to approve minor changes or modifications to an approved PUD
Development Plan if the proposed changes will not result in substantial
deviation from the original plan, as set out in Subsection B, Minor Amendment
Determination Criteria, below.
      2.   Permits may not be issued for any improvements that would result in
a major deviation from an approved PUD Development Plan except as set out in
Section
11-12-10, Major PUD Amendments.
      3.   A zoning clearance permit and building permit may be issued for
Minor Amendments to an approved PUD Development Plan if:
         a.   They are consistent with subsection B, Minor Amendment
Determination Criteria; and
         b.   The Minor Amendment is approved by the City Planner.
   B.   Minor Amendment Determination Criteria.
      1.   No amendment to an approved PUD Development Plan determined by the
City Planner to be a Major Amendment may be approved except by the criteria and
steps provided by section
11-12-10.
      2.   In reaching a determination as to whether a change is minor and may
be approved by the City Planner or is a major amendment requiring Planning
Commission review and recommendation and City Council approval, the following
criteria shall be used. That is, an amendment having any of the following
effects shall be deemed a Major Amendment and shall not be qualified for
administrative action only:
         a.   Any material increase in intensity of use;
         b.   Any material increase in total usable floor area, the total
number of dwelling or lodging units, or the amount of outdoor area devoted to a
use;
         c.   Any change that necessitates an increase of 10 percent or more in
the number of parking spaces required;
         d.   Any structural alteration that, in the judgment of the City
Planner, significantly affects the size, form, style, and location of a
building, particularly in relation to sensitive uses, is a major amendment;
         e.   Any reduction in the amount of open space or buffer yard, or any
change in the location or characteristics of open space that, in the judgment
of the City Planner, diminishes their value added to the PUD;
         f.   Any change in use from one use group to another is a major
amendment; and
         g.   Any proposed amendment of an approved PUD Development Plan for
which the final plat has been approved, released and recorded shall be deemed a
Major PUD Amendment.
      3.   A minor change will not cause any of the following circumstances to
occur:
         a.   A material change in the character of the development;
         b.   A material change in the scale or impact of the existing use;
         c.   An increase in the residential density of the proposed
development;
         d.   A reduction in the originally approved separations between
buildings without mitigation;
         e.   Any measurable creation of, or increase in, external negative
effects on adjacent property;
         f.   A reduction in the originally approved setbacks from property
lines unless conditions have changed on adjoining properties so as to warrant a
reduction, such as a change in zoning or land use;
         g.   An increase in the demand for services that the City or utility
provider cannot provide;
         h.   An increase of more than five percent (5 %) in ground coverage by
structures;
         i.   Locations of open spaces, provided that the percentage of common
open space and/or landscaped area is not diminished or open space or buffering
around sensitive uses is not diminished; or
         j.   Increase in the size, intensity of lighting or orientation of
signs in relation to sensitive uses.
      4.   Minor amendments must demonstrate that:
         a.   Changes in development density or intensity will not be deemed
material if:
            (1)   The number of buildings is not increased by more than ten
percent (10%);
            (2)   The height of the buildings is the same or less;
            (3)   The number of residential dwelling units is the same or
fewer;
            (4)   No increase in the gross floor area of nonresidential uses
will be more than five percent (5 %);
            (5)   Density or intensity (floor area ratio) may be transferred
from one building to another or from one stage of development to another,
provided that the total floor area is not changed and the above conditions are
met.
         b.   Changes in design will not be deemed material if:
            (1)   Recreational facilities are added or are converted from one
recreational use to another without reduction in space dedicated to common
recreational use;
            (2)   Materials and architectural components for building
elevations are substantially similar to those shown on the approved plans;
            (3)   Contemplated building footprints or envelopes may be modified
but the buildings are not located any closer to protected uses or exterior
property lines than as shown on the approved plans;
            (4)   Proposed perimeter walls and/or fences are in the same
general location and of a comparable type and design as shown on the approved
plans;
            (5)   Open space is in the same general location, is the same or
greater amount, and is configured in a manner that does not diminish a
previously intended buffer;
            (6)   Building setbacks are the same, or a greater distance from
perimeter property lines, except that those for lot line homes, townhomes, and
cluster development may be decreased due to the nature of such development,
provided that all building code requirements are satisfied;
            (7)   Parking areas are in the same general location and
configuration as shown on the approved plans; and
            (8)   Roadway patterns, including ingress-egress points, are in the
same general location and are no closer to the rear or interior side property
lines than as shown on the approved plans.
      5.   The proposed changes must not have the effect of creating any
noncompliance or nonconformity with the application of this Title that was not
previously approved at a public hearing, or of expanding the scope of existing
variances, special exceptions or other approvals, such that they would differ
to a greater degree from the application of this Title than previously
approved.
   C.   City Planner Evaluation and Approval Process.
      1.   The City Planner, in reviewing any proposed amendment, shall:
         a.   Compare the proposed amendment to the original approval;
         b.   Determine whether any other amendments have been approved since
the original approval;
         c.   Consider the cumulative impact of any previously approved and
proposed amendments; and
         d.   Determine whether a proposed amendment is minor or major, as set
out in this section and proceed accordingly.
      2.   Administrative approval or denial of a proposed Minor PUD Amendment
shall be documented in a report for the official project file with adequate
details to explain why the request was approved or denied and the rationale for
the decision.
      3.   Any further proposed changes shall be treated as new application(s),
shall follow all procedures in this section, and shall include evaluation of
the cumulative impact with previous amendments that may have been approved.
   D.   Procedures. Applications for a Minor Amendment to a PUD Development
Plan are subject to City Planner review and are processed in accordance with
all procedures for Administrative Site Plan reviews.
      1.   Minor Amendments that are approved shall be clearly notated in the
official project file as to the nature of the amendment and the date of
approval.
      2.   The PUD Development Plan shall be amended to show the amendment and
shall clearly notate the changes that were approved.
   E.   Decisions.
      1.   The City Planner shall approve, approve with conditions that are
acceptable to the applicant, or deny applications for Minor PUD Amendments.
      2.   The City Planner, upon determining that a proposed amendment is a
Major Amendment, shall reject the application.
      3.   The decision of the City Planner to refuse to treat an amendment as
minor and require application for a major amendment is final.
      4.   The decision of the City Planner determining that any proposed
amendment is Major shall necessitate application to the Planning Commission and
processing in the manner of a Major PUD Amendment, pursuant to subsection
11-12-10.
   F.   Construction Adjustments.
      1.   During the construction of an approved PUD, the City Planner is
authorized to grant adjustments in the location of a principal or accessory
building to any position within a construction site envelope consistent with
the specified minimum distance between buildings when such adjustments are
necessary in light of technical or engineering considerations first discovered
during construction.
      2.   Such adjustments shall be subject to the following limitations:
         a.   Parking and loading areas, access aisles, driveways, sidewalks,
walkways and pathways, signs, landscaping, and fences and screening may be
adjusted, as necessary, to accommodate changes in building location within the
construction site envelope;
         b.   Curb cuts and street intersections along public rights-of-way
serving the Planned Unit Development shall not be adjusted, except as approved
by Community Development staff;
         c.   The plan for the treatment of the perimeter of the Planned
Development shall not be adjusted as to the type or quality of buffer yard
elements; and
         d.   Surface drainage leaving the site shall not be altered, except as
approved by Community Development Staff. (Ord. 788, 6-21-2021)
11-12-10: MAJOR PUD AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Applicability. Section
11-12-9, Minor PUD Amendments, sets out criteria for determining whether a
given application for PUD amendment is a Minor PUD Amendment application that
may be approved administratively. Any amendment that does not meet the Minor
PUD Amendment criteria is considered to be a Major PUD Amendment.
   B.   Major PUD Plan Amendment Application.
      1.   An applicant proposing to amend an approved PUD Development Plan
shall file an application and plans that clearly depict the areas to be
amended, both as they were originally approved and as they are proposed to be
amended.
      2.   Rationale for the revision shall be provided.
      3.   If the narrative of the PUD is proposed to be amended, the original
text that is affected shall be highlighted and the proposed changes noted.
      4.   All of the standard procedures for processing a PUD Development Plan
shall be followed, as applicable, including notice and public hearing/
recommendations by the Planning Commission and action by the City Council.
   C.   Amendments to an Approved Plat.
      1.   When a PUD Development Plan has completed the zoning and platting
processes and the plat has been approved, released and recorded, the amendment
process will require an application for Major Amendment to the PUD Development
Plan and an amended Final Plat, provided that the spirit and intent of the
proposed amendment are consistent with those originally approved.
      2.   If the applicant proposes a PUD amendment that substantially differs
from the first approved, the applicant shall file a PUD Development Plan to
determine whether the City is receptive to the new PUD direction and to allow
the City an opportunity to determine whether the change warrants PUD Plan
approvals or an entirely new application.
   D.   Review Criteria. The review criteria for any Major PUD Amendment shall
be the same as that used in the original review and approval of the PUD. The
City is not obligated to amend the PUD but may consider an amendment if the
original spirit and intent of the PUD is not adversely affected. (Ord. 788, 6-
21-2021)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Short Title
12-1-2: Purpose And Intent
12-1-3: Jurisdiction
12-1-4: Application And Interpretation
12-1-5: Compliance Required
12-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall hereafter be known as the SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF THE CITY
OF GLENPOOL, OKLAHOMA, and referred to as “this title” herein. (Ord. 747, 11-
14-2017)
12-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intention of this title is generally as follows:
   A.   To provide for the physical development of the city in accordance with
the comprehensive master plan and the major street and highway plan as
officially adopted by the city and as amended from time to time.
   B.   To provide for the most beneficial relationship between the development
of land and building structures, and the circulation of vehicular traffic
throughout the city particularly regarding, but not limited to, the following:
avoidance of congestion of streets and highways; providing for the movement of
traffic and pedestrians appropriate to the various uses of land being
subdivided; and providing for the proper location and configuration of lot and
block lines, street rights of way, building setback lines, and utility
easements, and other considerations.
   C.   To secure and provide for the proper arrangement and alignment of
public or private streets or other types of trafficways in relation to existing
or planned streets or to the comprehensive master plan as adopted by the city;
for adequate and convenient vehicular traffic flow; utility extensions and
associated service lines; adequate access for firefighting apparatus, police
and other emergency vehicle operations; appropriate and adequately designed
parking lots, parks and open spaces, light and air; and for the avoidance of
congested population centers.
   D.   To establish a subdivision process that is as expeditious, efficient,
and the most cost effective as possible, while providing for the health,
safety, convenience, and general welfare of the public.
   E.   To ensure that proper legal descriptions, survey monumentation of land,
and adequate and accurate records of the platting of real property subdivisions
are kept in conjunction with the subdivision process adopted by the city.
   F.   To ensure that public facilities and utilities are available that will
have sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision while providing for
the orderly development of the community in general conformance with the
comprehensive master plan adopted by the city.
   G.   To consider the natural beauty and topography of the city and to
encourage appropriate development with regard to all natural features existing
on a particular property.
   H.   To provide that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the
tract of land being subdivided and/or developed be borne by the owners and
developers of the property without undue economic burden to the public. (Ord.
747, 11-14-2017)
12-1-3: JURISDICTION:
This title shall apply to the subdivision of all land within the corporate
limits of the city as established by law now in effect or as may be amended
from time to time. This title shall apply to the following forms of real
property subdivision:
   A.   The division of tracts of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots,
sites, parcels, units, or title interests for the purpose of sale, lease, or
development.
   B.   The division of land previously subdivided or platted into tracts,
lots, sites, parcels, units, plots, or title interests of five (5) acres or
less in area.
   C.   The creation, delineation, and dedication of any public or private
street or alley rights of way and other forms of easements and reserve areas
on, through, or being a part of any tract of land. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-1-4: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Conflicting Provisions:
      1.   Public Provisions: This title is not intended to interfere with,
abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, or other
provision of law. Where any provision of this title imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive shall control.
      2.   Private Provisions: This title is not intended to interfere with,
abrogate, or annul any easement, covenant, or any other private agreement or
restriction; provided, that where this title is more restrictive, or imposes
higher standards or regulations than any such easement, covenant, or other
private agreement or restriction, the requirements of this title shall control.
   B.   Severability: If any part or provision of this title, or the
application thereof, shall be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other part, section,
clause, paragraph, portion, or provision of this title.
   C.   Saving Clause: This title shall not be construed as abating any action
now or pending under, or by virtue of, prior existing regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any section or provision existing at the
effective date hereof. Additionally, this title shall not be construed as
vacating or annulling any rights obtained by any person, firm, or corporation
by lawful action of the city, except as expressly provided for herein. (Ord.
747, 11-14-2017)
12-1-5: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions of approval to any such subdivision of land is a valid exercise of
the police power delegated to the city by the state of Oklahoma. The subdivider
has the duty to comply with said reasonable conditions established by the
planning commission regarding the design, public dedications, improvements, and
restrictive uses of the land so as to conform to the physical and economic
development of the city as contemplated by the comprehensive master plan
adopted by the city, and to the safety and general welfare of future owners of
realty within the subdivided lands and the city community as a whole. (Ord.
747, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
12-2-2: Definitions
12-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   For the purpose of this title, use of certain numbers, abbreviations,
terms and words shall be interpreted and defined as set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, words used in the
present tense include the future tense; words in the singular include the
plural and words in the plural include the singular except where the
construction of the writing indicates otherwise; the word “herein” means in
this title; the word “this title” means these subdivision regulations.
   C.   A “person” includes a corporation, a partnership, and an incorporation
association of persons such as a club; “shall” is mandatory and not directory;
“may” and “should” are directory and not mandatory; the “building” includes a
“structure”; a “building” or “structure” includes any part thereof; “used” or
“occupied” as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the
words “intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied”. (Ord. 747, 11-
13-2017)
12-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABUTTING:                                    In addition to the customary meaning, abutting, for the purposes of notice, shall
                                             mean contiguous or separated therefrom only by a nonarterial street.
                                             A public or private right of way primarily designed to serve as a secondary
ALLEY:                                       access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal frontage is on
                                             some other street right of way.
                                             The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his representative. Consent shall
APPLICANT:                                   be required from the legal owner of the premises for the purposes of any
                                             application submitted to the city under this title if said owner is not the
                                             applicant.
AS BUILT PLANS:                              See definition of Record Drawings.
                                             A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets, public parks,
BLOCK:                                       cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shorelines of waterways, or boundary lines of
                                             municipalities.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:                         The board of adjustment for the city of Glenpool, Oklahoma.
                                             Any form of security including cash deposit, surety bond, collateral, property,
BOND:                                        or instrument of credit in the amount and form satisfactory to the city of
                                             Glenpool. All bonds shall be approved by the city of Glenpool wherever a bond is
                                             required by this title.
BUILDING:                                    Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals,
                                             chattels, or movable property of any kind.
                                             A proposed schedule of all future projects listed in order of construction
                                             priority, together with cost estimates and the anticipated means of financing
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM:                each project. All major projects requiring the expenditure of public funds, over
                                             and above the annual local government’s operating expenses, for the purchase,
                                             construction, major maintenance, or replacement of the physical assets of the
                                             community, are included in the capital improvements program.
CITY:                                        The city of Glenpool, Tulsa County, Oklahoma.
CITY COUNCIL:                                The city council of the city of Glenpool, Oklahoma. See also definition of
                                             Governing Body.
                                             The master plan for the development of the city of Glenpool, prepared and adopted
                                             by the planning commission and approved by the city council of Glenpool, pursuant
COMPREHENSIVE MASTER PLAN:                   to Oklahoma state statutes, and submitted for review and approval of the
                                             applicable counties, including any part of such plan separately adopted and made
                                             a part thereof and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
                                             The maps or drawings accompanying a preliminary and final subdivision plat and
                                             showing the specific location and design of public or private improvements to be
CONSTRUCTION PLANS:                          installed in the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the city of
                                             Glenpool as a condition of the approval of the final subdivision plat. See also
                                             definition of Record Drawings.
COUNTY:                                      Tulsa County, Oklahoma.
CUL-DE-SAC:                                  See definition of Street, Cul-De-Sac Street.
                                             The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or the owner’s representative.
DEVELOPER:                                   Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises if the owner is
                                             not the actual developer for the purpose of any application submitted to the city
                                             under this title.
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT:                         A situation in which a lot or parcel has access to public or private street
                                             rights of way on two (2) different streets that do not intersect.
EASEMENT:                                    Authorization by a property owner for a general or specific use by other
                                             identified parties covering all, or any designated part, of a tract of land.
                                             The engineering standards and design criteria used in the design and construction
ENGINEERING DESIGN CRITERIA:                 of public and private subdivision improvements as adopted and as may be amended
                                             by the city of Glenpool. A short form of reference to the entire document
                                             entitled “Engineering And Design Criteria And Standards For Construction”.
                                             A deposit of cash or appropriate letters of credit placed with the city of
                                             Glenpool in lieu of amounts required to be secured by performance and/or
ESCROW:                                      maintenance bonds required to be posted by a subdivider or contractor. Upon
                                             receipt by the city of Glenpool, any such cash escrow funds shall be deposited
                                             and held in a separate account.
FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT:                      The map, plan, or record of a subdivision of land and any accompanying material,
                                             document, or information as described in this title.
                                             Areas adjoining the channel or course of water flow of a river, creek, stream,
                                             watercourse, lake, or any other body of standing water or areas which may from
                                             time to time be covered by stormwater runoff. The floodplain areas regulated by
FLOODPLAIN:                                  the city of Glenpool shall be those as described and delineated on maps produced
                                             by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) and adopted by the city along
                                             with any other similar maps from various other engineering sources as may be
                                             located and maintained in the office of the city engineer and/or the city of
                                             Glenpool floodplain administrator.
                                             That part of a lot or tract abutting a public or private street right of way or
                                             other public or private way that is regarded as the front of the property. Corner
FRONTAGE:                                    lots located at the intersection of two (2) streets shall typically be considered
                                             to have a primary frontage on one street and secondary frontage on the other for
                                             various access and building setback purposes.
                                             The total development and improvement anticipated within a defined area in
FULL URBANIZATION:                           accordance with the comprehensive master plan and other land use regulations
                                             adopted by the city of Glenpool.
                                             The body of the local government having the power and authority to adopt
GOVERNING BODY:                              ordinances (laws). Within the city of Glenpool, such governing body shall be the
                                             city council.
GRADE:                                       The slope of natural ground surface or of a road, street, or public or private
                                             way specified in terms of feet/foot or percentage.
                                             The agency designated by the city of Glenpool to administer the health
HEALTH DEPARTMENT:                           regulations of the local and state governments and herein referred to as the
                                             Tulsa County health department or the Oklahoma department of environmental
                                             quality.
                                             A limited access highway shall be defined as a freeway or expressway providing a
                                             vehicular trafficway for through traffic. In respect such highways, owners or
HIGHWAY, LIMITED ACCESS:                     occupants of abutting property, as well as other persons, shall have no legal
                                             right to access to or from said highway except at such locations and in such a
                                             manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such
                                             trafficway.
                                             Clearing, disposal, grading, streets, sidewalks, water lines, sanitary sewer
IMPROVEMENTS:                                lines, stormwater management facilities, erosion control measures, and other
                                             utilities, structures, and features necessary to support any particular
                                             subdivision or development.
                                             Shall include a septic tank and associated perforated lateral lines or any other
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:          sewerage treatment device or system that is an approved method of sewerage
                                             treatment and disposal for individual lots or tracts by the Tulsa County health
                                             department and the Oklahoma department of environmental quality (ODEQ).
JOINT OWNERSHIP:                             All owners of property, subdivisions, or developments and may be referred to as
                                             “constructive ownership” for the purposes of this title.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:                            The city of Glenpool acting by and through its duly constituted boards,
                                             commissions, and bodies.
                                             A tract, plot, parcel, or portion of a subdivision or other tract of land
LOT:                                         intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or in the future, of
                                             ownership for building and similar development or improvement.
LOT AREA:                                    The total area measured on a horizontal plane, included within the boundary of a
                                             lot, typically expressed in square feet or acres.
                                             A double frontage lot shall mean a lot or tract that runs through a block from
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE:                        street to street and that abuts two (2) or more street rights of way that do not
                                             intersect; not including corner lots.
                                             A reverse frontage lot shall mean a lot that is designed to be developed with the
LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE:                       rear yard abutting a major street, but with the primary means of ingress and
                                             egress provided on a minor street.
                                             A minor resubdivision of a previously subdivided property or tract of land. The
                                             planning commission may approve a lot split application that: creates not more
                                             than four (4) lots having frontage on an existing public or private street; does
                                             not involve the creation of any new street or roadway right of way or the
LOT SPLIT:                                   extension of city facilities or the creation of any new public improvements; does
                                             not adversely affect the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property; and is
                                             not in conflict with any provision or portion of the Glenpool comprehensive
                                             master plan, the adopted major street and highway plan, city zoning ordinance, or
                                             this title.
                                             A map and supporting documentation established and adopted by the city council
MAJOR STREET AND HIGHWAY PLAN:               illustrating and identifying all existing major streets and highways within the
                                             city along with the rights of way that will be required for future major street
                                             locations and alignments.
                                             All subdivisions not classified as a minor subdivision including, but not limited
                                             to: a subdivision of four (4) or more lots; any size subdivision requiring any
                                             new street right of way or the extension of existing city or public facilities;
MAJOR SUBDIVISION:                           any subdivision that requires the creation of any public improvements;
                                             subdivisions that do not adversely affect the remainder of the parcel or
                                             adjoining property; and any subdivision not in conflict with any provision or
                                             portion of the Glenpool comprehensive master plan, the adopted major street and
                                             highway plan, city zoning ordinance, or this title.
                                             A survey type marker properly located as required in this title for the
                                             established location and identification on the land of reference points on the
MONUMENT:                                    boundary of the subdivision and certain points within the subdivision including,
                                             but not limited to, the corners of blocks, lots, and various points along the
                                             centerline of street rights of way as set forth and specified herein.
OFF SITE IMPROVEMENT:                        A utility, structure, or modification of topography located outside the boundary
                                             of the tract or parcel of land to be subdivided.
                                             Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations, or any
OWNER:                                       other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient propriety interest in any
                                             land sought to be subdivided under this title.
                                             A type of development that is subject to jurisdictional approval under the zoning
                                             ordinance of the city of Glenpool and this title; a tract of land under single
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:                    ownership or control; is based upon an approved development concept and plan
                                             permitting certain flexibility as specified in this title and the city
                                             engineering design criteria not otherwise available pertaining to the development
                                             standards and requirements for conventionally zoned and subdivided properties.
PLANNING COMMISSION:                         The planning commission for the city of Glenpool, Oklahoma.
                                             Any street, utility main or service extension, stormwater management structure or
PRIVATE IMPROVEMENT:                         other facility not provided by the city and which may or may not be required as a
                                             condition of approval of a subdivision or development by the city council.
                                             Any street, utility main or service extension, stormwater management structure,
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT:                          or other facility for which the city may ultimately accept ownership and
                                             maintenance responsibilities by formal acceptance of same by the city council.
                                             Those construction plans and specifications covering completed street, drainage,
RECORD DRAWINGS:                             water line, sanitary sewer line, stormwater management improvements, or other
                                             public or private facilities constructed to support any particular subdivision
                                             development.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR:                    A land surveyor properly licensed to practice land surveying in the state of
                                             Oklahoma.
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER:            An engineer properly licensed to practice engineering in the state of Oklahoma.
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENT:                        Any supporting improvement required by the city as a condition of approval of a
                                             subdivision plat and/or development.
                                             A tract of land within a subdivision plat that is created and set aside from sale
RESERVE AREA:                                or settlement for a specific purpose and is to be either privately owned or
                                             dedicated to the public.
                                             A change in a map or plat of an approved and officially recorded subdivision to
                                             be required should such change affect: any existing street alignment or the
                                             configuration of any areas reserved thereon for public use; any lot orientation,
RESUBDIVISION:                               size, or configuration; or such other change that would affect any map or plan
                                             previously recorded legally and shall be regulated by all current regulations and
                                             requirements in effect controlling any such subdivision or resubdivision of
                                             property.
                                             A strip of land occupied, or intended to be occupied, by a street, sidewalk,
                                             railroad, roadway, electrical and communication services, oil or natural gas
                                             pipelines, water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer related improvements,
                                             shade trees, or other similar uses. The use of the term right of way, for the
                                             purpose of subdividing land, shall mean that every right of way hereafter
                                             established and illustrated on the final subdivision plat is to be separate and
RIGHT OF WAY:                                distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right of way and not intended
                                             within the dimensions or the areas of such lots, parcels, or blocks. Right of way
                                             intended for streets, sidewalks, water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer
                                             piping and structures, shade trees, or other similar uses involving construction
                                             and/or maintenance activities performed by a public agency shall be dedicated to
                                             the public ownership and use by the maker of the subdivision plat on which such
                                             right of way is established. All such dedications are subject to final approval
                                             and acceptance by the city of Glenpool as provided in this title.
                                             A system established for the purpose of providing for the development of streets,
                                             highways, roadways, and rights of way within the city of Glenpool, and for the
                                             future improvement, reconstruction, realignment, and any necessary widening,
                                             including provisions for curbs and sidewalks, for each existing street, highway,
                                             roadway, and right of way as well as those rights of way located and dedicated on
                                             approved and recorded subdivision plats as designated on the major street and
ROADWAY CLASSIFICATIONS:                     highway plan of the city of Glenpool and so classified herein. The classification
                                             of each street, highway, roadway, and right of way is based upon: its location in
                                             the respective zoning districts; its present and estimated future traffic volume;
                                             and its relative importance and function as specified in the comprehensive master
                                             plan of the city of Glenpool. The required right of way improvements shall be as
                                             set forth for each street classification designated on the major street and
                                             highway plan.
                                             Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any possessory interest in
                                             land, including contract of sale, lease, devise, intestate succession, or
SALE OR LEASE:                               transfer of interest in a subdivision of land or certain portion thereof, whether
                                             by metes and bounds description, warranty deed, contract, subdivision plat,
                                             survey, map, lease, devise, intestate succession, or other similar written
                                             document.
                                             The minimum distance between a building structure and the street right of way
SETBACK:                                     line that is contiguous with the lot, tract, or parcel as specified in the zoning
                                             ordinance adopted by the city of Glenpool and this title and as illustrated on
                                             the final subdivision plat.
                                             A sketch plan of a proposed subdivision prepared prior to the creation of the
                                             preliminary plat or that of a minor subdivision plat to enable the subdivider to
SKETCH PLAT:                                 gain insight from the city and other approving agencies as to the basic
                                             configuration of the subdivision and improvement requirements (both public and
                                             private) that will be expected to support proper development of the property.
                                             A public or private right of way that provides the primary means of access to
STREET:                                      abutting property or serves as a thoroughfare for vehicular traffic, or both, but
                                             excludes alleyways. For the purpose of this title, the following definitions
                                             shall apply:
                                             A thoroughfare designated on the major street and highway plan which carries a
   Arterial Street:                       significant portion of the interurban vehicular traffic at moderate speeds with
                                             limited traffic stops. Also see definitions of Primary Arterial Street and
                                             Secondary Arterial Street.
   Border Street:                         A street located adjacent to a railroad, drainageway, park, open space area, or a
                                             limited access highway.
   Commercial And/Or Industrial Collector A trafficway that provides vehicular access to and circulation within commercial
Street:                                      or industrial areas and also provides connections with major arterial streets or
                                             highways.
   Commercial Business District Street:   A trafficway that provides vehicular access to, and circulation within, the
                                             central business district of Glenpool.
   Commercial/ Industrial Street:         A trafficway that provides vehicular access to, and circulation within,
                                             commercial and industrial developments.
                                             A minor street with only one outlet and having a terminus designed for the safe
   Cul-De-Sac Street:                     and convenient reversal of traffic movement, including all emergency and service
                                             vehicles.
                                             Any existing street to which the parcel or tract of land being subdivided abuts
   Limited Access Street:                 only along one side. Limited access streets are to be designed to separate and
                                             limit driveway access to lots or tracts fronting on arterial type streets.
   Major Street:                          A highway, arterial, or collector street as illustrated on the Glenpool major
                                             street and highway plan.
                                             A trafficway of limited length and not classified as a major street, arterial
   Minor Street:                          street, or highway, but provides direct access to abutting lots or tracts of land
                                             and also provides access to more heavily traveled streets.
                                             A thoroughfare designated on the major street and highway plan that carries a
   Primary Arterial Street:               portion of both intraurban and interurban vehicular traffic at a moderate rate of
                                             speed and having a limited number of traffic stops.
                                             A thoroughfare designated on the major street and highway plan that is intended
   Residential Collector Street:          to move vehicular traffic from minor streets to arterial streets, including the
                                             principal entrance and circulation street, or streets, within a subdivision
                                             development.
                                             A thoroughfare designated on the major street and highway plan that carries a
   Secondary Arterial Street:             significant portion of the interurban vehicular traffic and having a limited
                                             number of traffic stops.
                                             A minor street that is parallel and adjacent to a major street, trafficway,
   Service Road And/Or Street:            highway, or railroad right of way that provides vehicular access to abutting
                                             properties and provides protection from high volume through traffic.
                                             Any person or entity who:
                                             A.   Has a title interest in the land.
                                             B.   Causes the land, directly or indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision.
                                             C.   Directly or indirectly sells, leases, or develops, offers to sell, lease, or
                                             develop, advertises for sale, lease, or development, any interest, lot, parcel,
SUBDIVIDER:                                  site, unit, or plot within a subdivision.
                                             D.   Engages directly, or through an agent in the business of selling, leasing,
                                             developing, or offering for sale, lease, or development any title interest, lot,
                                             parcel, site, unit, or plot within a subdivision.
                                             E.   Is directly or indirectly controlled by someone who is in direct or indirect
                                             common control of any of the foregoing.
                                             Any land, vacant or improved, that is divided, or proposed to be divided, into
                                             four (4) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or any other forms of title
                                             interest for the purpose of offer, sale, or lease, for a term of ten (10) or more
                                             years and whereon, there is constructed permanent structural improvements, or
SUBDIVISION:                                 other development improvements financed either on an installment plan or upon any
                                             and all other types of plans, terms, and conditions of financing including any
                                             resubdivision. The term subdivision also includes the division or development of
                                             residential property on properly zoned tracts or parcels and sold with title
                                             interest transferred by warranty deed, metes and bounds legal description,
                                             devise, intestacy, lease, map, plat, or other similar recorded instrument.
                                             Any person who represents or acts for or on behalf of a subdivider or developer
                                             in selling, leasing, or developing property or that offers to sell, lease, or
SUBDIVISION AGENT:                           develop any title interest, lot, unit, site, or plot within a subdivision, except
                                             an attorney at law whose representation of another person consists solely of
                                             rendering professional legal services.
                                             The final map or survey drawing on which the subdivider’s plan or subdivision is
SUBDIVISION PLAT:                            presented to the planning commission and the city council for approval and which,
                                             if approved, may be submitted to the Tulsa County clerk for recording purposes.
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:                     The subdivision regulations adopted by the city of Glenpool, Oklahoma.
                                             A committee composed of public officials and private utility company
                                             representatives whose purpose is to review and study all subdivision plats, lot
TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE (TAC):          split proposals, and site plan applications and to make recommendations and
                                             findings to the planning commission and the city council concerning any proposed
                                             subdivision configurations, features, and provisions.
                                             Those improvements constructed by the subdivider prior to or during construction
TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENTS:                      of subdivision related public or private permanent improvements that may or may
                                             not be replaced or superseded by the permanent improvements.
ZONING ORDINANCE:                            The zoning ordinance adopted by the city of Glenpool, Oklahoma. (Ord. 747, 11-14-
                                             2017)
 
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-3-1: Planning Commission Authority
12-3-2: Technical Advisory Committee
12-3-3: Annexed Property
12-3-4: Information Provided Electronically
12-3-5: Fees
12-3-6: Modifications
12-3-7: Amendments
12-3-8: Violation; Penalties
12-3-1: PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
The city planning commission (hereafter referred to as “planning commission”),
pursuant to the powers vested through 11 Oklahoma Statutes article XLV, does
hereby exercise the power and authority to review, approve and disapprove
survey plats for the subdivision of real property within the corporate limits
of the city. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-3-2: TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Created; Purpose: There is hereby created a subdivision technical
advisory committee (TAC). The TAC shall be responsible for collecting and
coordinating review comments and requirements for application approvals, and
shall make reports and recommendations to the planning commission pertaining to
any particular application for the subdivision of land.
   B.   Membership: The TAC shall be composed of representatives from
departments, agencies, and offices involved in the subdivision process
including, but not limited to, the following: city community development
department including planning, engineering, water and wastewater, parks, and
streets department, city police department, city fire department, city/county
or state health departments, Glenpool school board, and all private utility
suppliers and pipeline companies. The city planner, or the city planner’s
appointee, shall serve as the chairperson of the TAC and be responsible for
calling meetings, the preparation of meeting minutes, and creating and
maintaining the record of all TAC related proceedings.
   C.   Meetings: The TAC shall schedule meetings prior to planning commission
meetings and shall otherwise meet upon the call and notice issued by the
chairperson. Schedules of all TAC regular meeting dates and cutoff dates for
application submittals to be reviewed by the TAC will be posted and available
in the offices of the city planning department and the city website
(glenpoolonline.com).
   D.   Duties: It shall be the responsibility of the TAC to meet together,
upon notice given by the city planner and/or the chairperson, to review and
study all applications for approval regarding preliminary subdivision plats,
final subdivision plats, and all lot splits and to submit its findings and
recommendations to the planning commission for their consideration. (Ord. 747,
11-14-2017)
12-3-3: ANNEXED PROPERTY:
For any land annexed within the corporate limits of the city which has been
rezoned to a classification other than for agriculture (AG), no building permit
shall be issued until that portion of the tract on which the permit is sought
has been included within a subdivision plat or replat, as the case may be. Such
subdivision plat shall have been submitted to, and approved by, the planning
commission and city council and filed of record in the office of the Tulsa
County clerk. The planning commission, upon a showing that the purposes of this
title have already been achieved by a previously approved subdivision or would
not be achieved by a subdivision plat or replat, may, at its discretion, waive
the requirement for a subdivision plat or replat. (Ord. 747, 11-14-20172)
12-3-4: INFORMATION PROVIDED ELECTRONICALLY:
All subdividers shall provide the city planning and engineering departments
with electronic portable data files (PDF) regarding all drawings submitted for
subdivision preliminary and final plat or lot split review along with PDFs
depicting all public and private subdivision development improvement design
documents which support any such subdivision plat or lot split application.
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-3-5: FEES:
All applications for preliminary subdivision plat, final subdivision plat, and
lot split reviews shall be charged a fee for any such review and processing by
the city planning department. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-3-6: MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Authority; Restrictions: The design requirements set forth in this
title may be modified by the planning commission where unusual topographic or
other exceptional conditions exist that require such modifications, but only to
the extent the planning commission determines that the purpose of this title
may be better served by an alternate proposal or design. The planning
commission shall not approve any modification to the procedural requirements of
this title or other such modifications where the granting of such will be:
detrimental to the safety, health, or general welfare of the public; injurious
to other public or private property or improvements; or where the granting of
such modification will diminish in any way the intent of this title, any
governing underlying zoning requirements, or the comprehensive master plan
adopted by the city.
   B.   Conditions: In approving modifications to this title, the planning
commission may require such additional or specific conditions as will, in its
judgment, maintain and substantially secure the intent, objectives, standards,
and requirements of this title.
   C.   Request For Modification: A request for any such modification shall be
submitted to the city planning staff at the time when the sketch or preliminary
subdivision plat is submitted for consideration by the planning commission. The
request for modification to this title shall state fully the desired
modification and the grounds for such modification along with all supporting
facts that may justify any such consideration by the planning commission.
   D.   Approval: Any such modification may be granted only by the affirmative
vote of a majority of the members of the planning commission and shall be
subject to the subsequent majority vote regarding the approval of the
subdivision plat and the dedications specified thereon by the city council.
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-3-7: AMENDMENTS:
For the purpose of providing for the health, safety, convenience, and general
welfare of the public, the planning commission may, from time to time,
recommend amendments to the provisions of this title. Public hearings on all
such proposed amendments shall be held by the planning commission in a manner
prescribed by law. The resulting recommendations of the planning commission
regarding amendments to this title shall then be forwarded to the city council
for consideration, final approval, and formal adoption by ordinance. (Ord. 747,
11-14-2017)
12-3-8: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this title, or shall fail to comply therewith, shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in the municipal bond schedule adopted by
the governing body as provided in section
1-11-19 of this code. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate
offense. In addition to the remedies provided herein, the city may institute
any other action or proceedings at law to enforce this title. (Ord. 747, 11-14-
2017)
CHAPTER 4
DEVELOPER AND CITY RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
Transportation Responsibilities
12-4-1: Responsibilities Of The Subdivider Or Developer
12-4-2: Essential Nexus
12-4-3: Street Improvements Required
12-4-4: Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA)
12-4-5: Mitigation And Rough Proportionality
12-4-6: Mitigation Limitations And Exemptions
Utility Responsibilities
12-4-7: Utility Responsibilities
TRANSPORTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
12-4-1: RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SUBDIVIDER OR DEVELOPER:
   A.   Responsibility for Transportation Improvements. The subdivider or
developer is responsible for all design, engineering, labor, and construction
expenses for transportation related improvements required by:
      1.   Title 12, as a requirement of the subdivision process, including the
City Engineering Design Criteria.
      2.   The recommendations of the major street and highway plan and any
other regional transportation plans.
      3.   The need for transportation improvements resulting from a site plan
or any other development process described in Title 11.
   B.   Limitation. The subdivider or developer is not responsible for
improvements to the extent that this Subchapter specifically requires full or
partial payment for transportation improvements by the City.
   C.   Transportation Improvements Required. Except where limited in this
Subchapter, the subdivider or developer is responsible for:
      1.   Providing public streets, sidewalks, and, when applicable, trails,
that comply with all City Engineering Design Criteria and requirements.
      2.   Extending and connecting existing public streets, sidewalks, and,
where applicable, trails, with existing or proposed streets, sidewalks, and
trails.
      3.   Providing all necessary property interests, including rights-of-way,
and where necessary, easements, for proposed public streets, sidewalks, and
trails.
      4.   Providing reports and inspection results showing that proposed
public streets, sidewalks, and trails will be, and were, constructed in
accordance with all City Engineering Design Criteria and requirements.
      5.   Providing the expansion or extension of public streets, sidewalks,
and trails, as shown on approved City plans, particularly the major street and
highway plan, and regional transportation plans, to serve future development.
      6.   Providing for the initial operation, maintenance, and warranty of
public streets, sidewalks, and trails.
      7.   Providing fiscal security required to warranty the construction of
the public streets, sidewalks, and trails.
      8.   Complying with all requirements of the utility providers, including
the City, with respect to utilities located adjacent to, or within, the public
right-of-way.
   D.   No Other Dedication or Construction Required. Nothing in this
Subchapter is construed to require any dedication or construction that is not
explicitly required by the standards of this Title or the City Engineering
Design Criteria, the major street and highway plan, or any regional
transportation plans.
   E.   Off-Site/Perimeter Road Improvements.
      1.   When a subdivision or development is proposed to be located adjacent
to, or served by, a street that does not meet the minimum standards of the City
for roadway construction, pavement design, pavement width, street drainage, or
right-of-way width:
         a.   The subdivider or developer shall provide improvements to the
substandard street or intersections, as necessary to mitigate traffic impacts
generated by the subdivision or proposed development, as set out in Section
12-4-3, Street Improvements Required. Required street improvements shall be
established through the completion of a Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) that
meets the minimum standards specified in Section
12-4-4, Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA).
         b.   The City may, at its discretion, participate in the costs to
oversize improvements by executing a Privately Financed Public Improvements
(PFPI) agreement with the subdivider or developer.
      2.   Where a subdivision is adjacent to or served by an Oklahoma
Department of Transportation (ODOT) highway, the City, in collaboration with
ODOT, shall make a determination whether developer participation in the “fair
share” cost of any improvements, or if the dedication of right-of-way or any
other improvements, such as, but not limited to, drainage or utility
relocation, is required. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-4-2: ESSENTIAL NEXUS:
   A.   Support for New Development.
      1.   New development must be supported by adequate levels of
transportation services, as required and defined in this Subchapter and as
limited by Section
12-4-6, Mitigation Limitations and Exemptions.
      2.   It is necessary and desirable to provide the dedication of rights-
of-way and easements for capital improvements, as limited by Section
12-4-6, Mitigation Limitations and Exemptions, to support new development at
the earliest stage of the development process.
   B.   Essential Nexus. There is an essential nexus between the demand on
public facility systems generated by a new development and the requirement to
dedicate rights-of-way and easements and to construct capital improvements to
offset such impacts.
   C.   Developer Obligations, Dedication, and Construction of Improvements.
The subdivider or developer shall dedicate all rights-of-way and easements
necessary for public streets, sidewalks, and, where applicable, trails, to
adequately serve a proposed development, consistent with the major street and
highway plan, any regional transportation plans, and City Engineering Design
Criteria, as limited by Section
12-4-6, Mitigation Limitations and Exemptions.
   D.   Timing of Dedication and Construction.
      1.   Initial Provision for Dedication or Construction.
         a.   The City shall require the submittal of a preliminary Traffic
Impact Analysis (TIA) demonstrating that a proposed development can be
adequately served by existing public facilities and services at the time for
approval of the first development application that portrays a specific plan of
development, or if off-site improvements, such as, but not limited to, a
traffic signal or turn lane, will be required to adequately serve the
development at an acceptable Level of Service.
         b.   As a condition of approval, the City may require the dedication
of rights-of-way or easements and the construction of on- or off-site capital
improvements to serve the proposed development, consistent with the major
street and highway plan, regional transportation plans, or the TIA
recommendations.
      2.   Deferral of Obligations.
         a.   The obligations to dedicate rights-of-way or to construct
improvements to serve a new development may be deferred until approval of a
subsequent phase of development or development on the opposite side of a right-
of-way, at the sole discretion of the City, upon written request of the
subdivider or developer, or at the City’s initiative.
         b.   As a condition of deferring the transportation obligations, the
City may require that the subdivider or developer enter into a Privately
Financed Public Improvements (PFPI) agreement in a form acceptable to the City
Attorney.
         c.   The City Council reserves the right to specify the timing and
sequencing or any other aspect of the deferred improvement, as a condition of
the deferral of obligation.
   E.   Relief from Obligations for Substandard Boundary Streets.
      1.   In order to achieve proportionality between the demands created by a
proposed development on existing transportation facilities and the obligation
of the developer to provide adequate transportation facilities, as limited by
Section
12-4-6, Mitigation Limitations and Exemptions, the City Council may elect to
have the City participate in the cost of improving an existing substandard
street.
      2.   At the discretion of City Council, the City may agree to relieve the
developer of some portion of the obligations of improving the substandard
boundary street in response to a petition for relief from a dedication or
construction requirement by the subdivider or developer, as set out in Section
12-4-3, Street Improvements Required.
      3.   Consideration for relief from the obligations of the subdivider or
developer shall be assessed by the City in accordance with Section
12-4-6, Mitigation Limitations and Exemptions.
   F.   Reimbursement Agreement. If public street improvements are designed and
constructed by the initial subdivider or developer in accordance with the City
Engineering Design Criteria, major street and highway plan or a regional
transportation plan, the subdivider or developer may be eligible for
reimbursement by adjoining property owners connecting to the public street
improvements based on the ratio of the connector’s linear front footage to the
total linear footage of the public street improvements.
      1.   If the connecting property fronts on or is contiguous on only one
side of the public street, the connecting property owner may be responsible for
up to a 50 percent reimbursement of the construction cost for that frontage; or
      2.   If the connecting property fronts on or is contiguous on both sides
of the public street, the connecting property owner may be responsible for up
to a 100 percent reimbursement of the construction cost for that frontage.
In order to be eligible for reimbursement for transportation improvements,
subdividers or developers must execute a Reimbursement Agreement in a form that
is acceptable to the City Attorney and approved by the City Council.
   G.   Development and Public Improvement Agreements. The City Council, at its
discretion, may approve a Privately Financed Public Improvements (PFPI)
agreement or other form of agreement to share in the expense of essential
public transportation improvements when the future needs of the public exceed
the fair share requirements to provide public improvements to a specific
development. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-4-3: STREET IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Improvements Required. When a proposed plat abuts one side of an
existing substandard street, or a future street designated on the major street
and highway plan, the subdivider or developer is required to:
      1.   Dedicate adequate rights-of-way.
      2.   Improve streets, including appurtenant sidewalks, paths, bikeways,
barrier-free ramps, stormwater drainage facilities, median openings, and left
turn lanes, and ensure water quality by providing temporary (during
construction) and permanent erosion control improvements and utilities to the
City Engineering Design Criteria, and the criteria of the affected utility
provider.
      3.   Construct or replace the street and appurtenant improvements to City
Engineering Design Criteria, at no expense to the City.
   B.   Calculation of Cost.
      1.   The subdivider share for physical improvements to a substandard
boundary street or a proposed street designated on the major street and highway
plan is one-half of the pavement and right-of-way width of the street. The
substandard street shall be designed in accordance with the City Engineering
Design Criteria and the major street and highway plan requirements for the
length of frontage adjoining the subdivision or development.
      2.   The subdivider share for physical improvements to a substandard
street or a proposed street designated on the major street and highway plan,
where a subdivision or development will be on each side of a substandard or a
future street, is the full pavement and right-of-way width. The street shall be
designed in accordance with the City Engineering Design Criteria where each
side of the street adjoins both sides of the subdivision or development.
      3.   The City may elect to participate in the cost of improving the
substandard perimeter street or proposed street in excess of the developer’s
fair share obligations where such costs are not borne by another public entity,
and in cases where the application of the standards of this Subchapter may
result in a disproportional burden on the subdivision or development, as
determined by the City Engineer and approved by the City Council.
      4.   The City Council may defer the initiation of required improvements,
as set out in Section
12-4-2, Subsection D.2, Deferral of Obligations.
   C.   Improvements to Substandard Streets.
      1.   All substandard streets that border a subdivision or development
shall be improved, or provisions shall be established for their eventual
improvement to City standards.
      2.   If a subdivider or developer elects to widen the pavement of an
existing street, the existing pavement shall be cut back a distance required by
the City Engineer to assure adequate sub-base and pavement joint before
additional paving material is installed.
      3.   If a subdivider or developer elects to improve the pavement of an
existing street to meet current standards, the subdivider or developer shall be
required to submit construction plans for such improvements and provide
evidence as deemed to be sufficient by the City Engineer to demonstrate that
the street meets City standards, before the City will consider accepting the
improvements.
      4.   When a proposed subdivision or development abuts both sides of an
existing substandard street, or a future street designated on the major street
and highway plan, the subdivider or developer is required to complete all of
the requirements listed above for each side of the street.
   D.   Existing Boundary Street Minimum Requirements. For existing boundary
streets, regardless of their existing condition, the following minimum
standards shall apply:
      1.   The subdivider or developer shall dedicate additional rights-of-way
as necessary to complete the desired border street width from the desired
street centerline to the final edge of right-of-way. Dedication of more than
half this additional increment may be required, in some instances, to maximize
use of the existing roadway or to ensure a consistent street alignment with a
minimum of undesirable curvature.
      2.   If a subdivision or development includes no more than four lots, the
subdivider or developer is only required to dedicate an amount of right-of-way
necessary to improve the border street to City standards, but is not required
to improve the street. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-4-4: TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS (TIA):
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of a TIA is to:
      1.   Assess the effects of a proposed development on the existing and
planned roadway systems.
      2.   Determine improvements necessary to mitigate negative traffic
impacts from a proposed development.
      3.   Determine roughly proportionate responsibilities for the sharing of
traffic mitigation expenses to be borne by the City and the subdivider or
developer.
      4.   Ensure that the major street network for Glenpool is based on the
operational values of Level of Service Category D, or better, as a minimum
criterion for design purposes. Level of Service D is the industry standard for
traffic operations that balances vehicle movement, impacts on neighborhoods,
and expenses to developers and the public.
   B.   Applicability. A TIA is required to be submitted at the time of
platting or site plan review only for developments that exceed any threshold
described below. The City reserves the right to require a TIA for land
developments that do not meet the threshold requirements but may impact a
sensitive area with traffic issues or may be a known public concern.
      1.   Development that generates more than 100 Peak Hour Trips (PHT).
      2.   Development that generates more than 5,000 vehicle trips per day
(VTD).
      3.   Development where more than 40 acres of property are involved and
impacted by the development. Minor subdivisions or low intensity developments
on larger parcels do not require a TIA.
      4.   Development that would result in an amendment to the major street
and highway plan.
      5.   Land uses that have unusually high traffic generation, fleet vehicle
characteristics, or involve special traffic design considerations, such as
regularly occurring oversized, or slow moving, vehicles that require special
traffic geometry designs.
   C.   Required Findings of a TIA. For purposes of enforcing the requirements
in this Section, the TIA shall identify the following:
      1.   The existing, and known proposed, background traffic not created or
associated with traffic generated by the proposed development.
      2.   The projected traffic volumes calculated to be present after a
project is completed in the TIA study area.
      3.   Existing and anticipated traffic queues of vehicles stacking to make
a traffic movement in the TIA study area.
      4.   Existing and anticipated trip distribution of the percentage
estimates per turning movement from the proposed development.
      5.   A Trip Generation Summary, in tabular form, that summarizes existing
and anticipated trip generation characteristics of a development for an entire
day, including A.M. and P.M. peak periods, rates, units, and all assumptions
used to calculate the number of anticipated trips.
   D.   TIA Responsibility. The primary responsibility for assessing the
traffic impacts associated with a proposed development rests with the
applicant. The City serves in a review capacity for this process. Both the City
and subdivider or developer share responsibility to consider all reasonable
solutions to mitigate transportation problems identified through the study
process. The TIA must be prepared, signed, and sealed by a professional traffic
operations engineer registered to practice in Oklahoma, with experience
sufficient to assess traffic impacts.
   E.   TIA Scope Assessment.
      1.   Prior to the initiation of a TIA, the subdivider or developer and
the representing engineer shall meet with the City Engineer to formally
determine the scope of the TIA. The TIA scope will be sufficiently scaled to
reflect the traffic impacts of the proposed use necessitating the TIA and shall
include pedestrian and bicycle analysis.
      2.   Once the scope of the TIA is established, the City Engineer will
formally stipulate the scope in writing.
      3.   The City Engineer reserves the right to expand or contract the TIA
scope as additional details about the proposed use are ascertained, based on
generally accepted traffic engineering practices.
      4.   If the TIA pertains to ODOT system highways, a representative from
ODOT shall also be involved in the scope assessment and in the TIA approval
process.
   F.   TIA Review. The TIA shall be reviewed by the City Engineer and any
other necessary review authorities, including ODOT if the project is located on
an ODOT system highway, and Tulsa County, when applicable. Review comments
shall be provided to the applicant for response.
   G.   City Assistance in Improvements. During the course of making required
traffic improvements identified through the TIA, the City, at its discretion,
may elect to partner with the subdivider or developer and use its governmental
powers to assist in the timely and cost effective implementation of
improvements. Specifically, the City may agree to provide any of the following
forms of assistance:
      1.   Acquisition of necessary rights-of-way and easements.
      2.   Relocation of utilities.
      3.   Obtaining approvals from Tulsa County or ODOT.
      4.   Entering into any legal agreement permitted by the statutes of the
State of Oklahoma.
   H.   TIA Revisions. Periodic updates or revisions to the TIA may be required
to address issues or identify changes to the Level of Service at study
intersections and streets. These updates shall address modifications to the
magnitude and timing of improvements recommended by the original TIA. Any TIA
amendment must be acceptable to the City, and Tulsa County or ODOT, when
applicable.
   I.   Off-Site Improvements.
      1.   Based on the TIA results and other instances where the City finds
that public safety is at risk, the subdivider or developer may be required to
make improvements to off-site streets and intersections to mitigate traffic
impacts generated by the subdivision or development.
      2.   When off-site improvements are required, they shall be roughly
proportional to the impact of the proposed subdivision or development.
      3.   The City may participate in the costs of oversizing public
improvements with the subdivider or developer, subject to the City’s cost
participation policies and procedures.
   J.   Construction Easements. Temporary construction easements, in addition
to rights-of-way, may be required when adequate width for street and/or utility
construction staging is not available. The subdivider or developer is
responsible for obtaining any required temporary construction easements. (Ord.
747, 11-14-2017)
12-4-5: MITIGATION AND ROUGH PROPORTIONALITY:
   A.   Purposes. One of the primary purposes of Section
12-4-4, Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA), is to determine the roughly
proportionate responsibilities for the sharing of traffic mitigation expenses
to be borne by the City and the subdivider or developer, to implement:
      1.   The major street and highway plan and any applicable regional
transportation plans.
      2.   City Engineering Design Criteria and the requirements of Title 12.
      3.   The funding of the required transportation improvements identified
in Section
12-4-4, Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA).
   B.   Determination. Minimum areas to be addressed in roughly proportionate
determination include:
      1.   Right-of-way dedication for adjacent exterior streets.
      2.   Improvements to substandard transportation facilities.
      3.   Projecting and aligning streets to provide mobility and reduce
traffic congestion.
      4.   Right-of-way dedication and the construction of streets identified
in the major street and highway plan and any applicable regional transportation
plans.
      5.   Upgrading existing traffic signals and/or installing new traffic
signals or other traffic control devices to accommodate the growth of the City
and the impacts of new development.
      6.   Adding acceleration, deceleration, or turn lanes where necessary to
achieve the required Level of Service for new and existing development.
      7.   Any other improvements identified in the TIA.
      8.   Identifying the roughly proportionate costs of transportation
improvements to be borne by the subdivider or developer and the City.
   C.   Phased Development. For phased development projects:
      1.   Implementation of the mitigation improvements must be completed no
later than the completion of the project phase for which the TIA showed the
improvements were required.
      2.   Plats for project phases subsequent to a phase for which a
mitigation improvement is required may be approved only if the mitigation
improvements are completed or bonded by the subdivider or developer.
   D.   TIA Recommendations. At the conclusion of the TIA, the report shall
summarize all mitigation improvements identified in the TIA and the approximate
cost of all such improvements including design, engineering, and construction.
Mitigation improvements that serve only the proposed development, such as, but
not limited to, turn lanes or a traffic signal that facilitates egress into and
out of the subject subdivision or development, but provides minimal or no
benefit to the study area roadway network, shall not be included in the cost of
the mitigation improvements.
   E.   Methodology. The methodology to be utilized to complete the TIA, and to
review the findings and recommendations of the TIA, shall be as follows:
      1.   The maximum amount of improvements attributable to a development is
roughly proportional to the demand created by the development. This value is
determined by multiplying the following values:
         a.   Intensity of the development, using the independent variable
identified in the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation
Manual, such as, but not limited to, the number of dwelling units in large
residential developments; the peak average trips generated per 1,000 square
feet of leasable floor area for larger scale developments that collectively
have high traffic generating characteristics, such as a shopping center or
large scale retail business; or large scale industrial or heavy commercial
developments that typically utilize oversized vehicles and/or semi-tractor
trailers on a daily basis;
         b.   Number of vehicles, using the peak hour trip generation rate for
the applicable peak hour from the most current version of the ITE Trip
Generation Manual;
         c.   Anticipated trip length to and from the development on the City’s
major street network, with a minimum value of one mile and a maximum value of
1.5 miles being applicable;
         d.   Special traffic characteristics, such an operations that require
a significant number of slow-turning traffic movements by semi-trucks or other
over-sized vehicles and therefore require special road geometry and traffic
signal consideration, such as, but not limited to, oil-field service vehicles
or fleet semi-tractor trailer service; and
         e.   Cost per vehicle-mile, using the average cost per vehicle-mile
for the City to deliver a typical roadway capacity improvement project based on
the current City Engineer estimates.
      2.   The Average Unit Price List and methodology shall be reviewed by the
City Engineer annually to ensure that the Average Unit Price List and
methodology are consistent with current costs and engineering assumptions.
   F.   Determining Value of Improvements. The TIA engineer for the subdivider
or developer shall:
      1.   Utilize a methodology preapproved by the City Engineer to determine
the maximum valuation of improvements that may be attributable to the proposed
development.
      2.   Then compare the cost of the mitigation improvements to the maximum
probable amount of improvements attributable to the development.
   G.   Less Than or Equal. If the valuation of the mitigation improvements is
less than or equal to the maximum amount of improvements attributable to the
development, then the mitigation improvements identified in the TIA are
considered to be roughly proportionate to the impact of the development.
   H.   Greater Than. If the valuation of the mitigation improvements is
greater than the maximum amount of improvements attributable to the
development, then the mitigation improvements identified in the TIA are limited
to an amount roughly equal to the maximum valuation of the improvements
attributable to the development. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-4-6: MITIGATION LIMITATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Limitations. Limitations on traffic impact mitigation requirements
include improvements that have been identified by the TIA and that are already
planned and funded through a City or other public capital improvement project
that exceeds the proposed traffic mitigation measures recommended in the TIA.
In this case, such mitigation improvements are not required. To qualify for
this exemption:
      1.   The capital improvement project must be planned to be awarded to a
contractor for construction within one year following the completion of the
development approval that required the improvement as a traffic mitigation
improvement; and
      2.   Credit may only be provided for improvements that directly correlate
to a proportionate percentage of the capital improvement.
   B.   Determination of Waivers. Traffic mitigation improvements may be waived
if the City Council makes one of the following determinations:
      1.   A proposed development has an interconnected street system or is a
mixed-use development and includes pedestrian facilities that will result in
fewer trips than isolated, low-density subdivisions; or
      2.   A proposed development approved as a Planned Unit Development (PUD)
will produce fewer and shorter trips than developments subject to conventional
zoning. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
UTILITY RESPONSIBILITIES
12-4-7: UTILITY RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Roughly Proportionate Fair Share.
      1.   The roughly proportionate fair share utility obligations of the
subdivider or developer are:
         a.   The full cost of all design, engineering, labor, and construction
that is roughly proportional to the utility improvements required by the City
Engineering Design Criteria, Title 12, and the criteria of each utility
provider.
         b.   The provision of adequate levels of utility services to all
developments, sites, subdivisions, and resubdivisions in compliance with all
City Construction Codes.
      2.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to require or to allow
public improvements that are not explicitly required by the standards within
this Code, City Engineering Design Criteria, applicable Building, Fire, and
Life Safety Codes, and requirements of each utility.
      3.   The subdivider or developer is responsible for the roughly
proportional cost of:
         a.   Phasing development improvements in order to ensure the provision
of adequate utility services;
         b.   Extending public facilities, including any necessary on- and off-
site facilities, to connect to existing utility facilities;
         c.   Providing and/or procuring all necessary property interests,
including rights-of-way and easements, for the utility facilities, whether on-
or off-site;
         d.   Providing proof to the City of adequate utility facilities;
         e.   Providing for the operation and maintenance of the utilities, or
providing proof that a separate entity will be responsible for the operation
and maintenance of the utilities;
         f.   Providing fiscal security required for the construction of the
utility facilities;
         g.   Obtaining approvals from all applicable utility providers,
including the City; and
         h.   Providing levels of utility services that meet all minimum
utility standards that are roughly proportional to the demand generated by the
development, as required by the City Engineering Design Criteria and all
applicable Building, Fire, and Life Safety Codes.
   B.   Essential Nexus. There is an essential nexus between the demand on
public facility systems created by a new development and the requirement to
dedicate rights-of-way and easements and to construct capital improvements to
offset such impacts.
   C.   Timing of Dedication and Construction.
      1.   Initial Provision for Dedication or Construction.
         a.   The City shall require an initial demonstration that a proposed
development shall be adequately served by public facilities and services at the
time for approval of the first development application that portrays a specific
plan of development.
         b.   As a condition of approval, the City may require provision for
the dedication of easements or rights-of-way for, and construction of, capital
improvements to serve the proposed development, as required by the City
Engineering Design Criteria and all applicable Building, Fire, and Life Safety
Codes.
      2.   Deferral of Obligation.
         a.   The obligation to construct one or more capital improvements to
serve a new development may be deferred until approval of a subsequent phase of
development, at the sole discretion of the City, upon written request of the
subdivider or developer, or at the City’s initiative.
         b.   As a condition of approving a deferral, the City may require the
subdivider or developer to enter into a deferral agreement in a form acceptable
to the City Attorney.
         c.   The City Council reserves the right to specify the timing and
sequencing or any other aspect of the deferred improvement, as a condition of
the deferral of obligation.
   D.   Roughly Proportionate Fair Share Responsibility When Adjoining
Substandard or Nonexistent Utility Facilities.
      1.   When a proposed development abuts property with existing substandard
utilities or no utilities, the subdivider or developer is required to provide a
roughly proportional share of the utility facilities to adequately serve the
proposed development in accordance with the City Engineering Design Criteria
and all applicable Building, Fire and Life Safety Codes, at no expense to the
City.
      2.   If an adjoining property with substandard or nonexistent utilities
is identified as a capital improvement project related to water or wastewater,
the roughly proportionate responsibilities of the subdivider or developer may
be affected, as set out in Subsection F, Relief from Obligations, below.
   E.   Calculation of Cost. The subdivider or developer’s responsibility to
improve any substandard utilities or to extend utilities may include the
complete cost of the required improvements, to achieve a Level of Service to
adequately serve the proposed development to the standards and requirements of
this Title and the City Engineering Design Criteria.
   F.   Relief from Obligations. The City Council, at its discretion, may grant
relief from the roughly proportionate fair share utility obligations and
responsibilities of a subdivider or developer if the City Council finds that
the required improvements:
      1.   Would complete, or facilitate the completion, of a capital
improvement project that is under construction or that has been funded by the
City.
      2.   Would result in the subdivider or developer paying more than a
roughly proportional share of the cost of the improvements, as determined by
the City Engineer and Community Development Director.
      3.   Are necessary to address a significant public health, safety, or
economic development issue; or
      4.   Are specified in an approved utility plan or capital improvements
program.
   G.   Privately Financed Public Improvements (PFPI) Agreement.
      1.   If water and/or sanitary sewer infrastructure will be constructed by
the initial developer in accordance with the City Engineering Design Criteria,
the subdivider or developer may be eligible for reimbursement by adjoining
owners connecting to the public utilities based on the ratio of a connector’s
linear front footage to the total linear footage of the infrastructure.
         a.   If the connecting property fronts on or is contiguous on only one
side of the subject infrastructure, the connecting property owner may be
responsible for up to a 50 percent reimbursement of the construction cost for
that frontage.
         b.   If the connecting property fronts on, or is contiguous on both
sides of the subject infrastructure, the connecting property owner may be
responsible for up to a 100 percent reimbursement of the construction cost for
that frontage.
      2.   In the event that an adjoining property desires to connect to
utility infrastructure that is not contiguous or does not front on right-of-way
or an easement where water and/or sanitary sewer infrastructure was constructed
by the initial developer:
         a.   The City Engineer must determine if the subdivision plat for the
initial developer would require less capacity than projected in the initial
developer’s PFPI Agreement.
         b.   If the City Engineer determines that less capacity is required,
then the construction cost to be reimbursed to the initial developer shall be
adjusted based on the projected capacity required by the connecting subdivision
plats, excluding the property that did not connect to the utility. The
reimbursement amount for the remaining properties not yet connected shall not
be changed from the amounts shown in the PFPI Agreement as a result of this
event.
      3.   In order to be eligible for reimbursement for connections to public
water and/or sanitary sewer improvements, subdividers or developers must
execute a PFPI Agreement in a form that is acceptable to the City Attorney and
approved by the City Council.
   H.   Subdivider or Developer Extension of Utility Services. All utility
services shall be extended by the subdivider or developer as set out below:
      1.   Extension of all utility lines shall be made along the entire
frontage of the subdivision or development adjacent to a street or right-of-
way, per the City Engineering Design Criteria or the criteria of the affected
utility.
      2.   If the subdivision or development is not adjacent, or natural or
man-made constraints preclude the extension of utilities along public rights-
of-way, the subdivider or developer, in consultation with the City Engineer or
an agent from the affected utility, may consider an alternative location for
utilities, provided that the alternative method will facilitate the future
extension of the utilities and development of all adjoining properties.
      3.   If natural or man-made constraints, or other engineering
considerations, prevent the extension of utilities to adjoining properties, the
City Manager, in consultation with the City Engineer or an agent from the
affected utility, may waive the requirement to extend utilities to such a
property, and may dead-end a utility in accordance with generally accepted
engineering and utility practices and all applicable Building, Fire, and Life
Safety Codes.
   I.   City Utility Extension and Connection Responsibilities.
      1.   Except when expressly stipulated in conjunction with an annexation,
the City is not obligated to extend water or sanitary sewer lines to provide
services at the expense of the City.
      2.   The City may allow subdividers, developers, or property owners to
tie onto existing City water and sanitary sewer mains when they bear the
expense of extending the service line to their property. Any property within
500 feet of a City sanitary sewer main shall tie into such main at the sole
expense of the subdivider, developer, or property owner so that the property
will utilize a public sanitary sewer collection system rather than individual
private sewerage treatment facilities.
      3.   Requests for a utility connection shall be made to the City
Engineer. Requests that are denied may be appealed to the City Council.
      4.   The City shall not require any use, lot, or acreage, in existence
prior to its annexation into the City, to connect to a public or private water
system unless the City determines that a connection is necessary to:
         a.   Prevent destruction of property or injury to persons.
         b.   Remove or mitigate a public nuisance.
         c.   Satisfy applicable Building, Fire, or Life Safety Codes related
to the storage or use of hazardous substances or processes.
      5.   If the City determines that a utility connection is necessary, the
City shall:
         a.   Provide due notice to the affected property owner.
         b.   Allow the owner up to one year from the date of the City’s
initial notice to make the required service connection.
   J.   Required Excess Capacity.
      1.   Where the size of water or sanitary sewer lines required to meet the
ultimate requirements of the City is larger than the minimum size of line
needed to comply with the obligations of the subdivider or developer, the City
may enter into a Privately Financed Public Improvements (PFPI) agreement with
the developer for excess capacity.
The City shall provide reimbursement to the subdivider or developer for
required excess capacity based on the difference between the cost of the
minimum line required to be installed and the cost of installing the line size
requested by the City. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 5
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-5-1: Application Procedures Generally
12-5-2: Sketch Plat
12-5-3: Preliminary Plat And Preliminary Infrastructure Construction Documents
12-5-4: Final Construction Documents
12-5-5: Final Plat
12-5-6: Planned Unit Development
12-5-1: APPLICATION PROCEDURES GENERALLY:
The procedure for processing a subdivision plat under this title is shown in
section
12-9-1, figure 1 of this title. A detailed written description of this process
is included in this chapter. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-5-2: SKETCH PLAT:
   A.   Before preparing the preliminary subdivision plat for a proposed
subdivision, the subdivider is required to prepare a subdivision sketch plat
following a preliminary project conference with city community development and
planning staff members. During this preliminary meeting, the subdivider will be
advised of or provided with the following items and information:
      1.   Identification of all required city approvals and the procedures for
obtaining those required approvals related to the overall processing of a
subdivision plat;
      2.   Relevant provisions of the city comprehensive master plan, city
zoning regulations, this title, engineering design criteria and standards,
landscaping requirements, and other development related regulations that may
apply;
      3.   Requirements as to the general layout of streets; the reservations
of land for uses such as parks, floodplains, and open spaces; street
improvement design issues; stormwater management considerations; public water
and sewerage service requirements, fire protection, and other similar matters
that may apply;
      4.   The determination of the availability and location of existing
public and private utility services needed to provide adequate service to the
proposed subdivision;
      5.   Where appropriate, the proposed subdivision shall also be discussed
with those other city officials and departmental staff that will be involved
with the approval of the various aspects of the subdivision plat and related
improvements pertaining to their jurisdiction.
   B.   The following procedures must be followed in the processing of a
subdivision sketch plat:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) paper copies and an electronic copy (PDF) of
any subdivision sketch plat; a fully completed subdivision plat review
application as found on the city website (glenpoolonline.com); any required
processing fee; and shall be submitted to the city community development or
planning staff at least ten (10) working days prior to the next scheduled
meeting of the technical advisory committee (TAC) in compliance with the
submittal cutoff dates posted in the annual city planning department processing
calendar as also found on the city website (glenpoolonline.com).
      2.   The city planning staff shall transmit the subdivision sketch plat
documents as submitted by the developer electronically to members of the TAC
and the appropriate city officials or other governmental agencies for review.
      3.   The TAC members shall review the submitted subdivision sketch plat
and shall either meet in the form of an actual TAC meeting at the city
community development department in accordance with the published meeting dates
or such members shall forward to the city community development and planning
staff electronically any comments, considerations, or requirements they may
have regarding the intent of the subdivider’s plan to develop the subject
property. At the discretion of the community development department staff, it
shall be determined whether a formal meeting of the TAC is necessary as a
result of the TAC review by individual members and the review of any other
public or private entities having interest in the project.
The city community development department shall prepare a formal staff report
for the project which shall include and list all comments, requirements, and
recommendations resulting from city staff and TAC review and shall forward said
report to the city planning commission (planning commission) to be presented by
the subdivider and city planning staff at the next regularly scheduled public
meeting.
      4.   Prior to the scheduled planning commission public meeting, the
planning commission members shall independently review the proposed subdivision
sketch plat in consideration of all city community development and planning
staff and TAC recommendations and requirements. Any additional considerations
or recommendations arising from the subdivision sketch plat review by the
planning commission members independently shall be discussed in detail at the
planning commission meeting. After review and discussion of the subdivision
sketch plat, along with the recommendations and reports of the city community
development and planning staff and the TAC, the planning commission shall
advise the subdivider of any specific changes or additions that will be
required in the layout, character, and extent of required improvements, and any
additional reservations and considerations that will be required as
prerequisite to any preliminary and final approvals of the subdivision plat.
The planning commission may also require additional changes to the proposed
subdivision in later stages of the review and approval process as a result of
further study and after the review of the elements of the proposed preliminary
and final subdivision plats.
      5.   The planning commission shall formally approve or disapprove the
subdivision sketch plat by open vote, taking into consideration the community
development and planning staff requirements, TAC recommendations and
requirements, any additional planning commission comments and requirements, and
any other matters relevant to the proposed subdivision.
      6.   All city staff review comments and requirements, TAC review and
comments, and any additional comments and requirements arising from the
planning commission approval shall be identified and listed in a final report
prepared by city planning staff and issued to the subdivider. The subdivider
shall be expected to address all listed comments, recommendations, and
requirements in the preparation and development of any future preliminary and
final subdivision plats required for the proposed project. (Ord. 747, 11-14-
2017)
12-5-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT AND PRELIMINARY INFRASTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS:
   A.   Application And Processing Procedures And Requirements: The following
procedures must be followed in the processing of a preliminary subdivision plat
and preliminary infrastructure construction documents that are required to
support the development of the project: The subdivider shall submit to the city
community development and planning department a preliminary subdivision plat
for approval. Such application submittal shall include a minimum of two (2)
paper copies and one electronic (PDF) copy of the preliminary subdivision plat
and the preliminary construction documents covering all infrastructure
improvements required to support the project. The preliminary subdivision plat
submittal shall:
      1.   Be accompanied by a fully completed application form obtained from
the city website (glenpoolonline.com) and shall include the associated
processing fee; a list of all abutting property owners of record as listed in
the office of the county clerk that has been compiled by a fully bonded
abstract and title company; and a minimum of two (2) paper copies and one
electronic (PDF) copy of the preliminary construction documents covering the
public and private infrastructure improvements necessary to support the
project;
      2.   Comply with, and have incorporated, all aspects and conditions of
approval with regard to the subdivision sketch plat previously submitted,
reviewed, and approved for the project;
      3.   Be submitted to the community development department and planning
staff at least ten (10) working days prior to the next regularly scheduled TAC
meeting. Such application shall be in compliance with the submittal cutoff
dates posted in the annual city planning department processing calendar as
found on the city website (glenpoolonline.com).
   B.   Review Of Plat And Documents:
      1.   Upon receipt of the preliminary subdivision plat and preliminary
infrastructure construction documents, the community development department and
planning staff shall:
         a.   Electronically transmit the preliminary subdivision plat and
preliminary infrastructure construction documents to members of the TAC and any
other appropriate city departments, private utility supplier officials, or
governmental agencies for review and comment.
         b.   Perform an on-site study of the area being platted and improved.
         c.   Review the preliminary subdivision plat for conformance with the
comprehensive master plan, zoning ordinance requirements, this title, any
applicable planned unit development (PUD) conditions, any previous city board
of adjustment actions, and the recommendations and conditions of approval of
the subdivision sketch plat. Upon these reviews, the community development and
planning staff shall prepare a preliminary staff report. This report shall
include specific recommendations on any modifications to, or waivers from, this
title as may be requested by the subdivider.
         d.   Send written notice of the preliminary subdivision plat
application to all abutting property owners, as supplied by the subdivider, at
least ten (10) days prior to the planning commission meeting where the
preliminary subdivision plat application is to be reviewed in a public hearing.
      2.   The preliminary infrastructure construction documents submitted at
the time of application for approval of the preliminary subdivision plat shall
be forwarded to the following internal city departments and/or public and
private utility suppliers and agencies as applicable:
         a.   The city community development, engineering, and water and
wastewater departments shall review the preliminary construction documents
submitted covering public infrastructure improvements pertaining to overland
drainage, storm sewers, stormwater management facilities, streets, sidewalks
and pedestrianways, in accordance with the engineering design criteria adopted
and enforced by the city.
         b.   The city community development, engineering, and water and
wastewater departments shall also review the preliminary water and sanitary
sewer improvement plans necessary to provide public services to the project
site in accordance with the engineering design criteria adopted and enforced by
the city.
      3.   The TAC shall review the preliminary subdivision plat and any
applicable portions of the preliminary public infrastructure construction
documents and shall identify any specific desired modifications and
recommendations.
      4.   The planning staff shall develop and submit a staff report
containing all recommendations and requirements resulting from city community
development, planning, engineering, and water and wastewater department staff
review, along with those resulting from the TAC review to the planning
commission to be presented at the next regular scheduled public meeting.
   C.   Hearing And Approval:
      1.   Notice Of Hearing: The planning commission shall hold a public
hearing regarding the approval of the preliminary subdivision plat. Notice of
such hearing shall be given to all abutting property owners and to the
subdivider by mailing a written notice to each at least ten (10) days prior to
the planning commission hearing.
      2.   Approval Or Disapproval Of Plat:
         a.   After the planning commission has reviewed the preliminary
subdivision plat document; the report and recommendations of the community
development, city planning and other city staff; the listed TAC comments; other
municipal department recommendations; any public testimony; and other exhibits
that may be presented by the subdivider at the hearing, the planning commission
shall approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the preliminary subdivision
plat at such hearing or within thirty (30) days (including the hearing date)
after the date the hearing was held and closed. If the preliminary subdivision
plat is disapproved, the reasons for disapproval shall be recorded in the
hearing proceedings and minutes.
         b.   Subsequent to the close of the hearing, the city planning staff
shall advise the subdivider in writing of all modifications and/or additions
required as conditions of any approval that may have been granted by the
planning commission or a listing of the reasons for disapproval. One copy of
the proposed preliminary subdivision plat, as was acted upon by the planning
commission, shall also be returned to the subdivider including the date of such
approval, conditional approval, or disapproval.
         c.   If preliminary subdivision plat approval granted by the planning
commission required a modification to any requirements of this title, the
reasons therefor shall be noted in the record of the planning commission
hearing proceedings.
         d.   If the preliminary subdivision plat is approved with conditions,
the planning commission may require the subdivider to submit a revised
preliminary plat reflecting and/or incorporating any or all such conditions of
approval prior to proceeding with the development of a final subdivision plat.
         e.   One copy of the proposed preliminary subdivision plat, as acted
upon by the planning commission, with the date of approval, conditional
approval, or disapproval, along with the reasons therefor, shall be retained in
the files of the city planning staff for future city and public reference.
   D.   Approval Period: The approval of a preliminary subdivision plat shall
be effective for a period of one year from the date of approval or conditional
approval by the planning commission unless otherwise specifically applied for
and approved by the planning commission. Any request for an extension of time
received before the end of the one year approval period will require both
planning commission and city council approval. Any preliminary subdivision plat
not receiving final subdivision plat approval within the one year approval
period or within any extensions of time that have been approved by the planning
commission and city council shall become null and void.
   E.   Compliance With Provisions: All final subdivision plats shall conform
to the existing regulations applicable at the time of approval of the
preliminary subdivision plat unless modifications to, or deviations from, those
regulations have been previously granted by the planning commission and city
council. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-5-4: FINAL CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS:
The subdivider shall submit a minimum of three (3) copies of the final
construction documents covering all proposed infrastructure improvements
(public or private) that have been conditionally approved by all city and
private utility supplier agencies to the city community development department
prior to submitting an application for approval of the final subdivision plat.
The construction documents shall be submitted in the form and content as
required in article A of this chapter. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-5-5: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application For Approval: Following approval of the preliminary
subdivision plat by the planning commission, the subdivider shall file with the
city community development and planning department staff an application for
approval of the final subdivision plat. The application for approval of the
final subdivision plat shall:
      1.   Be accompanied by: a fully completed application as found on the
city website (glenpoolonline.com) including all associated processing fees as
established by the city; a list of all abutting property owners of record as
listed in the office of the county clerk that has been compiled by a bonded
abstract and title company; and a minimum of three (3) copies of the final
infrastructure construction documents covering all required public and private
infrastructure improvements to support the subdivision site as approved by the
appropriate city community development departments.
      2.   Be accompanied by a minimum of five (5) paper copies of the final
subdivision plat as described in this title.
      3.   Be submitted to the city community development and planning
departments at least ten (10) working days prior to the next TAC meeting in
compliance with the submittal cutoff dates posted in the annual city planning
department processing calendar found on the city website (glenpoolonline.com).
      4.   Comply in all respects with the preliminary subdivision plat and all
associated conditions of approval as was approved and stipulated by the
planning commission.
   B.   Review And Recommendations:
      1.   The city planning staff shall transmit the final subdivision plat
and final infrastructure construction documents to members of the TAC, all
appropriate city departments, and any other public or private utility supplier
officials or agencies for review.
      2.   The city planning staff shall review the final subdivision plat for
compliance with the preliminary subdivision plat and all associated conditions
of approval as was approved and specified by the planning commission.
      3.   The TAC shall review the final subdivision plat and associated
public infrastructure construction documents and make any final recommendations
or requirements to the planning staff at the next regularly scheduled TAC
meeting.
      4.   As a result of city planning, engineering, and water and wastewater
staff review and conditional approval of the submitted final subdivision plat
and the conditional approval of final public infrastructure construction
documents supporting the development site, the city planning staff shall make
an approval recommendation to the planning commission listing any required
final modifications resulting from said city staff and TAC review only if:
         a.   There has been compliance with all conditions, restrictions, and
requirements of this title and all other applicable regulations or laws.
         b.   All conditions attached to the approval of the preliminary
subdivision plat have been addressed and/or complied with.
   C.   Planning Commission Review And Determination:
      1.   The city planning staff shall submit the final subdivision plat for
final approval by the planning commission.
      2.   The planning commission shall, at the next regularly scheduled
meeting or within thirty (30) days thereafter:
         a.   Review the final subdivision plat and the report of the community
development and planning department staff.
         b.   Approve the final subdivision plat if the conditions of approval
of the preliminary subdivision have been met; approve the final subdivision
subject to any final conditions recommended as may be specified by the city
planning staff; or disapprove the final subdivision plat and state, in detail
in the record of the meeting, all reasons for disapproval.
      3.   The requirement for approval and certification as to the completion
of the required public infrastructure improvements in accordance with the
approved final construction plans shall be received by the planning staff in
the form of release letters from the applicable city departments or agencies as
required in this title prior to approval of the final subdivision plat.
   D.   Endorsement Of Approval On Final Plat:
      1.   No final approval shall be endorsed by the city planning commission
or the city council on the face of the final subdivision plat until all
requirements of the final plat approval process have been met.
      2.   When the subdivider has chosen to install all public infrastructure
improvements prior to endorsement of the final subdivision plat by the city
planning commission and city council, such final plat approval shall not be
endorsed on the final subdivision plat until such time as all required public
infrastructure improvements have been satisfactorily completed, accepted by the
city for ownership and maintenance purposes, and all required maintenance bonds
have been submitted to and accepted by the city council.
      3.   When the subdivider has chosen to guarantee construction of all
public infrastructure improvements by issuing required performance bonds,
letters of credit, or other securities satisfactory to the city prior to the
actual construction of those improvements, the final subdivision plat may be
endorsed by the city planning commission and city council after such time as
said bonds, letters of credit, or other securities have been formally approved
and accepted by the city council.
      4.   The parties responsible for endorsing city approval on the face of
the final subdivision plat shall be as follows:
         a.   The city manager or the authorized designee of the city manager;
         b.   The city planning commission chairperson or vice chairperson so
authorized to sign for such chairperson; and
         c.   The mayor of the city upon approval of the city council.
      5.   The format of the endorsements placed on the face of the final
subdivision plat shall be as specified in section
12-9-2, figure 2 of this title.
   E.   Filing Final Plat: The approved and fully executed original final
subdivision plat shall, after being endorsed by all required officials as
described in this title, be filed in the office of the Tulsa County clerk by
the subdivider.
   F.   Distribution Of Final Plat: After the final subdivision plat has been
endorsed by all the required city officials as described in this title and
filed of record with the Tulsa County clerk’s office, the city planning staff
shall distribute certified copies, supplied by the subdivider, to the
appropriate city officials, agencies or departments. The remaining signed and
certified copies shall be returned to the subdivider. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-5-6: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD):
The subdivision platting of a Planned Unit Development (PUD) project shall
proceed in accordance with this Title and the PUD requirements set out in Title
11, Chapter 3, Subchapter 4, Planned Unit Development (PUD), and the procedures
set out in Title 11, Sections
11-9-9, Conceptual Development Plan (CDP) for a PUD,
11-9-10, Preliminary Development Plan (PDP) for a PUD, and,
11-9-11, Final Development Plan (FDP) for a PUD. Subdivision plats may be filed
concurrently with PDP and FDP applications but may not be approved until the
PDP and FDP have been approved by City Council. Applicants filing plats
concurrent with PDP and FDP applications automatically consent to the waiver of
all statutory subdivision plat review and approval deadlines by virtue of the
fact that zoning approval must precede plat approval. The approval of a PUD, as
required by Title 11 and this title, shall be noted and documented on the face
of the final subdivision plat and officially made a part thereof. Minor and
Major PUD amendments, as set out in Title 11, shall require corresponding
amendment to Preliminary and Final Plats to coincide with the PUD amendment.
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
ARTICLE A. DOCUMENT SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
12-5A-1: Platting Accuracy
12-5A-2: Sketch Plat
12-5A-3: Preliminary Plat
12-5A-4: Preliminary Public Infrastructure Construction Documents
12-5A-5: Final Public Infrastructure Construction Documents
12-5A-6: Final Plat
12-5A-1: PLATTING ACCURACY:
Plat documents shall be prepared with the following accuracy standards:
   A.   Sketch Plats: Subdivision sketch plats shall be prepared electronically
to the scale specified herein and made available in PDF format.
   B.   Preliminary Plats: Preliminary subdivision plats shall be prepared
electronically to the scale specified herein and made available in PDF format.
Graphic and dimensional accuracy shall be such that the location and boundary
dimensions of lots, blocks, perimeter property boundary lines, utility,
drainage, and access easements, building lines, and other facilities and
features shall be determined to the nearest one-hundredth foot (0.01').
   C.   Final Plats: Final subdivision plats shall be prepared electronically
with a minimum linear boundary closure of one to twenty thousand (1:20,000) or
in compliance with required accuracy of urban surveys as specified by the
Oklahoma state board of licensure for professional engineers and land surveyors
and shall be made available in PDF format. The following information shall be
submitted and placed on the final subdivision plat:
      1.   Traverse and coordinate data used to determine the subdivision plat
perimeter boundary along with notations regarding all corner monumentation
found or set.
      2.   The computation of all distances, angles, and courses that are shown
on the final subdivision plat or those measured in the field and used for
dimensional positioning instead of computed data.
      3.   The final subdivision plat shall reference all adjacent and internal
section subdivision corners with distance and bearing calls from the boundary
monumentation to such section division reference corners on the face of the
plat along with a basis of bearing used for the angular orientation of the
boundary of the tract being subdivided.
      4.   All existing monuments or other boundary evidence found on the
ground used to determine the boundaries of the final subdivision plat shall be
clearly shown and described. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-5A-2: SKETCH PLAT:
   A.   The subdivider is encouraged and, at the option of the city, may be
required to submit a subdivision sketch plat (see section
12-9-3, figure 3 of this title) and to receive comments and recommendations
from the technical advisory committee (TAC), city planning staff, and in some
instances the planning commission that will facilitate processing of the
resulting preliminary subdivision plat.
   B.   The subdivision sketch plat shall be drawn electronically (CADD) and be
made available in PDF format so as to be compatible with city equipment and
shall be drawn to a minimum scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100'), except where the size or amount of detail requires another scale. It is
suggested that the subdivision sketch plat be superimposed over an aerial
topographic map and/or aerial photograph for greater understanding of the
development concepts being proposed as it relates to existing site conditions.
   C.   The subdivision sketch plat shall illustrate the following information:
      1.   The proposed layout of public or private streets, lots, blocks, and
all public or private areas.
      2.   Outer boundary lines of the proposed subdivision.
      3.   Location and width of streets adjacent to and providing access to
the subject property.
      4.   Existing utilities located on or adjacent to the property showing
type, location, and size.
      5.   Existing on site and adjacent drainage patterns, watercourses, and
the approximate boundary and alignment of all regulatory floodplains stating
the source of such information.
   6.   A topographic map of the area proposed to be subdivided illustrating
contour lines having a maximum two foot (2') contour interval based on the
United States coastal and geodetic (USGS) survey datum. The source of reference
benchmark data shall be given and described. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-5A-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   A preliminary subdivision plat (see section
12-9-4, figure 4 of this title) submitted for city approval shall be prepared
electronically by a registered professional land surveyor licensed in the state
of Oklahoma and be made available in PDF format. The application shall include
the names and addresses of all abutting property owners as researched and
prepared by a bonded abstract or title company.
   B.   The preliminary subdivision plat shall be drawn to a scale of one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'); provided, that if the property to be
subdivided is less than two (2) acres in size, the scale may be one inch equals
fifty feet (1" = 50') or some other acceptable scale if more detail is needed.
   C.   The preliminary subdivision plat shall illustrate, contain, or be
accompanied by the following information:
      1.   The name(s) and address(es) of the owner or owners of the land to be
subdivided;
      2.   The name, business address, Oklahoma state professional
registration, and certificate of authorization number of the registered
professional land surveyor preparing the proposed preliminary subdivision plat;
      3.   The date of preparation of the preliminary subdivision plat; a
graphic true north arrow; and the horizontal drawing scale. The drawing scale
shall be both written and shown graphically;
      4.   A small scale (1 inch equals 2,000 feet minimum) key or location map
showing the location and boundary of all existing subdivisions within the same
one mile section as the subject subdivision along with the applicable section
number, township, and range;
      5.   An accurate written boundary legal description conforming to the
proposed subdivision plat and the description found on the warranty deed
covering the subject tract;
      6.   The directional orientation (bearings) and horizontal dimensions of
all perimeter boundary lines of the proposed subdivision tract, accurate to the
nearest one second and the nearest one-hundredth foot (0.01');
      7.   The names of all adjacent subdivisions along with the names,
locations, and widths of all existing and proposed street rights of way;
utility, drainage, and access easements; drainageways or reserves; and any
other public ways immediately adjacent to the property being subdivided;
      8.   The location and widths of all existing easements pertaining to oil,
natural gas, and petroleum products pipelines on, or immediately adjacent to,
the subdivided property along with the location and widths of all easements
pertaining to existing public or private infrastructure utilities on, or
immediately adjacent to, the subdivided property;
      9.   The location of all oil and natural gas wells, either existing,
active, inactive, plugged, unplugged, or abandoned, as shown in the records of
the Oklahoma state corporation commission and/or by any other oil and gas well
drilling, logging, and servicing recordkeeping sources as may be required by
the city. Any planned future oil or natural gas well sites shall also be
identified and located within or on areas immediately adjacent to the
subdivided property as provided in this title;
      10.   The location and description of all existing structures, bodies of
water, watercourses, and other natural or manmade features including, but not
limited to, underground mines that are active or abandoned, caves, or similar
structures located either on or adjacent to the property being subdivided;
      11.   All areas within a FEMA or city regulated floodplain having a one
percent (1%) chance of occurrence in any one year (100-year frequency) shall be
clearly delineated and dimensioned with the source of such information given
and described. All such areas shall be contained within public or private
drainage easements or reserve areas for public or private maintenance purposes
as required by the city engineering design criteria;
      12.   The exact location and width of all proposed street rights of way
appropriately named per the established city street naming convention along
with the location and dimension of all proposed and existing utility, drainage,
and access easements within the subdivided property;
      13.   The exact location of all proposed overland drainageways, reserves,
and associated easements, private or public pedestrianways, bike/walking paths,
recreational parks and playgrounds, other miscellaneous public ways, or other
public or private easements or reservations;
      14.   All proposed lots consecutively numbered along with all lot line
dimensions, angular bearings, and building setback lines properly dimensioned
and clearly labeled;
      15.   All blocks numbered consecutively and clearly labeled;
      16.   A field survey determined or photogrammetric topographic map of the
area proposed to be subdivided with contour lines having two foot (2') contour
intervals based on the most currently accepted United States coastal geodetic
(USGS) survey elevation datum; and
      17.   Any other information as may be deemed by the planning staff as
being reasonably necessary for the full and proper consideration of the
proposed preliminary subdivision plat and related site improvements required to
support the development of the property. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-5A-4: PRELIMINARY PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS:
Preliminary public infrastructure construction documents for required
subdivision related improvements shall be prepared by a registered professional
engineer licensed in the state of Oklahoma and shall be designed, detailed, and
submitted to the city engineer in accordance with the engineering design
criteria, requirements, and specifications of the city community development
and engineering departments or other city, county, or state agency having
jurisdiction over the proposed improvements and shall illustrate and include
the following minimum information:
   A.   The location, alignments, and proposed width of each street or alley
right of way and any sidewalk or pedestrianway or reserve.
   B.   The location, alignment, and size of all proposed public and private
sanitary sewer collection and water distribution system extensions necessary to
adequately serve the project.
   C.   A master drainage plan indicating the location of proposed storm sewer
lines, open natural or improved drainageways, and all other forms of stormwater
management and conveyance facilities.
   D.   The proposed location, size, and configuration of all private or public
reserve areas and/or easements necessary to adequately accommodate required
stormwater detention facilities and any similar improvements necessary to
support the development of the property. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-5A-5: FINAL PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS:
Final public infrastructure construction documents for all such required
improvements shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer licensed
in the state of Oklahoma and shall be designed, detailed, and submitted in
accordance with the requirements and specifications of the engineering design
criteria and related technical specifications of the city community development
and engineering departments or other city, county, or state agency having
jurisdiction over the proposed improvements and shall illustrate and include
the following minimum information:
   A.   Construction plan and profile sheets detailing horizontal alignment and
existing and proposed elevations and grades along the centerline and curb lines
of each proposed street.
   B.   Cross sections of each proposed street, pedestrianway, or sidewalk as
may be necessary to adequately design and construct proposed improvements.
Typical paving and right of way cross sections shall be included illustrating
proposed paving width, subgrade, base, and surfacing type and thickness,
including curbing materials and specifications.
   C.   An enlarged scale (1 inch equals 20 feet) plan of each street
intersection showing dimensional information, curb radius, stormwater flow
patterns, proposed public or private utility improvements, and sidewalks
including ADA curb opening and ramp locations and configuration.
   D.   Construction plans and profiles illustrating the location, alignment,
pipe size, grade, and all applicable construction details necessary for the
installation of proposed sanitary sewer extensions and internal collection
system.
   E.   Construction plans and profiles illustrating location, alignment, pipe
size, valves, fire hydrants, and all applicable construction details necessary
for the installation of proposed water main extensions and internal
distribution system.
   F.   A master drainage plan illustrating all existing and proposed surface
grades, storm sewer piping, manholes, junctions, inlets, stormwater management
(detention) facilities, existing and proposed watercourses, culverts, and other
drainage related structures within the tract, or adjacent thereto, with pipe
sizes, grades, and overland surface drainage patterns. The drainage plan shall
also illustrate the size and configuration of dedicated public or private
easements or reservations necessary to accommodate all stormwater management
facilities and drainageways and whether private or public maintenance is
proposed.
   G.   A master erosion control plan designed and detailed per the Glenpool
engineering design criteria and any other requirements as may be required by
the city engineer, state of Oklahoma statutes, or federal regulatory agency
guidelines. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-5A-6: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   The final subdivision plat shall be drawn at the same scale as the
preliminary subdivision plat, and shall include all of the information required
as a condition of approval of the preliminary subdivision plat, and shall be
prepared by a registered professional land surveyor licensed in the state of
Oklahoma.
   B.   The final subdivision plat shall be developed and drawn in accordance
with the requirements of Oklahoma state statutes and this title (see section
12-9-5, figure 5 of this title). The Tulsa County clerk may accept variances to
these requirements due to county reproduction capabilities and other
limitations.
   C.   The following information shall be required on the final subdivision
plat at a minimum:
      1.   Name of the subdivision. Such name shall be unique to any other
previously recorded subdivision plat as listed in the Tulsa County clerk’s
office.
      2.   The legal name(s) and mailing address(es) of the owner or owners of
the property to be subdivided; the legal name and mailing address of the
subdivider, if other than the owner; and the legal name, mailing address, state
registration and certificate of authorization numbers of the registered
professional land surveyor who has prepared the final subdivision plat.
      3.   The date of preparation of the final subdivision plat; a graphic
north arrow; and the applicable drawing scale in both written and graphic
presentation format.
      4.   A small scale (1 inch equals 2,000 feet) key or location/vicinity
map showing the location and names of all existing subdivisions within the same
one mile section.
      5.   A written metes and bounds type legal description of the subdivided
property, accurate to an error of closure of no less than one to twenty
thousand (1:20,000) as required for urban boundary surveys by Oklahoma state
statute.
      6.   The total area within the boundary of the subdivided property,
expressed in acres and square feet to the nearest one square foot along with
the total number of lots contained in the subdivision.
      7.   The names of all adjacent subdivisions along with the names,
locations, and widths of all existing and proposed streets, easements,
drainageways, and other public ways common with, or adjacent to, the property.
      8.   The boundary of the subdivided area, block boundaries, street and
other rights of way illustrating all distances, angles and/or bearings, and
where these lines follow a curve, the central angle, radius, points of
curvature, cord length, and length of the curve shall be clearly shown.
      9.   The accurate dimensions of all property to be offered for dedication
for public use and all property for the common use of the existing and future
property owners within the subdivision. The purpose of such use shall be so
stated and illustrated on the face of the final subdivision plat.
      10.   The perimeter dimensions, angles, and bearings of all interior
block boundaries along with that of all lot boundary lines.
      11.   All proposed and existing utility, drainage, or access easements
shall be denoted by fine dashed lines, clearly identified and dimensioned. Any
such existing easements shall also specify the recording information from the
Tulsa County clerk’s office. All existing or proposed easements shall
illustrate the width of the easements with sufficient dimensional ties to
accurately locate them with respect to the subdivision perimeter, internal
block, and lot boundary lines.
      12.   The outer boundary lines of any FEMA or city regulated fully
urbanized 100-year event (1 percent per year) floodplain shall be delineated on
the face of the plat. The following certification shall also be placed on the
face of the plat: “The outer limits of the fully urbanized 100-year event (1
percent per year) floodplain are fully contained within the drainage easements
and/or reserve areas as shown herein.”
      13.   Any existing or proposed easements or rights of way located outside
the boundaries of the subdivision plat that are required for final subdivision
plat approval.
      14.   A deed of dedication pertaining to the dedication of public rights
of way and the grant of public easements as depicted on the final subdivision
plat along with any deed or use restrictions established for, and applicable
to, property within the subdivision.
      15.   The location of all oil and natural gas wells, either existing,
active, inactive, plugged, unplugged, or abandoned, as shown in the records of
the Oklahoma state corporation commission and/or by any other oil and gas well
drilling, well logging, and recordkeeping sources as may be required by the
city. Any planned future oil or natural gas well sites shall also be identified
and located within or on areas immediately adjacent to the subdivided property
as provided in this title.
      16.   The location of any mines (active or abandoned), caves or other
similar manmade or natural geological features on or adjacent to the subdivided
property.
      17.   All blocks and lots consecutively numbered.
      18.   The basis of angular bearing orientation for all lines within the
subdivision plat clearly specified and noted on the face of the subdivision
plat, accurate to one second.
      19.   The size, location, description, and identification of all survey
boundary, block, and lot corner monuments to be set. The size, location, and
description of all monuments found, accepted, retagged, recapped, or replaced
in making the survey represented by the final subdivision plat shall be clearly
shown to assure the perpetuation or reestablishment of any point or line on the
subdivision boundary or internal points established by the subdivision plat as
may be required in the future.
      20.   Local (project) grid coordinates for all block corners, points of
intersection, points of curve, points of tangent, points of reverse curve,
points of compound curve, center of the cul-de-sac, and center of any eyebrow
on the centerlines of all street rights of way within the subdivision plat
provided in tabular format on the face of the final subdivision plat.
      21.   Street addressing on all created lots per the established
addressing convention in effect for the city. On all corner lots at street
intersections where addressing for any future building structure that may be
feasibly addressed from either street frontage, both street addressing options
shall be shown. All such addressing shall be determined by the city planning
staff and provided to the subdivider for inclusion on the face of the final
subdivision plat.
      22.   Any other information as may be deemed by the city planning or
engineering staff and/or the planning commission as being necessary for the
full and proper consideration of the proposed final subdivision plat.
      23.   The current city approval and signature certificate as supplied by
the city planning staff placed on the face of the final subdivision plat.
      24.   The following notice placed on the face of the final subdivision
plat: “The City of Glenpool, Oklahoma, has approved the subdivision platting of
the subject real property described herein. In so doing, the City makes no
representation as to the geological or geometric suitability, nor any warranty
for fitness of purpose pertaining to the resulting subdivided properties. The
City is not a party to the private restrictive covenants contained herein,
unless said covenants are included part of an approved ‘Planned Unit
Development’ as may be stated and described herein.”
   D.   The following written certifications will be required to be submitted
to the city planning staff prior to any final subdivision plat approval granted
by the planning commission and city council:
      1.   Certification by the registered professional land surveyor as to the
degree of accuracy of the boundary survey and of the geometric elements within
the final subdivision plat and that all block and lot corner and centerline of
street right of way monuments as illustrated are also within the minimum
positional accuracy of one to twenty thousand (1:20,000) as specified for an
urban survey per Oklahoma state statutes.
      2.   Certification by a registered professional engineer that the design
and installation of all required public infrastructure improvements was or will
be in conformance with the adopted city engineering design criteria and any
applicable standards, requirements, and provisions of any city, county, or
state departments or agencies having jurisdiction.
      3.   Certification by the city engineer that the final subdivision plat
conforms to all locally adopted standards, specifications, this title, and the
adopted city engineering design criteria.
      4.   Certification by the Oklahoma department of environmental quality
(ODEQ) that all required subdivision infrastructure improvements concerning
public water supply and distribution and sanitary sewer collection facilities
conform to current applicable health regulations and construction standards as
evidenced by fully approved construction documents and the issuance of a permit
to construct from ODEQ.
      5.   Certification by the city engineer or other appropriate authority
that the public infrastructure improvements required to support the subdivision
conform to all applicable city regulations and standard specifications
concerning water supply and distribution, sanitary sewer collection, stormwater
management, paving, grading, and erosion control.
   E.   The following supplemental information shall be included with the
submittal of the final subdivision plat to the city planning staff for approval
processing:
      1.   Current certification by a bonded abstractor, attorney, registered
professional land surveyor, or title insurance company of the names of the last
grantees of record owning the entire interest in the property being subdivided,
plus all holders of mortgages and liens against the property that have been
filed of record.
      2.   The written consent of all owners of the subject property to the
subdivision platting of the subject property.
      3.   Certificates of notice that have been issued to all holders of
mortgages and liens regarding the intent to subdivide and plat the subject
property.
      4.   Current certification from the Oklahoma state corporation commission
setting forth the status of all oil and natural gas drilling and related
activity on the subject property and as otherwise required in this title. (Ord.
747, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 6
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-6-1: General Requirements
12-6-2: Streets
12-6-3: Sidewalks
12-6-4: Alleys
12-6-5: Blocks
12-6-6: Lots
12-6-7: Utility And Drainage Easements
12-6-8: Floodplain Areas
12-6-9: Stormwater Management And Detention Facilities
12-6-10: Park And Recreation Development Fee Or Dedication Of Land In Lieu Of
Fee
12-6-11: Emergency Public Warning Facilities
12-6-12: Oil And Natural Gas Extraction
12-6-13: Sewage Disposal And Public Water Supply
12-6-14: Hillside Developments
12-6-15: Planned Unit Developments (PUD)
12-6-16: Survey Monuments
12-6-17: Modification To Limits Of Access Or No Access
12-6-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The design of each subdivision shall be in accordance with applicable city
zoning regulations, the policies, goals, and objectives of the city
comprehensive master plan, this title, and the city engineering design
criteria. Each subdivision shall relate harmoniously to the existing and any
planned development surrounding the subject property and to the community as a
whole. The development of each subdivision shall proceed in an orderly, safe,
efficient, and attractive manner once approved improvement construction is
initiated. The following planning and design requirements shall be addressed in
each subdivision project:
   A.   Neighborhood Concept: The neighborhood concept shall be recognized in
the design and development of each subdivision as described in the city
comprehensive master plan. This concept is shown graphically in section
12-9-6, figure 6 of this title.
   B.   Site Characteristics: Each subdivision plat shall, to the extent
practical, be designed to retain the natural topography and vegetation of the
site, regarding the building locations, and especially in any public or private
recreational areas or reserves created to serve the project.
   C.   Parks And Open Spaces: Each subdivision shall contribute to the
provision of parks and open spaces (see section
12-9-7, figure 7 of this title) as required in this title and in accordance
with the city comprehensive master plan. Areas purchased or otherwise set aside
for public or private parks and open spaces shall include tracts of land on
which unique natural features can be preserved, as well as those lands of
suitable size and shape for development as either passive or active
recreational areas. Environmentally sensitive areas such as steep slopes,
timbered areas, streams, and floodplains may, only with the approval of the
city, be designated and dedicated by the subdivider to the public as publicly
owned park property and/or open space areas to be utilized as amenities to not
only the subject development, but the community as a whole and to be maintained
by the city.
   D.   Circulation: The street, sidewalk, and pedestrianway systems within a
proposed subdivision shall be appropriately designed related to the intended
land use. The unit or lot density of the proposed development will determine
the required size of street right of way and paving widths in keeping with the
areas being served as well as in accordance with this title, the city
engineering design criteria, the city comprehensive master plan, and the major
street and highway plan as adopted by the city. Residential street patterns
shall be established such that their use by through traffic will be discouraged
(see section
12-9-11, figure 11 of this title). Roadways designated as arterial streets
should serve as the boundaries between subdivisions, not as trafficways through
interior neighborhoods. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-2: STREETS:
   A.   General Requirements: The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade,
and location of all public streets shall conform to this title, the city
engineering design criteria, the city comprehensive master plan, and the major
street and highway plan as adopted by the city. Further, the relationship of
existing and planned streets, topographic conditions, public convenience and
safety, and the proposed uses of the land to be served shall be considered in
determining the arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of
all proposed streets. Where streets are not shown on the city comprehensive
master plan or the major street and highway plan, the arrangement of such
streets in a proposed subdivision shall at a minimum:
      1.   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
streets in surrounding areas; or
      2.   Conform to a plan for the neighborhood as reviewed by the city
planning staff and planning commission and as approved by the city council to
address a particular situation in which topographical or other conditions make
continuance or conformance to existing street patterns impractical and/or
undesirable.
   B.   Access:
      1.   Each lot in a proposed subdivision shall be provided with access to
a public street, highway, or approved private street or accessway to assure the
convenience of the lot owner, and including, but not limited to, access for the
following public purposes: adequate and convenient open spaces for traffic, the
installation of public and/or private utilities, solid waste collection, access
to accommodate firefighting apparatus, police, and other emergency vehicles,
for parking lots, for parks, and for the avoidance of traffic congestion.
      2.   Reserve strips designed for controlling or eliminating access to
public or private streets shall be prohibited except where the location of any
such reserve strip is placed as approved by the city under conditions and
provisions that have been reviewed by the city planning staff and planning
commission and formally approved by the city council.
      3.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or planned
arterial street:
         a.   Nonaccess provisions (limits of no access) controlling ingress
and egress to such arterial streets may be required by the city planning staff
and/or planning commission in accordance with adopted design standards to
assure traffic safety and to relieve congestion at intersections.
         b.   The city planning staff and/or planning commission may require
reverse frontage lots be provided with limits of no access boundaries or
nonaccess reservations along the rear property line common with such arterial
street or such other treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of
the residential properties by affording separation of arterial street traffic
from ingress and egress to individual lots.
   C.   Border Streets: Where a subdivision borders or contains a railroad
right of way, drainageway, public or private park, open space area, or limited
access highway, the city planning staff and/or planning commission may require
a frontage type street (see section
12-9-8, figure 8 of this title) approximately parallel to these features on
each side of such right of way or areas at a suitable separation distance yet
accommodating the appropriate use of the intervening land, such as for park or
open space uses in residential districts, or for commercial or industrial
purposes in the appropriate zoning districts. Such separation distances shall
also be determined with due regard for the requirements of existing approach
grade and future grade separations.
   D.   Marginal Or Limited Access Streets: Where a residential development
abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial street and the subdivider
proposes to design lots that front that arterial street, the city planning
staff and/or planning commission may require marginal or specified limits of
access or limits of no access to and from these streets to ensure adequate
protection for abutting properties and to provide adequate separation of
arterial and residential street traffic during ingress and egress to those
individual residential lots.
   E.   Dedication Of Right Of Way: Whenever an existing major or arterial
street is located adjacent to the outer boundary of a subdivision, one-half (½)
of the full right of way width as shown on the city major street and highway
plan shall be dedicated to the public at the time of subdivision platting. One-
half (½) street right of way dedications on collector or minor streets are not
permitted.
   F.   Alignment:
      1.   The maximum design speed for public or private residential streets
and the minimum allowable distance between the centerlines of intersecting
streets shall be in accordance with the city engineering design criteria.
      2.   The city planning staff and/or planning commission may require that
streets be connected by a curve or diagonal in such a manner that hazardous
turning movements will be minimized or eliminated.
   G.   Right Of Way Widths: Dedicated street right of way widths of all
proposed public streets shall be in accordance with the city major street and
highway plan (see section
12-9-9, figure 9 of this title), and where not designated therein, the minimum
width shall not be less than the following:
Type Of Street Right Of Way
Type Of Street                          Right Of Way
Freeway/beltway/parkway                 As per ODOT and city engineering design
                                        criteria
Primary arterial                        120 feet1
Secondary arterial and secondary        100 feet2
arterial alternate
Commercial collector/industrial
collector, commercial business district 80 feet
street
Residential collector, commercial/      60 feet
industrial street
Residential or minor street             50 feet
Alleyways:
   Commercial and industrial         30 feet
   Residential                       20 feet
 
   Notes:
   1.   130 foot minimum right of way is required for right turn lanes in both
directions at the intersections of primary arterials to extend a distance of
388 feet paralleling the right side of each street.
   2.   110 foot minimum right of way is required for a right turn lane at the
intersections of all secondary arterials to extend a distance 388 feet
paralleling the right side of each street.
      1.   If greenways or drainageways influenced by topographical features,
streams, ponds, ravines, wooded areas, regulatory floodplains, or other natural
features are to be provided within the proposed subdivision plat, the width and
location of the rights of way, easements, or reservations for these facilities
shall be ultimately determined by the city planning or engineering staff and
approved by the planning commission as may be deemed necessary to preserve and
accommodate such features.
      2.   The pavement design section, width, depth, and composition; standard
specifications for street surfacing, curb and guttering; general surface
drainage patterns, underground storm sewer piping, stormwater management
facilities (detention) design or open channel drainage necessary to accommodate
the proposed development shall be in accordance with the city engineering
design criteria.
   H.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed five hundred feet (500') in
length, measured from the centerline of the connecting street to the center of
the dead end turnaround, and shall have right of way for the turnaround of not
less than fifty feet (50') in radius in residential areas and not less than
sixty feet (60') in radius in commercial or industrial areas. When topography
or other physically limiting factors and the needs of specific situations
require modification to cul-de-sac design standards necessary to incorporate a
more appropriate overall design, a variance from this title by the planning
commission, upon a recommendation from the technical advisory committee (TAC)
and the city planning and engineering staff, may be allowed.
   I.   Intersections: Public street intersections shall be designed as follows
(see section
12-9-10, figure 10 of this title):
      1.   Streets shall be designed to intersect at right angles as permitted
by topography and other limiting factors.
      2.   Four-way intersections shall be prohibited.
      3.   Street intersections with centerline separations of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be prohibited.
      4.   Points of street right of way access to arterial streets shall be
limited in number and location.
      5.   Intersections between arterial and minor streets shall be separated
a minimum of six hundred feet (600') from centerline to centerline.
      6.   Any conflict with these and other applicable design principles and
standards should be avoided. Any desired variance to this title shall be
formally requested by the subdivider for city planning and engineering staff
and planning commission consideration.
   J.   Grades: Public street grades shall be designed as follows:
      1.   The maximum centerline grade for nonarterial streets shall be in
accordance with the city engineering design criteria.
      2.   All changes in grade shall be connected by vertical curves of
sufficient lengths designed for safe stopping and sightline distances and shall
otherwise be in accordance with the city engineering design criteria.
      3.   The maximum centerline grade of a residential street when
intersecting an arterial street shall be in accordance with the city
engineering design criteria.
      4.   The maximum centerline grade of residential streets at intersections
with other residential streets shall be in accordance with the city engineering
design criteria.
      5.   Street grades shall be established in such a manner as to avoid
excessive grading or removal of existing tree growth whenever possible.
   K.   Curvature: The radius of curvature on the centerline of all streets
shall be designed to reflect the associated design speed and be in accordance
with the city engineering design criteria.
   L.   Street Names And Address Numbers:
      1.   No street names shall be used that are not in compliance with the
street naming convention previously established by the city planning department
and shall be in accordance with the adopted policy of the city. Where a street
or avenue is an extension of an existing street or avenue, new names or address
numbers may only be used with the approval of the city planning staff and/or
planning commission and city council.
      2.   Street address numbering for lots shall be assigned by the city
planning staff in accordance with subsection
12-5A-6C21 of this title. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-3: SIDEWALKS:
The relationship between existing and planned streets, topography, public
convenience, public safety, and the proposed use of the land being subdivided
shall be considered in determining the arrangement, character, extent, width,
grade, and location of all sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be constructed in
accordance with the city engineering design criteria and as follows:
   A.   Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the city engineering
design criteria within dedicated public street rights of way and shall be
required throughout the subdivision in accordance with this title.
   B.   Sidewalk layout and design for primary and secondary arterial streets,
the central business district, and other commercial and industrial areas shall
be furnished by the subdivider’s engineer and approved by the city engineer.
   C.   Sidewalks shall be required on either side of all primary and secondary
arterial streets, commercial and industrial collector streets, and on both
sides of minor and collector streets serving a residential subdivision, except
where large lot residential estates (RE) zoning has been granted.
   D.   Sidewalks shall be provided for safe and convenient access for persons
with physical disabilities, including those persons confined to a wheelchair.
Curb ramps shall be constructed at all street intersections in accordance with
standard details provided in the city engineering design standards. All
sidewalks shall conform to and be in compliance with the Americans with
disabilities act (ADA) requirements and standards.
   E.   In order to further facilitate pedestrian access to schools, parks, or
playgrounds, the planning commission may require perpetual unobstructed mutual
access easements of not more than ten feet (10') in width to provide adequate
pedestrian circulation serving all or certain areas within a subdivision. Any
such mutual access easement shall be shown and clearly dimensioned on the final
subdivision plat. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-4: ALLEYS:
Alleys shall be designed and provided as follows:
   A.   Alleys shall be provided for subdivisions and projects located in
commercial and industrial zoning districts. However, the planning commission
may waive this requirement where other definite and assured provisions are made
for service access, such as off street loading and unloading and parking that
is consistent with, and adequate for, the intended uses within the development.
   B.   The right of way width for alleys serving commercial and industrial
areas shall not be less than thirty feet (30').
   C.   Alleys are not required for residential areas, but when provided, the
right of way width for residential alleys shall not be less than twenty feet
(20'). (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-5: BLOCKS:
The length, width, and shape of blocks: shall be suited for the planned use of
the land; shall be consistent with applicable zoning requirements; shall be
compatible with the need for convenient access, control, and safety of street
vehicular traffic; and shall consider the limitations of the existing and
proposed topography. Block length and width shall be generally designed as
follows:
   A.   Length: Block lengths in residential areas shall not be greater than
eight hundred feet (800'). In the event that proposed block lengths are greater
than eight hundred feet (800'), the city planning staff and/or planning
commission may require public right of way mutual access easement dedication
for intermediate pedestrianways through the block. Any such right of way or
mutual access easement shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in width and
provide a paved sidewalk constructed in accordance with the city engineering
design criteria and this title. Blocks intended for commercial or industrial
uses should not exceed six hundred feet (600') unless specific approval is
granted by the city planning staff and the planning commission.
   B.   Width: Blocks for residential areas shall have sufficient width to
provide for two (2) tiers of back to back lots of appropriate depth except for
blocks designed along the boundaries of the subdivision or as required to
separate residential development from other types of land uses or from
thoroughfare or arterial street traffic. Blocks intended for commercial or
industrial uses should be of a width suitable for the intended use with
allowances made for required off street parking and loading facilities. (Ord.
747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-6: LOTS:
Lots shall be generally designed as follows:
   A.   Configuration: The size, shape, and orientation of lots shall be
appropriate for the applicable zoning classification, the location and
orientation of the subdivision, and the proposed type of development uses
intended for the tract.
   B.   Access: Every lot shall have frontage on, and abut to, dedicated public
street right of way, or shall bound on a private street that has been approved
as a portion of a planned unit development, or have other forms of access as
may be approved by the city planning staff and the planning commission.
   C.   Zoning Requirements: Lot dimensions, side yard setbacks, front building
setback lines, and lot areas shall conform to the minimum requirements of the
city zoning ordinance for the particular district covering the subject property
unless varied by the city board of adjustment or superseded and specified to be
otherwise a part of a planned unit development previously approved for
development by the city.
   D.   Corner Lots: Lots at the intersections of streets shall exceed the
minimum zoning ordinance lot area requirements by a minimum of twenty percent
(20%) to provide adequate building areas and to accommodate minimum building
setbacks from both intersecting streets as specified in the city zoning
ordinance.
   E.   Lot Depth: Excessive lot depth in relation to lot width is discouraged.
A proportion of between one to one (1:1) or three to one (3:1) (lot depth
versus lot width) will normally be considered appropriate.
   F.   Lot Lines: Side lot lines should be approximately at right angles to
straight street right of way lines or approximately radial to curved street
right of way lines.
   G.   Parking And Loading: Commercial and industrial lots should be of an
appropriate size and shape to provide adequate off street parking and loading
facilities as specified in the city zoning ordinance.
   H.   Double Frontage And Reverse Frontage: Double frontage and reverse
frontage lots should be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of
residential development from thoroughfare or arterial street traffic or to
overcome disadvantages of terrain and other existing limitation of conventional
lot orientation.
   I.   Large Lot Subdivisions: When residential, commercial, or industrial
property is to be subdivided into one acre lots or greater, consideration
should be given to the opening of future streets and further subdivision that
may occur in the future. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-7: UTILITY AND DRAINAGE EASEMENTS:
All proposed subdivisions shall provide for the creation and dedication of
public or private utility easements and street rights of way as follows:
   A.   General Requirements: Utility easements shall be provided and dedicated
in accordance with the city engineering design criteria and this title.
Regarding the dedication of required easements, the subdivider shall stipulate
that no building, structure, or other aboveground or belowground obstruction
shall be placed, erected, installed, or permitted on such easement in a manner
that will, in the judgment of the city, interfere with the installation,
operation, maintenance, repairing, removing, or replacing of utilities within
these areas.
   B.   Width: Utility easements, where necessary, shall be a minimum width of
twenty two feet (22') or eleven feet (11') on each side of all rear lot lines
where lots are proposed in a back to back configuration and seventeen and one-
half feet (171/2') in width for easements located along, and parallel to, the
subdivision boundary or of a width and location as may be specified by the
technical advisory committee. When deemed necessary, easements shall be
provided along other lot or block boundary lines or in other locations as may
be required for poles, wires, conduits, sanitary sewers, natural gas, water,
power, communications, and other utility lines and related facilities.
   C.   Drainage Easements: Suitable restricted drainage easements, as required
and specified by the city engineering design criteria, may be required within
certain proposed subdivisions. In the event that overland drainage easements
are required for the conveyance of stormwater, such easements shall not be
combined with or be located within utility easements.
   D.   Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) Review: The locations, width, and
alignment of all utility and drainage easements shall be subject to review and
recommendation by the TAC, city planning and engineering staff, and the
planning commission prior to final subdivision plat approval and acceptance by
the city council.
   E.   Standard Location Of Underground Utilities: The standard location for
the installation of underground utilities within dedicated utility easements
shall be in accordance with the current city engineering design criteria (see
section
12-9-12, figure 12 of this title). (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-8: FLOODPLAIN AREAS:
Lands that are identified on the adopted FEMA flood insurance rate maps of
areas within the city as being subject to flooding hazards and periodic
inundation shall not be subdivided into lots, tracts, or parcels for any use
which would be incompatible with such flooding hazards except as follows: All
improvements located within or adjacent to identified and delineated floodplain
areas shall meet the standards and requirements of the city flood damage
prevention ordinance and shall not increase the base flood elevation, either
upstream or downstream, beyond that amount allowable as specified therein.
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-9: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND DETENTION FACILITIES:
Stormwater management and detention facilities shall be required in accordance
with this title and the city engineering design criteria including general
policies as follows:
   A.   The stormwater drainage system within the proposed subdivision shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the standards and requirements of
the city engineering design criteria and shall receive and convey the runoff
from a 100-year (1 percent) frequency rainstorm under conditions of full
upstream urbanization including all anticipated improvements within the subject
subdivision. “Full urbanization” is defined as the total anticipated
subdivision development within the upstream and downstream watershed as may be
described in the City’s adopted Comprehensive Plan or other City planning
studies. The entire upstream and on site drainage flow shall be contained
within the stormwater management system and shall be conveyed through the
proposed subdivision with no adverse effects to any proposed improvements
associated with the subject development or to areas downstream of the proposed
development and shall be in compliance with said city engineering design
criteria.
   B.   Stormwater detention facilities shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the city engineering design criteria such that stormwater
runoff rates from the fully developed site shall not exceed the predeveloped
rate and shall have no adverse impact on downstream properties. Excess runoff
volumes and rates along with excessive conveyance velocities generated by the
proposed subdivision shall be abated and/or mitigated in accordance with the
requirements set forth in the city engineering design criteria. (Ord. 747, 11-
14-2017)
12-6-10: PARK AND RECREATION DEVELOPMENT FEE OR DEDICATION OF LAND IN LIEU OF
FEE:
   A.   Development Fee: As land is developed for residential use, the need for
additional public park land and the construction of improved recreational
facilities to serve the community is created. In order to provide adequate
funding to satisfy this need, a park and recreation development fee shall be
imposed on each residential building permit issued by the city. However, solely
at the discretion of the city, an option to require dedication of park land by
the subdivider in lieu of payment of park and recreation fees may be allowed as
specified in subsection B of this section. The park and recreation development
fee shall be assessed as a part of individual building permits issued within a
subdivision and shall be determined and paid as follows:
      1.   Fee Established:
         a.   Before a residential building permit is issued to construct any
residential dwelling unit on any lot or parcel within the corporate limits of
the city, a park and recreation fee shall be levied as part of any such
building permit application.
         b.   Permit applications for building expansion, remodeling, and/or
alteration of an existing dwelling unit where additional bedrooms are designed
shall be charged a fee.
      2.   Determination Of Fee:
         a.   The number of bedrooms in each proposed dwelling unit shall be
determined from the building plans filed with the building permit application
and shall include as bedrooms, all rooms, however labeled on the plans (other
than living rooms, dining rooms, dens, kitchens, and bathrooms), that are
suitable to be used as a sleeping area, including those areas labeled as
bedrooms, but may include any area in the dwelling unit that (because of its
size, location, facilities, or relationship to other areas of the dwelling
unit) is deemed divisible so as to potentially create one or more additional
bedrooms.
         b.   In the case of mobile homes, the fee shall be paid during the
subdivision platting process of the development. The appropriate fee will be
required to be paid before the approved final subdivision plat is released for
recording purposes.
         c.   The total amount of the park and recreation fee shall be
determined by the chief building official of the city based upon the
construction plans submitted with the building permit application. If the
applicant does not agree with the required park and recreation fee as
determined by the chief building official, the decision of the building
official may be appealed to the city board of adjustment.
      3.   Exemptions From Fee: The fees imposed by the above subsections shall
not apply to the following types of construction:
         a.   Reconstruction of a dwelling unit or portion thereof that has
been damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, or other causes over which the owner
has no control; or
         b.   Expansion, remodeling, and/or alteration of a dwelling unit where
no additional bedrooms are designed.
      4.   Park And Recreation Fund: The proceeds of the park and recreation
fee shall be collected and set aside in a fund entitled the “park and
recreation fund” to be used exclusively for the acquisition of new park land
and/or improvements thereon as follows:
         a.   At such time as the city council, based upon the recommendation
of the city community development department (as to the desirability of the
tract) and the planning commission (as to the appropriateness of the intended
land use), determines that sufficient funds have been accumulated in the park
and recreation fund for the purchase of new park land and/or to make
improvements thereon, the city council shall approve and initiate the necessary
procedures for such expenditures to be made.
         b.   Expenditures from the park and recreation fund shall be made only
to purchase new park land and/or to make improvements thereon that will
reasonably serve those areas that have, or will, pay such fees.
   B.   Dedication Of Park Land In Lieu Of Fee: As land is subdivided and
developed for residential purposes, the need for public or private park and
recreation areas is created. In order to provide for this need, there is hereby
established a procedure whereby land may be donated and dedicated either to the
public or to a properly created, administered, and managed property owner’s
association or similar entity provided by the subdivider as defined herein in
lieu of the requirement to pay park and recreation fees as a part of individual
building permits on lots or tracts within the subdivision as provided for and
described in subsection A of this section. The administration of this optional
procedure is hereby set forth as follows:
      1.   The determination of applicability and option to require and/or
accept dedication of land for public or privately owned park lands shall be as
follows:
         a.   All residential subdivision plats, having a dwelling unit density
greater than one dwelling unit per acre and greater in overall size than ten
(10) acres in gross area shall adhere to the provisions set forth in this
subsection, only if it is determined by the city council, based upon the
recommendation and advice of the city community development department staff
(as to the desirability of a particular tract or parcel) and the planning
commission (as to the appropriateness of the intended land use) that the
request by the subdivider to dedicate public or private park land shall be
acceptable to the city in lieu of park and recreation fees paid on each
building permit issued within the subject subdivision.
         b.   Upon approval by the city council, any person, firm, or
corporation subdividing land under the provisions of this title for residential
purposes located within the corporate boundaries of the city wishing to so
dedicate land for public parks shall provide for such dedication by subdivision
deed of dedication, general warranty deed, or other methods acceptable to the
city. Tracts, lots, parcels, or reserve areas approved to be used for public
park or open space areas by the city and so dedicated to the public shall be
considered an alternative to the payment of park and recreation fees on the
initial building permit issued for residential structures constructed on each
lot within the subject subdivision.
      2.   Standards for public and/or privately owned park land to be
dedicated for recreational and open space uses shall be as follows:
         a.   Any such dedication shall be of suitable size, dimension,
topography, and general character and shall have adequate street/roadway and
pedestrian access for typical park, recreational, and open space uses. The area
to be dedicated shall be designated on the sketch plat, the preliminary plat,
and the final subdivision plat as “public or private park”, as the case may be.
The method of dedication, along with the location and configuration of the
land, tract, lot, parcel, or reserve area shall be approved by the planning
commission and city council prior to the final release of the subdivision plat
for recording.
         b.   The amount of land to be dedicated as part of a single-family
residential subdivision in lieu of park and recreation fees paid on individual
building permits shall be determined on the basis of either one acre per one
hundred (100) dwelling units or five percent (5%) of the area contained within
the boundary of the subdivision plat, whichever is greater. All calculations of
the area to be so dedicated shall be initially provided by the subdivider for
review by city planning staff. The dedication requirements for a public or
private park located within a subdivision created for a multi-family project
shall be as follows: The minimum area required for the creation of a public or
private park or reserve area to be used for recreational purposes and to be
considered in lieu of the payment of park and recreation fees related to future
building permits within a subdivision that is intended for a multi-family
project shall be a minimum size of one acre on projects up to one hundred (100)
dwelling units. Projects having more than one hundred (100) dwelling units
shall be required to provide or dedicate a parcel with a minimum size of one
acre plus an additional two hundred (200) square feet of land area for every
dwelling unit exceeding the initial one hundred (100) units. The total land
area of any such proposed tract to be dedicated and/or reserved for park and
recreation purposes shall not be allowed to be included in the computation of
minimum bulk and area, livability, or open space requirements for the project
as set forth in the city zoning ordinance pertaining to multi-family projects.
         c.   If the proposed park parcel or tract is to be held under the
ownership of the original subdivider or dedicated to a property owner’s
association (properly created and registered with the state of Oklahoma),
provided for in recorded covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs) as
recorded in the public records, the adequacy of which has been reviewed and
approved by the city planning staff and the city council, shall list the city
as a party at interest in the property so designated as park on the final
subdivision plat. All associated improvement and maintenance costs of any such
privately held park shall be the responsibility of the subdivider or his
assigns in title and shall be enforceable by the city.
         d.   The use of any privately owned parcel or open space approved by
the city is restricted to typical park and recreational uses as set forth by
the recorded CC&Rs for the subdivision which shall run with the land in favor
of the current and future owners of property within the boundary of the
subdivision and the city. Such CC&Rs shall be fashioned such that they cannot
be modified or eliminated in any way without the consent of all such property
owners within the subdivision and the city.
         e.   Upon application by the subdivider, it shall be determined by the
city whether a proposed public or private park tract or parcel adds value and
overall livability quality to the owners of property within the subdivision and
the city as a whole. Such determination shall take into account the following
factors: location, size, configuration, topography, geology, access, tree
cover, watercourses and flood prone areas, historical sites, ease of
maintenance, and any other desirable natural assets.
         f.   As part of the consideration by the city, the subdivider shall
provide detailed descriptions and plans for the improvement of any tract or
parcel desired to be dedicated to the public, or held privately, for the
purposes of deferring city park and recreation fees. Such improvement plans
shall be in accordance with the intent of the recreational elements found in
the comprehensive master plan for the city as approved by the city council. All
such proposed and approved improvements shall be installed to the satisfaction
of the city and shall be so installed according to a mutually agreed upon
schedule. Upon city approval of the proposed park and recreational
improvements, the subdivider shall be required to post with the city a
performance bond or some other similar type of security approved by the city
equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the estimate of cost submitted to and
approved by city community development staff. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-11: EMERGENCY PUBLIC WARNING FACILITIES:
As a portion of this title, the submittal of a proposed sketch, preliminary, or
final subdivision plat, as described herein, may also be required to provide
for the dedication to the public of a certain lot or reserve area to be
utilized as a site for the installation of public emergency warning devices and
associated equipment such as, but not limited to, severe weather or tornado
outdoor sirens. The city emergency management staff has developed a citywide
plan locating all existing warning devices and has determined appropriate
locations of future facilities that will be necessary for adequate protection
of the residents of Glenpool in times of emergency. The subdivider is required
to determine whether an emergency warning facility is required for a location
within the subdivision being proposed. If the need for this facility is so
indicated, the subdivider shall be required to create a tract, lot, parcel, or
reserve area sufficient in size and configuration and in an appropriate
location to be dedicated to the city for the purpose of the installation and
operation of such warning devices. The subdivider shall also be required to
provide and install standardized warning equipment and control facilities as
specified by the city emergency management staff as part of the required public
and/or private infrastructure improvements constructed to support the
subdivision. The following are the minimum requirements should the need for
such dedication and equipment installation be required.
   A.   The location of any such dedication to the public of a lot, tract,
parcel, or reserve area within a proposed subdivision shall be in compliance
with an approximate location. Any proposed location shall be reviewed and
approved by the city emergency management staff during the subdivision plat
processing.
   B.   The minimum size of any such dedicated lot, tract, parcel, or reserve
area shall be thirty five feet by thirty five feet (35' x 35') or approximately
one thousand two hundred twenty five (1,225) square feet in land area.
Vehicular access to the dedicated property shall be achieved by the creation
and dedication of public access easements or rights of way appropriately
located and in widths sufficient to accommodate the installation and
maintenance of such facilities. The subdivider shall be required to locate and
create appropriate utility easements adequate to provide necessary utility and
communication services to the dedicated property.
   C.   The location and configuration of the dedicated lot, tract, or reserve
area along with the associated means of vehicular access shall be such that the
construction, operation, and maintenance of any emergency warning equipment
shall minimize the impact of such on surrounding properties.
   D.   The specification and installation of required emergency warning
equipment shall be a standardized facility design based on current warning
systems being required by the city emergency management staff. The installation
of such equipment shall be: fully complete and operational; located within the
boundary of the parcel, lot, tract, or reserve area being proposed; and
approved for dedication and use by the city emergency management staff prior to
final acceptance of the public infrastructure improvements serving the
subdivision. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-12: OIL AND NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION:
All final subdivision plats within the city shall show and detail the following
information as it pertains to oil and natural gas drilling and production
operations:
   A.   Location Provided:
      1.   All existing operative and inoperative wells shall be shown on the
face of the final subdivision plat.
      2.   The subdivider shall provide documentation to the city planning
staff that clearly indicates that all abandoned or inactive oil and natural gas
wells have been accurately located and properly and permanently plugged.
   B.   Setback Requirements: All residential structures within any proposed
subdivision or those proposed on any other existing or proposed lot, tract, or
parcel within the city shall be set back a minimum distance of one hundred
fifty feet (150') from any existing oil or natural gas well unless the well has
been properly abandoned and permanently plugged as evidenced by proper
documentation and accurately located by survey. Additionally, all such proposed
residences within a proposed subdivision or on any other lot, tract, or parcel
within the city shall be set back a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15') from
any oil or natural gas well that has been documented to have been properly
abandoned, permanently plugged, and accurately located by survey.
   C.   Well Site Access: All direct ingress or egress to existing oil and
natural gas drilling or production sites shall only be from section line roads.
No direct access shall be granted by way of public streets within any proposed
subdivision.
   D.   Certificates Of Nondevelopment: In any event, and at a minimum, a
certificate of nondevelopment, or similar clearance, shall be obtained from the
Oklahoma state corporation commission certifying to the existence or
nonexistence of any abandoned and/or plugged oil or natural gas wells within
the boundary of, or immediately adjacent to, the proposed subdivision as
reflected in their records. Research of other oil and natural gas well logging
or service company records may be required by the city to properly evaluate and
document health, safety, and welfare issues during the subdivision platting of
land under this title.
   E.   Final Subdivision Plats: All final subdivision plats shall be prepared
in accordance with the standards and requirements of the oil and gas drilling
regulations of the city in effect at that time and shall otherwise be in
compliance with this title, the city zoning ordinance, and all other applicable
regulations and requirements of the state, county, and the city. (Ord. 747, 11-
14-2017)
12-6-13: SEWAGE DISPOSAL AND PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   All proposed subdivisions shall be required to utilize a public
water supply and distribution system approved by the Oklahoma department of
environmental quality (ODEQ), the city engineer, or other appropriate
authority.
      2.   All such subdivisions shall be required to utilize a public sanitary
sewer collection system approved by the ODEQ and the city engineer. This
requirement may be appealed or waived only by review and approval by the city
engineer, city planning commission, and city council regarding the installation
of individual private sewerage treatment facilities serving individual lots
within a particular subdivision that are in compliance with ODEQ regulations
and have been individually permitted by ODEQ for such use prior to the issuance
of city building permits. The requirement may not be appealed or waived for a
subdivision that is within 500 feet of a City sanitary sewer main, in which
case the subdivision shall tie into such main so that the property will utilize
a public sanitary sewer collection system rather than individual private
sewerage treatment facilities.
      3.   All construction documents detailing the installation of
improvements and/or the extension of existing distribution, collection, and/or
treatment facilities pertaining to public drinking water and sanitary sewer
systems must be approved and permitted by ODEQ and the city engineer, or other
appropriate authority, prior to the construction of any such improvement.
   B.   Sanitary Sewage Collection Systems: The subdivider shall provide an
internal sanitary sewer collection system that is available to each lot within
the subdivision. The system shall be designed and constructed as approved and
permitted by the ODEQ and in accordance with this title, the city engineering
design criteria, and all other applicable regulations of the city. (Ord. 747,
11-14-2017)
12-6-14: HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENTS:
The development of hillside areas or any areas with natural slopes greater than
eight percent (8%) shall be designed to minimize grading and filling and in
such a manner as to retain the maximum feasible amount of natural ground cover.
Areas with natural slopes in excess of twenty percent (20%) shall be utilized
in accordance with the applicable provisions of the city zoning ordinance, city
engineering design criteria, and this title in regards to maximum finished
grades and other related considerations. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-15: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD):
   A.   When a subdivision is to be developed as a PUD (see section
12-9-13, figure 13 of this title), in accordance with all applicable
requirements set out in Title 11 and this title, the planning commission and
the city council may vary the requirements of this title in order to allow the
subdivider the ability to achieve those PUD purposes and goals set out in Title
11, Chapter 3, Subchapter 4, Planned Unit Development (PUD). However, all such
development shall be done in a manner that protects the public health, safety,
and general welfare of existing and future residents of the area and consistent
with the spirit and intent of this title and the city comprehensive master
plan.
   B.   Privately owned and maintained streets and other related subdivision
infrastructure improvements proposed to be located within mutual access
easements or common reserve areas may be allowed in planned unit developments.
All such private streets and any other associated private infrastructure
improvements constructed within private easements or reserve areas shall be
designed, reviewed, inspected, and constructed to the same standards as public
streets and public infrastructure improvements and shall be maintained by the
owners of land within such subdivision. All such private streets and associated
mutual access easements, and/or common area reserves shall remain open, or
appropriate and adequate provisions made, for access by police, fire,
emergency, and other official vehicles of all municipal, county, state, and
federal agencies at all times. The following additional requirements shall
apply:
      1.   Prior to the sale of any land within subdivisions where private
streets, mutual access easements, and/or common area reserves have been
approved, the subdivider shall erect private street signs and otherwise assure
the maintenance of such signs at all entrances to the subdivision and along all
private drives, street rights of way, mutual access easements, and common area
reserves indicating that any such street is privately owned. The location and
manner in which the sign is constructed and installed shall be subject to
approval by the city engineer.
      2.   No deed of conveyance shall be filed of public record for any land
within a planned unit development subdivision plat unless such deed clearly
states that all property owners within said subdivision automatically become
members of a homeowners’ association that has been properly created and duly
registered with the state of Oklahoma and which, therefore, has the
responsibility to install, maintain, and replace all private street and
associated private common area infrastructure improvements within the planned
unit development.
      3.   In order to assure that private street and private common area
improvements are properly designed, installed, and inspected, no building
permit shall be issued on any lot within the subdivision until all
improvements, public and private, have been designed and installed in
compliance with the construction documents submitted to and approved by the
city engineer and until the approval and acceptance of any public
infrastructure type improvements have been obtained from the city council.
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-16: SURVEY MONUMENTS:
Permanent survey monumentation markers shall be set in all subdivisions in
sufficient number, be in appropriate locations, and be of such durability so as
to not be readily disturbed, repositioned, or destroyed. Survey monuments shall
be set to also assure that, together with monuments already existing, the
perpetuation or reestablishment of any line or point in the subdivision
boundary or any lot or block corner within the subdivision can be easily
achieved or recovered. Survey monuments shall be constructed of material
capable of being detected with conventional survey instruments or those used to
locate ferrous or magnetic objects. Survey monuments shall further be in
accordance with the following standards and criteria:
   A.   Shall be placed at each turning point in the boundary of the
subdivision; be a minimum of eighteen inches (18") long; have a minimum
diameter of one-half inch (½"); be made of iron pipe or bar; or be made of such
other materials or size as approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Shall be placed at the corner of each lot in the subdivision; be a
minimum of eighteen inches (18") long; have a minimum diameter of one-half inch
(½"); and be made of iron pipe or bar; or of such other materials and size as
approved by the city engineer.
   C.   Shall be located along the centerline of each street right of way and
placed at all street intersections, points of curve, points of tangency, points
of compound curve, points of reverse curve, center of cul-de-sacs, and center
of any eyebrow.
   D.   In such cases where the placement of a required survey monument is
impractical as determined by the city engineer, a witness corner or reference
monument must be placed, preferably on a survey line within the boundary of the
subdivision, with reference data given to show its location on the ground in
relation to the official subdivision boundary, block, or lot corner. Any such
reference monument set and its supporting location information shall be
provided to the city engineer for public record purposes.
   E.   Benchmarks for vertical survey control shall be established within the
subdivision and be in accordance with the provisions of the city engineering
design criteria. All such vertical control monuments shall be: placed at
convenient locations; placed at intervals of one brass cap per twenty (20)
acres or part thereof; and be spaced proportionately throughout the
subdivision. Field determined information regarding description, locations, and
established elevations of all benchmark monuments set shall be submitted to the
city engineer for the purpose of public information prior to any building
permits being issued on lots within the subdivision. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-6-17: MODIFICATION TO LIMITS OF ACCESS OR NO ACCESS:
   A.   Intent: When land has been subdivided and platted under this title, or
under other applicable law, and the owner of any land affected by limits of
access or limits of no access created in compliance with this title shall have
the ability to: add limits of access or limits of no access to areas or lots
within the subdivision plat; remove existing limits of access; or otherwise
alter the limits of access or the limits of no access on the subdivision plat.
Any such action to add to or modify established limits of access or limits of
no access shall not require replatting nor shall it require vacation of the
existing subdivision plat. However, any such modification shall require the
approval by the city planning and engineering staff, city planning commission,
and the city council.
   B.   Application: The property owner, or the owner’s agent, with written
permission from the property owner, shall submit an application to the city
planning staff to add or modify certain limits of access or limits of no
access. Any such application shall include, at a minimum, the following
information:
      1.   Drawings: Ten (10) paper copies and one electronic copy (PDF) of a
scaled survey drawing which should not be greater in size than eleven inches by
seventeen inches (11" x 17"), shall be submitted with the application.
      2.   Specifications: The survey drawing submitted with the application
shall include the existing limits of access or limits of no access along with
proposed access modifications clearly identified. The survey drawing shall also
illustrate all existing curb cuts, drives, parking areas, easements, buildings,
and other relevant information with distances and dimensions shown from lot
lines and adjacent street rights of way.
   C.   Processing:
      1.   Planning Staff Review: The city planning and engineering staff shall
review and evaluate the impact of the proposed access modifications on traffic
flow, utility easements, and the implementation of various traffic and/or
infrastructure improvement plans as may have been previously adopted by the
city. The city planning and engineering staff shall also access the impact of
any requested access modifications on the flow of traffic on private streets
and to adjacent or abutting property owned by persons other than the applicant.
City staff comments shall be forwarded to the technical advisory committee
(TAC) to be reviewed for any impact on other public and private utility
provider facilities or their future needs.
      2.   Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) Review: The city planning staff
shall forward copies of the application, along with the supporting survey
drawing, to the technical advisory committee for review and comment. The
recommendation of the TAC shall be compiled with that of the city planning and
engineering staff and transmitted to the planning commission for consideration.
      3.   Planning Commission Review: The planning commission shall review the
proposed access modifications along with all review comments compiled by the
planning and engineering staff and those other comments expressed by the TAC
and shall either recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the
requested modifications. Any recommendation of approval or approval with
conditions determined by the planning commission shall be forwarded to the city
council for final review and consideration.
      4.   City Council Review And Decision: The city council shall review the
proposed access modifications along with all review comments by city staff, the
TAC, and the planning commission and shall either approve, approve with
conditions, or disapprove the application.
      5.   Filing Final Document: The owner or the owner’s agent, upon
satisfaction of any conditions of approval, or upon receiving an unconditional
approval from the city council, shall file a survey document accurately
illustrating the approved modification to existing limits of access or limits
of no access with the Tulsa County clerk and return a certified copy of the
recorded document to the city clerk. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 7
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-7-1: Required Improvements
12-7-2: Construction Documents; General Requirements
12-7-3: Installation Of Improvements; Performance Bond Or Letter Of Credit In
Lieu
12-7-4: Time Limit For Completion
12-7-5: Inspections And Certifications
12-7-6: Record Drawings
12-7-7: Acceptance Or Forfeiture Of Improvements
12-7-8: Maintenance Bond Or Irrevocable Letter Of Credit
12-7-1: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Public And/Or Private Street Improvements: The subdivider shall design,
grade, oversee, install, test, and otherwise improve all public and/or private
streets which are so designated on the approved final subdivision plat or which
directly serve and provide access to the subdivision from adjacent areas in
accordance with the city engineering design criteria and as approved by the
city engineer.
   B.   Street Signs And Names: The city planning staff shall establish the
initial street identification names to be placed on the final subdivision plat
per the street naming system adopted by the city. Selected street names shall
be subject to the approval of the final subdivision plat by the city council
after the review and resulting recommendation from the planning commission. The
subdivider shall provide all materials and labor necessary for the installation
of city standard street identification signs and poles in locations approved by
the city and shall also provide and install all traffic control devices and
signage as specified by the city engineer.
   C.   Streetlights: The subdivider shall provide adequate street lighting
along street rights of way, street intersections, and cul-de-sacs within the
subdivision and at all street entries into the subdivision from adjacent areas
in accordance with the specifications of the city engineering design criteria.
   D.   Monuments And Markers: Permanent survey reference markers shall be
placed according to the specifications in the city engineering design criteria
and as specified in this title. The location of all permanent subdivision
boundary corner monuments and required center of street rights of way marker
caps shall be shown and referenced on the face of the final subdivision plat.
   E.   Public Water Supply Extensions: The subdivider shall fully design,
permit, and install public potable water line extensions throughout the
subdivision connecting with approved public potable water sources sufficient to
provide water service and fire protection capability to each lot within the
subdivision. The installation of required public water line extensions shall
not receive city council approval and acceptance for maintenance until the city
engineer and the county health department certify that such installation is in
compliance with the regulations of the Oklahoma department of environmental
quality (ODEQ) and the city engineering design criteria.
   F.   Stormwater Management And Detention Facilities: The subdivider shall
design and fully install a stormwater drainage collection, conveyance, and
detention system that has been designed and constructed in accordance with the
city engineering design criteria and as approved by the city engineer.
   G.   Sanitary Sewer Collection System Extensions: The subdivision as a whole
and each lot within the subdivision shall be provided with service connections
to a public sanitary sewer main constructed in such a manner as to provide
service to each individual property within the subdivision. All service
connections shall be subject to the approval of the city public works and
engineering department and shall be in accordance with the regulations of the
Oklahoma department of environmental quality (ODEQ) and the city engineering
design criteria.
   H.   Utilities: All such privately owned utilities and associated facilities
shall be installed within the public easements, public or private street rights
of way, or certain reserve areas identified, illustrated, and specified on the
final subdivision plat. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-7-2: CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Two (2) sets of paper prints and one electronic (PDF) copy of the final
construction documents and associated specifications for the installation of
all improvements required by this title and the city engineering design
criteria shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer licensed in
the state of Oklahoma and submitted to the city engineer for review. Per the
requirements set forth in the city engineering design criteria and this title,
the city engineer shall either approve or require modifications to those
construction documents prior to granting final approval. Improvement
construction documents shall include, but not be limited to: general area
clearing, grubbing, and debris disposal; excavation, filling, and site and
street grading; potable water main extensions and associated service taps;
sanitary sewer collection main extensions and associated service taps; street
paving; stormwater collection, conveyance, and detention facilities; and
temporary and permanent erosion control measures.
   B.   The subdivider and the various contractors retained for the
installation of subdivision improvements shall be required to participate in
various preconstruction meetings with the appropriate city staff prior to the
actual installation of either public or private subdivision improvements.
   C.   Following the approval of the final subdivision infrastructure
construction documents by the city engineer and other appropriate permitting
agencies, the subdivider shall install all required improvements in a manner
satisfactory to the city engineer and in compliance with other permitting
agencies as applicable. Upon completion, any public improvements constructed
shall be free and clear of all liens, claims, and encumbrances, as required by
the city engineering design criteria. Public improvements installed and bonded
for maintenance purposes and as approved by the city engineer shall then be
submitted to and approved by the city council for public ownership and
maintenance purposes.
   D.   The final subdivision plat may then be submitted to the city council
for final approval. Upon obtaining such city council approval, the city
planning staff shall release the fully executed final subdivision plat to the
subdivider for filing in the office of the Tulsa County clerk. (Ord. 747, 11-
14-2017)
12-7-3: INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS; PERFORMANCE BOND OR LETTER OF CREDIT IN
LIEU:
   A.   Following the approval by the city planning and engineering staff of
the final public infrastructure construction documents, which is prerequisite
to the approval of the final subdivision plat by the city council, the
subdivider shall complete the installation of said public infrastructure
improvements in a manner satisfactory to the city engineer. All such completed
public infrastructure improvements shall be free and clear of all liens,
claims, and encumbrances.
   B.   The full installation of the public infrastructure improvements
supporting and servicing the subject subdivision is required to be fully
complete and accepted by the city for maintenance purposes prior to final
subdivision plat approval by the city council. In lieu of said prior
installation and acceptance of required infrastructure improvements by the
city, the subdivider shall be allowed to submit to the city engineer certified
performance bonds or a letter of credit issued to the city by a banking
institution acceptable to the city. Any such performance bonds or letters of
credit shall guarantee such installation of improvements in amounts equal to
one hundred percent (100%) of the engineer’s estimate of cost. Any such
submittal of performance bonds or letters of credit and the supporting
engineer’s estimate of costs shall be submitted to and reviewed and approved by
the city engineer, city attorney, and city council.
   C.   Any official vacation of the final subdivision plat, as provided by
state statute, shall remove the obligation to construct improvements by the
subdivider or any applicable bonding company or banking institution that has
issued performance sureties. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-7-4: TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLETION:
Upon granting approval of performance bonds or letters of credit submitted by
the subdivider in lieu of the actual installation of required public
infrastructure improvements, the subdivider and the city council shall agree
upon a deadline for the completion and city acceptance of such required
improvements. The maximum period within which required public infrastructure
improvements must be completed and accepted shall be specified by the city
council in the action approving the final subdivision plat and shall not exceed
two (2) years from the date of such final subdivision plat approval, unless
formally extended by the city council. Any such extension shall only be granted
by the city council for good cause as may be determined by the city council
upon written request submitted by the subdivider. Building permits will not be
accepted or approved within the subdivision until such time as all
infrastructure improvements have been completed and approved by the city. (Ord.
747, 11-14-2017)
12-7-5: INSPECTIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS:
The city public works department, city inspections department, and/or the city
engineer shall inspect the construction of any required public infrastructure
improvements associated with the subdivision for conformance with the approved
construction documents and related specifications. Upon completion of required
public infrastructure improvements, the city engineer shall file with the city
council a statement either certifying that the public infrastructure
improvements have been completed in accordance with this title and the city
engineering design criteria or that the improvements are defective, listing the
defects and appropriate corrective measures necessary to bring any such
defective work into compliance with city or other permitting agency
requirements. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-7-6: RECORD DRAWINGS:
Upon completion of all required public and private infrastructure improvements,
the subdivider and his or her engineering consultant shall file with the city
engineer one set of record drawings printed on mylar film, certified to and
signed by the engineer of record responsible for the design of the required
public or private infrastructure improvements along with one electronic copy
(PDF) of all subdivision improvements (public or private) including the
recorded final subdivision plat. The record or as built drawings shall be
issued to the city engineer prior to the issuance of any building permit on
property within the platted area. All record drawings shall certify:
   A.   That all required public improvements are fully complete.
   B.   That the completed public improvements serving the subdivision are in
compliance with this title, the city engineering design criteria, and the plans
and specifications approved by the city engineer and any other applicable
permitting agency. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-7-7: ACCEPTANCE OR FORFEITURE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
At the request of the subdivider, the city council shall accept by formal
recorded action any or all public infrastructure improvements for ownership and
maintenance purposes; provided, that all statements and agreements specified
above have been received and that record or as built construction documents
have been submitted to and approved by the city engineer, including a
certification that all such public infrastructure improvements are free from
any liens or similar financial encumbrances. All required maintenance bonds
covering public infrastructure improvements shall begin with the date of formal
acceptance by the city council. No building construction shall be permitted on
any lot to or on which improvements have not been completed, or the completion
guaranteed in accordance with the provisions of this title and the city
engineering design criteria. No municipal utility service will be furnished to
such lot until the approved record drawings have been received and approved by
the city engineer. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-7-8: MAINTENANCE BOND OR IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT:
Prior to final acceptance of public infrastructure improvements by the city
council, the subdivider shall obtain a maintenance bond or irrevocable letter
of credit from a surety, bonding company, or lending institution authorized to
do business in the state of Oklahoma. The bond or irrevocable letter of credit
shall be filed with the city clerk and shall be payable to the city upon
demand. The amount of the bond or irrevocable letter of credit shall be equal
to one hundred percent (100%) of the entire cost of public improvements
installed including all water line extensions, sanitary sewer collection lines,
streets, and grading, drainage, and stormwater management improvements. The
duration of the maintenance bond or letter of credit for street grading,
surfacing, curbs, and associated drainage structures (curb inlets) shall be two
(2) years from the date of formal acceptance of these public improvements for
ownership and maintenance purposes by the city council. The duration of
maintenance bonds or letters of credit for all other public improvements shall
be one year from the date of formal acceptance of those improvements for
ownership and maintenance purposes by the city council. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 8
LOT SPLITS
SECTION:
12-8-1: Authority
12-8-2: Intent
12-8-3: Procedures
12-8-4: Approval Or Disapproval Of Split
12-8-1: AUTHORITY:
The city planning commission pursuant to the powers and jurisdiction vested
through 11 Oklahoma Statutes article XLV, does hereby exercise the power and
authority to review, approve, and disapprove transfers of land ownership,
hereinafter referred to as lot splits. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-8-2: INTENT:
The provisions contained in this chapter are intended to establish minimum
procedures and standards for lot split applications, processing, and associated
approvals in order to accomplish the policy and purposes set forth in this
title. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-8-3: PROCEDURES:
The following procedures shall be followed in processing lot split
applications:
   A.   A standard city lot split application shall be filed with the city
planning staff, along with the appropriate fees paid, in accordance with the
following requirements:
      1.   Two (2) copies of an accurate scalable survey drawing along with an
electronic drawing file (PDF) shall accompany all lot split applications.
      2.   Any such survey drawing shall include and illustrate the following
at a minimum: all existing and proposed lot or property lines; all existing
easements; all existing buildings, structures, and pertinent site improvements;
dimensional information locating these features from lot or property lines;
adjacent street and street rights of way widths; existing and proposed access
provisions and/or limitations; current ownership of the property being
considered for lot split; a graphic north arrow; and applicable plan scale.
      3.   The lot split applicant is encouraged to limit the drawing to a
maximum size of eleven inches by seventeen inches (11" x 17").
   B.   As a part of the lot split review process, the city planning staff
shall:
      1.   Distribute copies of the application form and supporting drawing to
the technical advisory committee (TAC) and any other appropriate officials,
agencies, or departments that may have input on the lot split application;
      2.   Perform a field check of the area being lot split;
      3.   Review the application for conformance with the city comprehensive
master plan, city zoning ordinances, any applicable planned unit development
approval conditions, any previous city board of adjustment actions, and this
title; and
      4.   Prepare recommendations including comments received from other
officials, agencies, or departments contacted including those of the TAC.
   C.   For lot splits that involve acquiring access or utility easements or,
in the city planning staff’s opinion, require review by additional companies or
agencies, but yet do not involve a waiver of zoning or subdivision regulation
requirements, the following processing procedure shall be followed:
      1.   A copy of the lot split application and associated survey drawing(s)
shall be sent to the applicable utility suppliers and the city engineering and
public works department by the planning staff.
      2.   After each utility supplier or agency to which the lot split
application was referred has notified the planning staff of all requirements
and/or suggested modification, the planning staff shall in turn notify the lot
split applicant in writing of any requirements or modifications requested or
suggested.
      3.   If the proposed lot split involves a tract that is currently
utilizing or will utilize a private sewage disposal system, a copy of the
application form, associated drawings, and resulting permit received from the
Oklahoma state department of environmental quality (ODEQ) and the Tulsa County
health department permitting the construction and operation of any such
facility shall be provided to the planning staff prior to final planning
commission consideration and approval of the requested lot split.
      4.   When approvals from all applicable utility suppliers and/or other
agencies involved have been received, the city planning staff shall place the
lot split application on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled planning
commission meeting for review and consideration.
   D.   For lot split applications that involve or require a waiver of any
provision of this title, the following processing procedure shall apply:
      1.   The official lot split application cutoff date shall be observed.
Such cutoff date shall coincide with that of subdivision plat review
applications.
      2.   The applicant shall describe on the lot split application the exact
nature of the requested waiver and shall describe why strict compliance with
this title is not possible or feasible.
      3.   A copy of the lot split application and supporting documentation
shall be sent to the applicable utility suppliers, the city engineering and
public works department, and to the ODEQ and/or the Tulsa County health
department, if required. The planning staff shall inform the applicant of the
date of the technical advisory committee (TAC) meeting at which the application
shall be reviewed along with the details of the request for a waiver of this
title.
      4.   The planning staff shall present the lot split application at a
scheduled TAC meeting for comments, requirements, and recommendations from the
members of the committee.
      5.   The findings, comments, recommendations, and requirements of the TAC
shall be compiled along with those of the planning and engineering department
staff and forwarded to the next scheduled board of adjustment meeting for
review and consideration regarding any request for waiver from this title.
      6.   The board of adjustment shall review the lot split application and
any requested waiver of this title and either approve or disapprove the
application for waiver or variance. If the lot split application variance is
disapproved by the board of adjustment, the applicant may appeal the decision
of the board of adjustment to the Tulsa County district court. If the requested
variance is approved by the board of adjustment, the lot split application is
forwarded to the planning commission for final review and consideration at the
next regularly scheduled meeting.
   E.   The planning commission shall review the requested lot split
application, consider all comments from the planning staff, the TAC, the board
of adjustment, and those of any other applicable agency and shall either
approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the application. If the
planning commission denies a lot split application, the denial may be appealed
to the city council within ten (10) calendar days of the planning commission
meeting. The action of the city council shall be deemed final except as
otherwise subject to applicable state statutes. (Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-8-4: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF SPLIT:
   A.   Guidelines: Approval or disapproval of a lot split shall be based upon
the following guidelines:
      1.   Lots:
         a.   The resulting lot configuration, boundary dimensions, and land
area shall conform to the city zoning ordinance and this title.
         b.   In the case of lots not served by public sanitary sewers and/or
public water, such lots shall exceed the requirements set forth above with
sufficient additional area to properly accommodate a suitable private sewage
disposal system in accordance with the design standards set forth by the
Oklahoma department of environmental quality (ODEQ). Appropriate soil
percolation tests shall be made accordingly, with an adequacy determination to
be made by ODEQ as evidenced by the issuance of a permit to construct. A copy
of the issuance of a permit to construct by ODEQ shall subsequently be
submitted to the city planning staff for consideration during the review of the
lot split application and prior to any final planning commission approval.
         c.   Corner lots should have such extra width and area beyond the
minimum requirements for other lots as may be necessary to permit appropriate
setbacks from both streets ensuring adequate buildable space and any areas
required for the installation and operation of a private sewage disposal system
as applicable.
      2.   Utility Easements: Where a lot split will result in a lot having
inadequate access to utility easements, the dedication of additional easements
to the public shall be required in accordance with the requirements of the
applicable utility supplier or suppliers, this title, and the city engineering
design criteria.
      3.   Access And Streets:
         a.   Where a tract to be lot split is controlled by a nonaccess
provision, no lot split shall be approved where such provision will preclude
access to public right of way for the resulting lots.
         b.   The splitting of land shall provide each resulting lot with
access to a public street or highway such that the convenience of the lot owner
or user is assured. Any such lot split shall be accomplished in such a manner
that the resulting lots shall: provide adequate access to all private and
public utilities that may currently be available; and provide for adequate
garbage and waste removal services, emergency police and fire protection, and
other forms of public health and safety.
         c.   Where land to be lot split contains areas within its boundaries
designated for future street rights of way as illustrated on the major street
and highway plan adopted by the city, the lot split shall not be approved where
the resulting lot configurations fail to conform to such street plan regarding
the need for future arterial street rights of way, except upon a finding by the
city planning staff that:
            (1)   All public and private utilities are in place and additional
right of way is not required for future utility placement.
            (2)   The public has, by virtue of statutory easement or suitable
existing roadway right of way dedication, sufficient area to allow the
placement of pavement and related drainage facilities for the type of streets
and sidewalks illustrated on the major street and highway plan and in
accordance with the city engineering design criteria.
            (3)   Development made possible by the lot split will not
measurably increase the burden of traffic on an adjacent street to such an
extent that it would adversely affect the public health, safety, and welfare
requiring the dedication of additional right of way.
            (4)   Existing structures or natural obstacles lie in the right of
way alignment proposed by the major street and highway plan that preclude the
feasible extension of rights of way and street related improvements.
         4.   Sewage Disposal: Where a public sanitary sewer is reasonably
accessible, as determined by the city planning and engineering staff, and in
all instances where a proposed subdivision is within 500 feet of a City
sanitary sewer main, the subdivider shall connect with such existing sanitary
sewer and provide adequate sewer service to each resulting lot. Where no public
sewers are accessible and no plans for the same have been prepared, the
subdivider shall: design and install a gravity flow sewer line extension
connecting to and extending from an existing public sewer collection system of
appropriate capacity; install a sanitary sewer lift station and supporting
force main discharging into an existing public sanitary sewer collection system
of appropriate capacity; or provide a public or private sewerage treatment/
disposal system for the development of the resulting properties in accordance
with the city engineering design criteria. Any option chosen by the developer
involving the design and installation of facilities necessary for the
collection and discharging of sanitary sewerage shall be submitted to and
permitted by the Oklahoma department of environmental quality.
      5.   Water Service: All resulting lots shall be served by an approved
public water supply.
   B.   Certificate Of Approval:
      1.   Lot split approval shall be shown by certification on the resulting
instruments of ownership transfer (deeds) as required by state statute. The
certification shall be signed and dated by the chairperson of the planning
commission.
      2.   The lot split applicant may then file the ownership transfer
instruments (deeds) with the Tulsa County clerk with one certified copy of each
recorded transfer instrument returned to the city planning department. The
recorded transfer instruments shall be an official document that will be
contained in the abstract of title of each resulting lot split property. (Ord.
747, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 9
FIGURES
SECTION:
12-9-1: Figure 1, Subdivision Procedures For Nonplanned Unit Developments
12-9-2: Figure 2, Final Plat Certification Of Approval
12-9-3: Figure 3, Sketch Plat Of Creekwood Subdivision
12-9-4: Figure 4, Preliminary Plat Of Creekwood Subdivision
12-9-5: Figure 5, Final Plat Of Creekwood Subdivision
12-9-6: Figure 6, Neighborhood Concept
12-9-7: Figure 7, Open Space
12-9-8: Figure 8, Border Streets
12-9-9: Figure 9, Traffic Right-Of-Way Standards
12-9-10: Figure 10, Traffic Right-Of-Way Standards At Intersections
12-9-11: Figure 11, Street Pattern
12-9-12: Figure 12, Standard Location Of Underground Utilities
12-9-13: Figure 13, Planned Unit Development
12-9-1: FIGURE 1, SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES FOR NONPLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2341.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-2: FIGURE 2, FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATION OF APPROVAL:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2343.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-3: FIGURE 3, SKETCH PLAT OF CREEKWOOD SUBDIVISION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2345.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-4: FIGURE 4, PRELIMINARY PLAT OF CREEKWOOD SUBDIVISION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2347.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-5: FIGURE 5, FINAL PLAT OF CREEKWOOD SUBDIVISION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2349.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-6: FIGURE 6, NEIGHBORHOOD CONCEPT:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2351.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-7: FIGURE 7, OPEN SPACE:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2353.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-8: BORDER STREETS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2355.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-9: TRAFFIC RIGHT-OF-WAY STANDARDS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2357.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2359.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-10: FIGURE 10, TRAFFIC RIGHT-OF-WAY STANDARDS AT INTERSECTIONS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2361.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-11: FIGURE 11, STREET PATTERN:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2363.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-12: FIGURE 12, STANDARD LOCATION OF UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2365.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2367.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
12-9-13: FIGURE 13, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a85583cd44410b993b12783c99dec8f1022a11e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2369.png]
 
(Ord. 747, 11-14-2017)
