TOWN OF GRANITE, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2017 S-2 Supplement
Current through Ord. 227, passed 10-14-2014
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
   TOWN OFFICIALS OF GRANITE, OKLAHOMA
MAYOR         Tony Scarborough
TREASURER     Betty Monday
TOWN ATTORNEY William E. Gentry
TOWN CLERK    Laquita Paty
POLICE CHIEF  Frank Bone
FIRE CHIEF    James Haynes
COUNCIL
David Zachary Joe Don Murray
Russell Berry Anne Brooks
Town of Granite
420 N. Main Street
P.O. Box 116
Granite, OK 73547
Phone:   580/533-2116
Fax:   580/535-2123
Email:   graniteclerk@sbcglobal.net
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions and notes
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to statutes
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Town ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
   General powers, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This code may be cited as the “Granite Town Code” or other properly
identifying description. When a change or changes have been prepared and
inserted in the code as provided herein below, the words “as amended” may be
added to the citation or title when referring to the code as amended.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108, 14-109
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code, for the convenience of persons
using the code, and shall have no legal effect.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES or TOWN BOARD. The Town Board of Trustees of Granite,
Oklahoma.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Greer County, Oklahoma.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the state constitution and
state statutes, the ordinances of the town, and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS, AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, such as “Clerk,” “Town Clerk,”
“Town Attorney,” “Fire Chief,” “Police Chief” and the like they shall mean the
officers, agencies or departments of the town.
      PERSON. Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates and
government agencies, except when a contrary intention plainly appears.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the state as they now
are or as they may be amended.
      STREET. Street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, highway,
court, place, square, curb or any other public way in the town which is
dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN. The Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the town include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the town include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed by the Council after this
code goes into effect is invalid, all valid parts which are severable from the
invalid parts remain in effect. If a part of this code or of any ordinance
passed hereinafter is invalid in one or more of its applications, the part
remains in effect in all valid applications which are severable from the
invalid applications.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   Reference to the statutes of the state means the statutes as they are now or
as they may be amended, and a reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a certain
year also means the comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed prior to and in effect at the time the code is adopted but not included
in the code are hereby repealed as of the time when the code goes into effect.
Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed or amended by the
adoption of the code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.17 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance of the Town
Board, as provided hereinafter.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 1-402) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see 51 O.S.
§§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in 1986 and subsequently amended, the 1986
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(`85 Code, §
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the town an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or an
ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding $200, excluding costs. Each day or
any portion of a day during which any violation of this code or of any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in this section.
   (C)   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of
competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum fine levied, see 11 O.S. § 14-111
   Fines over $200 to be set by jury trial, see 11 O.S. § 27-119
CHAPTER 11: CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Corporate boundaries map
§ 11.01 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES MAP.
   (A)   A map depicting the current corporate boundaries of the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma, shall be maintained and displayed in the office of the Town
Hall.
   (B)   This map shall reflect all current annexation and de-annexation
ordinances and orders, all plat and/or street vacation orders and shall
represent the Official Map of the corporate boundaries of the town.
   (C)   This map may be combined with the Official Zoning Districts Map. All
dedicated streets and alleys shall be shown on this map; vacated streets and
alleys shall not be shown on the map, but shall be redrawn by the methods
provided by Oklahoma Statutes.
   (D)   This map shall be available for public inspection.
(`87 Code, § 23-5)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   FORM OF GOVERNMENT; TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES; ORDINANCES
      
31.   TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
      
33.   TOWN POLICIES
      
34.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
35.   FINANCES AND TAXATION; PURCHASING
CHAPTER 30: FORM OF GOVERNMENT; TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES; ORDINANCES
Section
Incorporation; Form of Government
   
30.01   Incorporation
   
30.02   Form of government
   
30.03   General powers of town
Town Board of Trustees
   
30.15   Election and terms of Trustees and officers
   
30.16   Powers of Board
   
30.17   Town policy and business
   
30.18   Board meetings
   
30.19   Removal of Trustees; vacancies
Ordinances
   
30.30   Succession in government
   
30.31   Nepotism; compatibility of offices
   
30.32   Ordinances
   
30.33   Ordinances adopted by reference
   
30.34   Compilation of ordinances
   
30.35   Amendments or additions to code of ordinances
INCORPORATION; FORM OF GOVERNMENT
§ 30.01 INCORPORATION.
   The Town of Granite, Oklahoma, within the corporate limits as now
established or as hereafter may be established, shall continue to be a
municipal body politic and corporate in perpetuity under the name of the “Town
of Granite, Oklahoma.” It shall succeed to and possess all the property,
rights, privileges,
franchises, powers and immunities now belonging to the corporation known as the
Town of Granite, Oklahoma, and shall be liable for all debts and other
obligations for which the corporation is now legally bound.
(`85 Code, § 1-1)
§ 30.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The municipal government provided for the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall
be as the “Town Board of Trustees” form of government. All powers of the town
shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this code of ordinances, future
ordinances or state law, provided that this code and all future ordinances are
not repugnant to the State Constitution and Laws.
(`85 Code, § 1-2)
§ 30.03 GENERAL POWERS OF TOWN.
   (A)   The Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall have all the powers, functions,
rights, privileges, franchises and immunities specifically granted to
municipalities or not prohibited by the State Constitution and Laws and all the
implied powers necessary to carry into execution all the powers granted.
   (B)   The Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall have the power to adopt a
corporate seal and alter the same, to sue and be sued and to make contracts and
to grant, extend and renew franchises. It shall have the power to issue bonds,
in accordance with the State Constitution and Laws and to accept and administer
federal and state grants-in-aid. It shall have the power to ordain and enforce
local legislation, consistent with the State Constitution and Laws, for the
proper organization and functioning of municipal government, for the
preservation and enforcement of good government and order, for the protection
of health, life, peace, safety, morals and property, for the preservation,
summary abatement and removal of nuisances and otherwise for the promotion of
the common welfare.
   (C)   The enumeration of particular powers of this code of ordinances shall
not be deemed to be exclusive or limiting. In addition to the powers enumerated
herein or implied hereby, the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall have all powers
which, under the State Constitution and Laws, it would be competent for this
code of ordinances specifically to enumerate.
(`85 Code, § 1-3)
TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.15 ELECTION AND TERMS OF TRUSTEES AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall consist and be composed of five
Trustees. Each Trustee shall be nominated and elected by the town at large,
according to current state law and Ordinance 169.
   (B)   At the general election on the first Tuesday in February, two Trustees
shall be elected for terms of four years; a Town Treasurer elected for a term
of four years; and at the general election on the first Tuesday in February,
three Trustees and the Town Clerk shall be elected for terms of four years.
(`85 Code, § 1-10)
§ 30.16 POWERS OF BOARD.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code of ordinances, all powers of the
municipality, including the determination of matters of policy, shall be vested
in the Town Board of Trustees; said Town Board shall have and may utilize all
of the powers granted to the municipality and the Town Board by the State
Constitution and Laws.
(`85 Code, § 1-11)
§ 30.17 TOWN POLICY AND BUSINESS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees of Granite, Oklahoma, shall conduct all
business of the municipality, set policy for the efficient administration of
government, administratively supervise all activities of municipal employees
and carry out their responsibilities, powers and duties as officers and as a
corporate and politic body, within the limits prescribed by the State
Constitution and Laws and the code of ordinances of the Town of Granite,
Oklahoma.
   (B)   It shall be the policy of the municipal government that no person
shall be discriminated against on the ground of race, creed, color, sex,
religion, national origin, handicap or age in employment, services, facilities
or other activities sponsored directly or indirectly by the Town of Granite,
Oklahoma.
   (C)   Every member of the Town Board of Trustees who shall be present when
the opportunity or need arises to vote upon a question shall vote thereon,
unless excused by the unanimous consent of those Town Board members present or
unless he or she is directly or indirectly interested in the question; in which
event he or she shall disclose his or her interest to the Town Board and it
shall be made a matter of record.
(`85 Code, § 1-12)
§ 30.18 BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONTINUED or RECONVENED. A meeting which is assembled for the purpose of
finishing business appearing on an agenda of a previous meeting. For the
purpose of this act, only matters on the agenda of the previous meeting at
which the announcement of the continuance is made may be discussed at a
continued or reconvened meeting.
      EMERGENCY MEETING. Any meeting called for the purpose of dealing with an
emergency. For purposes of this act, an EMERGENCY is defined as a situation
involving injury to persons or injury and damage to public or personal property
or immediate financial loss when the time requirements for public notice of a
special meeting would make such procedure impractical and increase the
likelihood of injury or damage or immediate financial loss.
      MEETING. The conducting of business of a public body by a majority of its
members being personally together.
      REGULARLY SCHEDULED MEETING. A meeting at which the regular business of
the public body is conducted.
      SPECIAL MEETING. Any meeting of a public body other than a regularly
scheduled meeting or emergency meeting.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of the Town of Granite shall hereafter meet once
a month, except to conduct special meetings, the regular meetings to be held on
the second Monday of each month commencing at 5:00 p.m.
   (C)   An agenda for each regularly scheduled meeting of the Granite Town
Board of Trustees shall be prepared and shall be publicly posted in the Town
Hall at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. The agenda shall contain
sufficient information in order to generally explain items to be discussed at
the meeting. At a minimum, the following items shall appear on the agenda:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Reading of the minutes;
      (3)   Clerk report;
      (4)   Old business;
      (5)   New business;
      (6)   Public participation;
      (7)   Adjournment.
   (D)   If any change in the date, time or place of a regularly scheduled
meeting is made, notice of the change shall be given to the Town Clerk no less
than ten days prior to the implementation of such change, and the Clerk shall
publicly post a notice of the change.
   (E)   In all meetings of the Granite Town Board of Trustees, the vote of
each member must be publicly cast and recorded.
   (F)   No informal gatherings or any electronic or telephonic communications
among a majority of the Trustees shall be used to decide any action or to take
any vote on any matter.
   (G)   Executive sessions of the Granite Town Board of Trustees will be
permitted only for the purpose of discussing the employment, hiring,
appointment, promotion, demotion, disciplining or resignation of any individual
salaried officer or employee. Any vote or action on any matter discussed in
executive session must be taken in public meeting with the vote of each member
publicly cast and recorded. No executive session of the Granite Town Board of
Trustees may occur except on a vote by a majority of a quorum of the members
present.
   (H)   The Clerk shall prepare a schedule of all meetings prior to each
calendar year and shall post this schedule in the Town Hall prior to December
15 preceding the calendar year for which the schedule has been determined.
   (I)   Special or emergency Town Board meetings may be called by the Mayor,
or by a majority of the Trustees, in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   Special meetings shall not be held without public notice, being
given at least 48 hours prior to the meeting. The public notice of the date,
time and place of a special meeting shall be given in writing, in person, or by
telephonic means to the Clerk;
      (2)   At least 24 hours prior to a special meeting, a written public
notice of the special meeting shall be prominently posted in the Town Hall. The
notice shall include the date, time, place and agenda for the special meeting,
and only items appearing on the agenda shall be considered at the meeting. The
24 hours public posting shall exclude Saturdays, Sundays and holidays legally
declared by the State of Oklahoma.
   (J)   In the event of an emergency, an emergency meeting of the Granite Town
Board of Trustees may be held without public note required. Should an emergency
meeting be required, as much advance public notice as is reasonable and
possible under the circumstances existing shall be made in person or by
telephonic or electronic means.
(`85 Code, § 1-13) (Am. Ord. 176, passed 1-26-87; Am. Ord. 180, passed 8-4-87;
Am. Ord. 184, passed 9-12-88)
§ 30.19 REMOVAL OF TRUSTEES; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor or any Trustee may be removed from office for any cause
specified by, and by the methods prescribed and specified by applicable state
law for the removal of officers, including 22 O.S. §§ 1161 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   Whenever a member of the Town Board of Trustees is absent from more
than one-half of all meetings of the Town Board (regular) held within any
period of four consecutive months, he or she shall thereupon automatically
cease to hold office unless:
      (1)   Absence is caused by illness; or
      (2)   The remaining members of the Town Board vote to retain him or her
on the Town Board.
   (C)   When a vacancy occurs in the office of any municipal elected official,
the governing body shall, by a majority vote of the remaining Trustees, appoint
a person to fill the vacancy until the next general municipal election and
until a successor is elected and qualified. Any vacancy shall then be filled at
the next general municipal election by election of a person to complete the
balance of the unexpired term. If the vacancy has not been filled within 60
days after it occurs, the Board of Trustees shall call for a special election
for the purpose of filling the vacancy for the duration of the unexpired term,
unless such vacancy occurs within 120 days prior to the first day of filing
period for the next general municipal election.
   (D)   When a majority of the governing body offices are vacant more than 60
days before the beginning of a regular filing period for general municipal
elections, the remaining members of the governing body shall call for a special
election to be held in the municipality for the purpose of filing all vacant
offices for the remainder of their unexpired terms.
(`85 Code, § 1-14) (Am. Ord. 199, passed 6-6-96)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.30 SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   All ordinances, insofar as they are not inconsistent with this code of
ordinances, shall continue in effect until they are repealed or until they
expire by their own limitations.
   (B)   All officers and employees of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, under any
and all previous ordinances, shall continue in the offices and employments
which they respectively hold, after this code of ordinances goes into effect.
   (C)   All books, vouchers, monies or other property belonging to the town
and in charge or possession of any officer of the town shall be delivered to
his or her successor.
(`85 Code, § 1-148)
§ 30.31 NEPOTISM; COMPATIBILITY OF OFFICES.
   (A)   No member of the Town Board of Trustees nor any other authority of the
municipal government may appoint or vote for the appointment of any person
related to himself or herself by affinity or consanguinity within the third
degree to any office or position of profit in the municipal government.
   (B)   The following relatives shall be considered as within the third degree
of affinity or consanguinity: sons, daughters, grandsons, granddaughters, great
grandsons, great granddaughters, brothers, sisters, nephews, nieces, aunts,
uncles, grandfathers, grandmothers, grand uncles, grand aunts, great
grandfathers, great grandmothers, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandson-in-law,
granddaughter-in- law, great grandson-in-law, great granddaughter-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, nephew-in-law, niece-in-law, aunt-in-law, uncle-
in-law, primary cousins-in-law, grandfather-in-law, grandmother-in-law, grand
uncle-in-law, grand aunt-in-law, great grandfather-in-law, great grandmother-
in-law, grand nephew, grand niece, grand nephew-in-law, grand niece-in-law,
stepson, stepdaughter, stepfather or stepmother; a divorce decree shall be
deemed to dissolve all relationships arising by that marriage.
   (C)   Except as may be otherwise provided by ordinance, the same person may
hold more than one office or position in the municipal government.
(`85 Code, § 1-149)
§ 30.32 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the Town Board of
Trustees shall be: “Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees of the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma,” and of all ordinances proposed by the voters under their
power of initiative, “Be it ordained by the People of the Town of Granite,
Oklahoma.”
   (B)   Every proposed ordinance shall be read and a vote of a majority of all
the Trustees shall be required for its final passage.
   (C)   The Mayor shall have no power to veto any ordinance.
   (D)   Every ordinance, except those excepted by state law, shall be
published by title or in full, within ten days after its passage, in a
newspaper of general circulation within the town or county or posted in ten
public places within the town.
   (E)   Every ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall become effective
30 days after its final passage, unless it specifies a later date.
   (F)   An emergency ordinance is an ordinance which, in the judgment of the
Town Board of Trustees, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the
peace, health or safety and which should become effective prior to the time
when a regular ordinance would become effective. Every such ordinance shall
contain, as a part of its title, the words “and declaring an emergency” and, in
a separate section (herein called the emergency section), shall declare the
emergency. The Town Board of Trustees shall vote on the emergency section
separately and must adopt the emergency section by a vote of at least three-
fourths of all the members of the Town Board. An emergency ordinance shall take
effect upon passage, unless it specifies a later date.
(`85 Code, § 1-150)
§ 30.33 ORDINANCES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Town Board of Trustees, by ordinance, may adopt by reference codes,
ordinances and standards relating to building, plumbing, electrical
installations and other matters which it has the power to regulate. Such a
code, ordinance or standard so adopted need not be enrolled in this code of
ordinances, provided that three copies are filed and kept in the office of the
Town Clerk.
(`85 Code, § 1-151)
§ 30.34 COMPILATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Every ten years, the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall compile and
publish its effective penal ordinances in a permanent form.
   (B)   One copy of the compilation of ordinances shall be deposited by the
Town in the County Law Library, and two copies shall be filed with the Clerk of
the State Supreme Court.
   (C)   Every two years the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall publish
supplements to its compiled penal ordinances, and no ordinance shall be
enforced if it is not reflected in such compilation or supplement, if such
ordinance was adopted more than one year prior to the later compilation or
supplement.
   (D)   When the town has compiled and published its ordinances, the Town
Board of Trustees shall adopt a resolution notifying the public of such
compliance and cause certified copies of the resolution to be filed in the
office of the Greer County Clerk and in the office of the Clerk of the State
Supreme Court.
(`85 Code, § 1-152)
§ 30.35 AMENDMENTS OR ADDITIONS TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall have the power to repeal, alter or
amend this code of ordinances.
   (B)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect said code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code of ordinances and printed for inclusion
therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection,
or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from this code
of ordinances by omission thereof from reprinted pages. Such inclusion of
ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances which amend or add to
this code (except in the case of repeal) shall be prima facie evidence of such
subsequent ordinances until such time that this code of ordinances and
subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of
ordinances by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code of ordinances shall
be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the chapter,
subchapter and section number of this code in the following language: “That
Section               of Chapter                  , of the code of ordinances,
Town of                 , Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as follows:
‘                          .’” The new provisions shall then be set out in full
as desired.
   (D)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code of
ordinances is to be added, the following language shall be used: “That the code
of ordinances, Town of                 , Oklahoma, is hereby amended by adding
a section to Chapter                , to be numbered               , which
section reads as follows: ‘                                                .’”
The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(`85 Code, § 1-153)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Mayor and Vice Mayor
   
31.02   Town Clerk
   
31.03   Town Treasurer
   
31.04   Municipal Judge; Alternate and Acting Judge
   
31.05   Town Attorney
   
31.06   Fire Chief; Assistant Fire Chief
   
31.07   Building Inspector
   
31.08   Electrical Inspector
   
31.09   Plumbing Inspector
   
31.10   Utilities Superintendent
   
31.11   Emergency Management Director
   
31.12   Employee disciplinary actions   
   
31.13   Officers to give bonds
   
31.14   Compensation; change of salaries
§ 31.01 MAYOR AND VICE MAYOR.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall elect one of its members as Mayor and
Vice Mayor. The Mayor and Vice Mayor shall be elected in each odd numbered year
at the first Town Board meeting held after the Trustees’ terms begin or as soon
thereafter as practicable.
   (B)   When a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Town Board of
Trustees shall elect another Mayor from among its members to serve for the
duration of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Town Board of Trustees
and may call special meetings thereof.
   (D)   The Mayor shall certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances
and resolutions passed by the Town Board of Trustees. The Mayor shall have all
the powers, rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities of all Trustees
and, as an elected representative of the citizens of Granite, may vote on all
matters that come before the Town Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Mayor shall be recognized as the head of the municipal government
for all ceremonial purposes.
   (F)   The Mayor shall perform all other duties prescribed by state law or
ordinance.
(`85 Code, § 1-25)
§ 31.02 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk, as an officer of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall
attend all meetings of the Town Board of Trustees and keep a journal of the
proceedings of the Town Board.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall have custody of all documents, records and
archives of the town, as well as be custodian of the municipal seal.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall attest and affix the seal to documents as
required by law or ordinance and shall see that all ordinances passed are kept
on file, in triplicate, in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall have such other powers, duties and functions as
may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall so keep his or her accounts as to show where and
from what sources all monies paid him or her have been derived and to whom and
when such monies or any part thereof have been paid. His or her books, accounts
and vouchers shall at all times be subject to the examination of the Town Board
of Trustees.
   (F)   Recordkeeper.
      (1)   There is hereby created a position for the performance of such
duties relating to the maintenance of the books and records and office
operations of the town as the Board of Trustees shall prescribe. This position
shall be filled by the person serving as the Town Clerk or as otherwise
provided by the Board of Trustees. This person shall be an employee of the town
and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The pay period for such position shall be the same as for other
municipal employees. Benefits, holidays, and sick leave for such position shall
be provided in accordance with any personnel policy or other policy of the
town.      
(`85 Code, § 1-26) (Am. Ord. 220, passed 5-10-04)
§ 31.03 TOWN TREASURER.
   The Town Treasurer shall be an officer of the town. The Treasurer shall:
   (A)   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to him or her have been derived and to whom and when any moneys
have been paid;
   (B)   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinance. The Treasurer’s books and accounts shall at all times be
subject to examination by the Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 1-27)
§ 31.04 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; ALTERNATE AND ACTING JUDGE.
   (A)   There shall be one Judge of the Municipal Court, and he or she shall
be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent of the Town Board of Trustees; the
Mayor may be designated as Judge upon approval of the Town Board.
   (B)   The Municipal Judge shall be at least 25 years of age, a resident of
the Town of Granite, Oklahoma (unless he or she is a licensed attorney), shall
have a high school education (or the equivalent) and be of good moral
character. A Judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law
in other courts, but he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent with
his or her duties as a Municipal Judge or arising out of facts which give
rights to, or are connected with, cases within the jurisdiction of the Court
pending therein or which might be subject of proceedings therein. At the
request of a defendant, with the approval of the Court, any fine imposed may be
paid by the defendant engaging in the community service without compensation.
The community service would be at the direction of the Municipal Judge and
monitored by the Chief of Police. If a fine is imposed on a minor, the request
for community service shall be made by a parent, guardian or any person having
custody and control of the minor. Community service shall be allocated at not
less than the minimum wage which will be applied to the fine and costs imposed.
   (C)   If the Judge of the Municipal Court is not a licensed attorney, the
trial shall be to the Court and the Court may not impose a fine which exceeds
$50 plus costs and may not order the defendant imprisoned, except for the
nonpayment of fines or costs. If the Judge of the Municipal Court is a licensed
attorney, the fine may not exceed $1,000, plus costs.
   (D)   The official term of the Municipal Judge shall be two years, starting
on June 30 in each odd- numbered year. The Municipal Judge, unless sooner
removed for proper cause, shall serve until his or her successor is appointed
and qualified.
   (E)   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall receive a salary as prescribed
by the Town Board of Trustees, paid in the same manner as the salaries of other
municipal employees.
   (F)   The Municipal Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the State
Constitution and Laws and this code of ordinances, for the proper conduct of
the business of the Municipal Court.
   (G)   There may be appointed an Alternate Judge of the Municipal Court,
possessed of the same qualifications of the Municipal Judge.
      (1)   His or her appointment shall be for the same term and made in the
same manner as the Municipal Judge. He or she shall sit as Acting Judge of the
Municipal Court in any case if the Municipal Judge is absent from the Court,
unable to act as Municipal Judge in a case.
      (2)   If, at any time, there is no Municipal Judge or Alternate Judge,
duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as Municipal Judge, the Town
Board of Trustees may appoint some person possessing the qualifications
required by this chapter for the Municipal Judge, who shall preside as Acting
Judge over the Municipal Court in the disposition of pending matters until such
time as a Municipal Judge or Alternate Judge shall be available.
   (H)   An Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge shall be paid, as prescribed by
the Town Board of Trustees, for each day devoted to the performance of his or
her duties, except that for any month the total payments so calculated shall
not exceed the salary of the Municipal Judge in whose stead he or she sits. An
Alternate or Acting Judge who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount
specified by the Town Board of Trustees as the salary of the Municipal Judge in
whose stead he or she sits.
   (I)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the Town Board of
Trustees for the causes prescribed by the State Constitution and Laws for the
removal of public officers. Provisions of the Oklahoma Administrative Procedure
Act governing individual proceedings (75 O.S. §§ 309 through 317 and any
amendments or additions thereto in effect at the time of the hearing) shall
govern removal proceedings hereunder so far as they can be made applicable.
   (J)   A vacancy in the office of Municipal Judge shall occur if the
incumbent dies, resigns, ceases to possess the qualifications for the office or
is removed. Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Municipal Judge,
the Mayor shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term, using the
same procedure as for an original appointment.
(`85 Code, § 1-29) (Am. Ord. 186, passed 8-14-89; Am. Ord. 222, passed 1-9-06)
Cross reference:
   Municipal Court, see
Chapter 34
§ 31.05 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Town Attorney may be appointed by the Town Board of Trustees on a
contractual basis.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to give legal advice on
questions submitted to him or her by the Town Board of Trustees when the
subject matter concerns the powers of any municipal officials or employees or
the performance of their duties.
   (C)   The Town Attorney shall draw the ordinances, resolutions, notices,
forms, leases, deeds, papers or other documents as may be required of him or
her by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The Town Attorney shall be authorized to appear, prosecute and defend
all actions wherein the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, is a party, and he or she
shall institute proceedings in courts of law upon the order of the Town Board
of Trustees.
   (E)   The Town Attorney shall be allowed actual and necessary traveling and
hotel expenses while outside the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, and on official
business for the town, provided that his or her business has been approved and
directed by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (F)   The Town Attorney shall perform such other duties as the Town Board of
Trustees may require, provided that such duties are included within the scope
of the contractual arrangement.
(`85 Code, § 1-30)
§ 31.06 FIRE CHIEF; ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Fire Chief. 
      (1)   There is created the office of Chief of the Fire Department, who
shall be elected by the firefighters in November of each year and approved by
the Board of Trustees. His or her term of office shall begin in December of
each year, until his or her services are terminated by death, resignation,
removal by the Town Board or other legal manner.
      (2)   Duties of the Fire Chief shall include:
         (a)   The Fire Chief shall have supervision and control of the Fire
Department, subject to the state law, the provisions of this chapter, other
ordinances of the town and the Town Board of Trustees; he or she shall
diligently perform the duties imposed upon him or her by law and ordinance;
         (b)   The Fire Chief shall be held responsible for the general
condition and efficient operation of the Fire Department and the training of
members and may assign duties to other members of the Department;
         (c)   The Fire Chief shall inspect or cause to be inspected by members
of the Department the fire hydrants and water supply sources of the town at
least once each year;
         (d)   The Fire Chief shall maintain a library or file of publications
on fire prevention and fire protection;
         (e)   The Fire Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and
direct and have complete charge of the officers and members of the Fire
Department in the performance of their duties;
         (f)   The Fire Chief shall ensure that the Town Board of Trustees and
the town’s citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the community and on
the activities of the Fire Department;
         (g)   The Fire Chief shall see that each fire is carefully
investigated to determine its cause and, in the case of incendiarism, shall
notify proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for
future use in the case; and
         (h)   The Fire Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all
fires, inspections, apparatus, equipment, personnel and other information about
the work of the Fire Department.
         (i)   The Fire Chief shall file the appropriate fire loss reporting
forms with the State Fire Marshal’s office in Oklahoma City each quarter of the
calendar year. The reports shall include notification of all fire related
deaths in the jurisdiction and of firefighter injuries in the line of duty
requiring the services of a physician.
(`85 Code, § 1-31)
   (B)   Assistant Fire Chief; other officers.
      (1)   The Assistant Chief of the Fire Department shall be elected by the
firefighters in November of each year and approved by the Board of Trustees,
same as the Fire Chief. In the absence of the Fire Chief, the Assistant Fire
Chief shall command the Fire Department and be held responsible therefor in all
respects with the full powers and responsibilities of the Fire Chief.
      (2)   The officers of the Fire Department shall be selected upon their
ability to lead men and their knowledge of firefighting and firefighting
equipment.
      (3)   One member elected by the members of the Fire Department shall be
Secretary-Treasurer. His or her duties shall consist of calling the roll at
each meeting, keeping the minutes of each meeting and collecting any moneys due
the Department by the members.
(`85 Code, § 1-32)
Cross reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Chapter 93
§ 31.07 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is created the office of Building Inspector for the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma. The Building Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Board
of Trustees. His or her appointment shall continue during good behavior and
satisfactory service, and he or she shall not be removed from office except for
cause after full opportunity has been given him or her to be heard on specific
charges.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall be in good health and shall be physically
capable of performing the duties of his or her office.
   (C)   The powers and duties of the Building Inspector shall be as follows:
      (1)   To enforce all provisions of the codes adopted by this code of
ordinances;
       (2)   To receive and process applications required by such codes or this
code of ordinances;
      (3)   To review building permit applications, other permit applications
and issue required certificates;
      (4)   To examine premises for which permits have been issued under such
codes or this code of ordinances and make necessary inspections to see that the
provision of the codes or this code of ordinances are complied with and that
construction is done safely;
      (5)   To investigate, when requested by the Town Board of Trustees, or
when the public interest so requires, matters referred to in such codes and
render written reports on the same;
      (6)   To issue such notices or orders as may be necessary to enforce
compliance with the adopted codes or this code of ordinances, to remove illegal
or unsafe conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during construction or
to require adequate exit facilities in buildings and structures; and
      (7)   To make inspections required under the provisions of the codes
adopted by this code of ordinances or to ensure that inspections are made by
his or her duly appointed assistant.
   (D)   The Building Inspector, or other designated town employee, while in
the discharge of his or her official duty, shall have the authority to enter
any building or premises for the purpose of making any inspection or test of
the construction or equipment contained herein or its installation.
   (E)   The Building Inspector may also serve as any other legally established
Inspector, if so designated by the Town Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 1-33)
Cross reference:
   Codes adopted, see §§
150.25 et seq.
§ 31.08 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is created the office of Electrical Inspector for the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma. The Electrical Inspector shall be appointed by the Town
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Electrical Inspector shall have had experience as an electrician,
shall be of good moral character and shall be knowledgeable of the approved
methods of electrical construction.
   (C)   The Electrical Inspector shall have all of the powers and duties
prescribed by the Electrical Code adopted by this code of ordinances and shall
also insure that all municipal ordinances and regulations relating to
electrical safety are properly enforced.
(`85 Code, § 1-34)
§ 31.09 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is created the office of Plumbing Inspector for the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma.
   (B)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Board of
Trustees; the Plumbing Inspector may also hold other positions in the municipal
government.
   (C)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have all of the powers and duties
prescribed by the Plumbing Code adopted by this code of ordinances; he or she
shall also ensure that all municipal ordinances and regulations relating to
water and sanitary plumbing are properly enforced.
(`85 Code, § 1-35)
§ 31.10 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   There is created the office of Utilities Superintendent for the Town
of Granite, Oklahoma. The Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed by the
Town Board of Trustees, and his or her appointment shall continue during good
behavior and satisfactory service. He or she may hire employees for the water,
gas, electric, sewer and solid waste systems with the approval of the Town
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   He or she shall have charge of the maintenance and operation of all
municipal utilities and perform such duties in connection therewith as are
required of him or her by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have power to incur expenditures
for the maintenance of the utility departments and for the maintenance of city
buildings and vehicles with the approval of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The Utilities Superintendent or any other employee working in the
Utilities Department shall, within one year from the beginning date of
employment, be certified by the Oklahoma State Department of Health as a sewer
system and water system operator.
   (E)   The Utilities Superintendent may also act as Building Inspector,
Plumbing Inspector, Gas Inspector, Electric Inspector, Sewer Inspector or in
any capacity as the Town Board of Trustees may prescribe.
(`85 Code, § 1-36)
Cross reference:
   Public Works, see Title V
§ 31.11 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The office of Emergency Management Director is created, to be
appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Director shall be executive head of the
Department of Emergency Management and shall be responsible for carrying out
the Emergency Management Program of the town.
   (C)   The Director of Emergency Management shall have the authority, duty
and responsibility to:
      (1)   Form an organization to prepare and implement an Emergency
Management Program;
      (2)   Form committees to perfect such an organization;
      (3)   Appoint the Chairperson of such committees;
      (4)   Cooperate with other governmental civil defense agencies; and
      (5)   Formulate plans, gather information and maintain records for the
Emergency Management Organization.
   (D)   The Director of Emergency Management may be reimbursed for expenses
incurred in the performance of his or her duties, provided such expenses are at
the direction of, and approved by, the Town Board of Trustees.
   (E)   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Emergency Management Director, after authorization from the
Mayor, shall have the authority to enforce all regulations relating to civil
defense for the purpose of protecting the residents of the town.
(`85 Code, § 1-45)
Cross reference:
   Department of Emergency Management, see §§
32.025 et seq.
§ 31.12 EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   (A)   In the event of disciplinary action, each employee shall be given a
statement of the specific charges, allegations and/or reasons upon which a
possible disciplinary action is being considered. If a possible consequence of
such consideration may result in more than an oral or written warning that the
complained of action by the employee is damaging to his or her continued
services, the statement of charges, allegations and/or reasons shall be made in
writing.
   (B)   No public disclosure of the statement of the charges, allegations and/
or reasons to or of any other considerations in the action shall be made.
   (C)   The employee shall be notified of and be given the opportunity to
formally answer the statement of charges, allegations and/or reasons to the
appointing authority.
   (D)   The employee shall be notified of and be given the opportunity to call
witnesses and to cross examine witnesses.
   (E)   Except as modified by any valid labor agreement, the employee shall be
notified of his or her opportunity to have someone of his or her own choosing
appear with him or her or on his or her behalf at any stage of consideration of
the statement of charges, allegations and/or reasons.
   (F)   The employee shall be notified of the time frames in which he or she
may respond to each and every state of the consideration. Time frames shall be
specified as maximums and shall be set so that ample opportunity is available
for the employee to organize and prepare for his or her appearance.
   (G)   The employee shall be notified of the possible consequence(s) of
failure on his or her part to cooperate fully in any consideration and of the
possible disciplinary action(s) that may be considered by the appointing
authority.
   (H)   The Town Board of Trustees shall base any decision only on the merits
of all facts and information brought out after the initiation of the
opportunity for the employee to formally answer the statement of charges,
allegations and/or reasons.
   (I)   Disciplinary action, if taken, shall be appropriate to the facts and
information developed in the process of considering the statement of charges,
allegations and/or reasons.
   (J)   The employee shall be advised of the final action to be taken by the
appointing authority and of the disposition of any and all records developed or
made during the process of the consideration. If a possible consequences of
such consideration may result in more than an oral or written warning that the
complained of action by the employee is damaging to his or her continued
service, the statement or charges, allegations and/or reasons shall be made in
writing.
   (K)   The employee shall be advised of any further actions he or she may
pursue through the formal organization of his or her employer to appeal or seek
review of the final action taken by the appointing authority or disposition of
any and all records developed or made during the process of the considerations.
   (L)   The Mayor shall have the authority to suspend an employee for cause
pending an evaluation by the Board.
(`85 Code, § 1-46)
§ 31.13 OFFICERS TO GIVE BONDS.
   The Town Clerk, Chief of Police and the town’s Purchasing Agents shall each
give bonds, payable to the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, within ten days after
their election or appointment, in the following manner:
   (A)   Town Clerk: $10,000;
   (B)   Assistant Clerk: $10,000;
   (C)   Town Treasurer: $23,000;
   (D)   Chief of Police: $10,000.
   (E)   Part-time clerical: $10,000.
   (F)   Town Judge: $10,000.
   (G)   Town Council: $10,000.
(`85 Code, § 1-146)
§ 31.14 COMPENSATION; CHANGE OF SALARIES.
   (A)   The basic compensation of the following elected municipal officers
shall be as determined by the Town Board of Trustees from time to time.
   (B)   The basic salaries of elected municipal officials shall not be changed
after their election or during their term of office.
   (C)   The Town Board of Trustees may determine or regulate the number and
class of officers and employees and determine or change their compensation by
motion or resolution.
   (D)   Officers and employees of the town, when on official business for the
town as authorized by the Mayor, Acting Mayor or the Board of Trustees, may be
reimbursed for travel, lodging and meals. The compensation shall be the same as
authorized for state employees by the Oklahoma Legislature or as otherwise
provided by motion of the Town Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 1-147)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see the State Constitution, Article 10 and 23
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
Section
Police Department
   
32.001   Department created; Chief of Police
   
32.002   Police officers
   
32.003   Minimum qualifications
   
32.004   Powers
   
32.005   Warrants, writs, execution and other process
   
32.006   Compensation
   
32.007   Personal property
   
32.008   Assistance to and from other municipalities
   
32.009   Identification card and badge
   
32.010   Reserve officers
   
32.011   Additional duties
Department of Emergency Management
   
32.025   Created
   
32.026   Purpose
Emergency Management Committee
   
32.040   Organization
   
32.041   Vice-Chairperson and Secretary
   
32.042   Meetings
   
32.043   Function
Municipal Planning Commission
   
32.055   Commission created
   
32.056   Terms of members
   
32.057   Appointment; compensation
   
32.058   Removal from office; vacancies
   
32.059   Vice-Chairperson, Secretary; other offices
   
32.060   Regional Planning Commission
Fair Housing Board
   
32.090   Board created; terms of members
   
32.091   Duties
Library Board
   
32.105   Board created
   
32.106   Composition; terms
   
32.107   Advisory responsibilities
   
32.108   Rules and regulations
Board of Health
   
32.120   Board composed of Board of Trustees
   
32.121   Supervision
   
32.122   Duties
   
32.123   Health officer
Cemetery Board
   
32.135   Board created
Cross-reference:
   Volunteer Fire Department, see §
93.01
   Planning Commission, see
Chapter 152
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.001 DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF OF POLICE.
   There is created a Police Department for the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, the
head of which shall be the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall be
appointed by the Town Board of Trustees. His or her term of office shall be
until his or her services are terminated by death, resignation, removal by the
Town Board of Trustees or other legal manner.
(`85 Code, § 1-28(1))
§ 32.002 POLICE OFFICERS.
   One or more police officers may be appointed by the Chief of Police, subject
to confirmation by the Town Board of Trustees; the police officers may be
removed by the Town Board of Trustees, for cause, at a regular meeting, by a
majority vote of all of the Town Board members.
(`85 Code, § 1-28(2))
§ 32.003 MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS.
   All employees (Chief and officers) shall meet minimum qualifications. These
include completion of evaluation similar to the Minnesota Multiphasic
Personality Inventory, or its equivalent, or other evaluation as determined by
the Council on Law Enforcement Education and Training and possession of a
certificate attesting to satisfactory completion of a basic police course, as
approved by the Council on Law Enforcement Education and Training of not less
than 300 hours. Every person who is not the holder of such certificate and is
duly appointed as a police or peace officer shall be appointed to such position
on a temporary basis only and shall, within one year from the date of
appointment, qualify as required or forfeit such position. For the purpose of
this section, a POLICE OR PEACE OFFICER is defined as a full-time duly
appointed officer who is paid for more than 30 hours per week.
(`85 Code, § 1-28(3))
§ 32.004 POWERS.
   The Chief of Police and all police officers shall possess the powers and be
subject to the liabilities possessed and conferred by law upon sheriffs in
executing the orders of the Trustees or enforcing the code of ordinances of the
Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 1-28(4))
§ 32.005 WARRANTS, WRITS, EXECUTION AND OTHER PROCESS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and/or all police officers to
bring to justice all violators of the municipal ordinances and federal and
state laws and to turn such violators over to the proper authorities. The Chief
of Police shall serve all warrants, writs, executions and other process
properly directed and delivered to him or her.
(`85 Code, § 1-28(5))
§ 32.006 COMPENSATION.
   The Chief of Police and each police officer shall be paid such compensation
as the Town Board of Trustees may prescribe.
(`85 Code, § 1-28(6))
§ 32.007 PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   All personal property coming into the possession of any police
officer, which has been found, stolen or taken off the person, or out of the
possession of, any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with being a
criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto,
shall be delivered into the charge of the Chief of Police, who shall make a
permanent, written record of the property, including the date and circumstances
of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was taken (or the
place where it was found), the subsequent disposal thereof, the date of sale,
name and address of the purchaser and the amount for which it was sold.
   (B)   Any personal property (other than animals) which remains unclaimed and
in the possession of the Chief of Police, or the ownership of which is not
satisfactorily established to him or her for a period of 30 days, shall be sold
and the proceeds of the sale paid over to the Town Clerk, who shall issue his
or her receipt therefor and deposit the same to the credit of the General Fund
of the municipality, except for such personal property as in the opinion of the
Mayor can be more advantageously used by some department or office of the
municipal government. Ten days before a sale of such unclaimed property, the
Chief of Police shall have posted in a conspicuous place in the Town Hall
notice of the time, place and manner of such sale, including the general
description of the property to be sold. If, in the opinion of the Mayor, all or
any portion of the personal property may be more advantageously used in any
municipal department or office, he or she shall so instruct the Chief of Police
in writing and the Police Chief shall thereupon deliver the designated property
to that department or office of municipal government and make a permanent
record of its disposition.
   (C)   Any personal property found by a person other than a public official
or employee, which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if
not claimed or identified within 30 days shall, within ten additional days
thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him or her and a record
of such disposal made thereof, if the finder does not request return of the
property to him or her within such additional ten days, then the Chief of
Police shall sell the property as if it had been found by a public official or
employee or, on the instruction of the Mayor, deliver it to some department for
its use.
   (D)   If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof
takes and recovers possession of the same from the purchaser, the amount paid
therefore shall be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim being
submitted and approved by the Town Board of Trustees.
(`87 Code, § 1-28(7)-(10))
§ 32.008 ASSISTANCE TO AND FROM OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designated representative, is
authorized to direct that any regularly employed police officers of the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma, may provide law enforcement assistance to another
municipality in an emergency, provided that a written request from an official
representative of the other municipality has been received by the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma.
   (B)   While serving in said capacity, the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall
provide salaries, insurance and other regular benefits to these officers.
   (C)   The Mayor or Police Chief of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, is also
authorized to request law enforcement assistance from other municipalities, in
emergency situations. In such cases, the assisting officers of the other
municipalities shall have the same powers and duties as though employed by the
Town of Granite, Oklahoma; however, salaries, insurance and other benefits
shall not be paid by the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
   (D)   In all events, the police officers of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma,
shall return to their regular duties when directed to do so by the Granite
Police Chief or the Police Chief of the requesting municipality, whichever
direction occurs first.
   (E)   When the Granite Police Chief shall direct, the assisting police
officers of the other municipalities shall return to their own regularly-
scheduled duties in their own municipalities, and those assisting police
officers shall cease to have the powers and duties of police officers regularly
employed by the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 1-28(11)-(15))
§ 32.009 IDENTIFICATION CARD AND BADGE.
   The Chief of Police and all police officers under the employ of the Town of
Granite shall be identified by an identification card bearing the officer’s
photograph, signed by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk and by an official
police officer’s badge. The identification card and badge shall be provided to
the officer by the Town of Granite and shall be surrendered by the officer
whenever the individual ceases to serve as an official member of the Granite
Town Police Department.
(`85 Code, § 1-28(16))
§ 32.010 RESERVE OFFICERS.
   The Town Board of Trustees may authorize the appointment of reserve officers
who shall serve only on a part-time basis. Within one year from the date of
appointment, each reserve officer shall obtain a certificate attesting the
satisfactory completion of a basic reserve officer’s training course of a
minimum of 120 hours and as approved by the Council on Law Enforcement
Education and Training.
(`85 Code, § 1-28(17))
§ 32.011 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   The Chief of Police and each police officer shall perform all other duties
prescribed by law or ordinance.
(`85 Code, § 1-28(18))
DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 32.025 CREATED.
   There is established a Department of Emergency Management under the
executive branch of the municipal government, which shall consist of a Director
of Emergency Management and an Emergency Management Committee.
(`85 Code, § 1-38(1))
§ 32.026 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Department shall be to be prepared for and function in
the event of emergencies endangering the lives and property of the people of
the Town of Granite and to perform all functions necessary and incidental to
the protection of the lives, health and property of the citizens of the
community.
(`85 Code, § 1-38(2))
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
§ 32.040 ORGANIZATION.
   The Emergency Management Committee shall consist of the Mayor, who shall
serve as Committee Chairperson, and five members appointed by the Mayor, with
the approval of the Town Board of Trustees. The members shall serve at the
pleasure of the Town Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 1-39(1))
§ 32.041 VICE-CHAIRPERSON AND SECRETARY.
   The Emergency Management Committee shall select from its members a Vice-
Chairperson and a Secretary.
(`85 Code, § 1-39(2))
§ 32.042 MEETINGS.
   The Emergency Management Committee shall hold such meetings as are directed
by the Mayor or the Town Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 1-39(3))
§ 32.043 FUNCTION.
   The function of the Emergency Management Committee shall be to act in an
advisory capacity to, and as needed or requested by, the Mayor or the Town
Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 1-39(4))
MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.055 COMMISSION CREATED.
   There is created a Municipal Planning Commission of the Town of Granite,
Oklahoma, to be composed of at least five members. The Mayor, the Town Engineer
(local staff only) and the Town Clerk shall serve as ex-officio members of the
Commission, without voting powers.
(`85 Code, § 1-40(1))
§ 32.056 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   Upon the initial appointment of members of the Municipal Planning
Commission, the Mayor shall designate one member of the Municipal Planning
Commission to serve for a period of one year, two members to serve for a period
of two years and two members to serve for a period of three years. All
subsequent appointments of members shall be for a three year term and until
their successors are appointed and qualified.
(`85 Code, § 1-40(2))
§ 32.057 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Municipal Planning Commission shall be nominated for
appointment by the Mayor and confirmed by the Town Board of Trustees, shall be
appointed from residents of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma and shall serve
without salary.
(`85 Code, § 1-40(3))
§ 32.058 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   Members of the Municipal Planning Commission may be removed by the Town
Board of Trustees for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfunction in office or
other cause established by resolution of the Town Board; vacancies occurring
other than through the expiration of a term shall be filled only for the
unexpired term by the Town Board of Trustees.
(`87 Code, § 1-40(4))
§ 32.059 VICE-CHAIRPERSON, SECRETARY; OTHER OFFICES.
   Within five days of the appointment and qualification of the members of the
Municipal Planning Commission, the Commission shall meet and elect one of their
number as Chairperson, one as Vice- Chairperson and one as Secretary; in
addition, the Municipal Planning Commission may create and fill such other
offices as it may deem necessary. The term of all such offices shall be one
year, with eligibility for re-election.
(`85 Code, § 1-40(5))
§ 32.060 REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION.
   There is created a Regional Planning Commission for the Town of Granite,
Oklahoma. The Municipal Planning Commission for the Town shall also serve as
the Regional Planning Commission in order to avail itself of the powers of
state law. The Mayor of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, the Chairperson of the
Greer County Board of Commissioners and the Greer County Engineer shall be ex-
officio members of the Regional Planning Commission, to serve without voting
powers.
(`85 Code, § 1-40(6))
FAIR HOUSING BOARD
§ 32.090 BOARD CREATED; TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   There is created a Fair Housing Board of the Town of Granite, (hereafter
referred to as “Board”) composed of five members to be appointed by the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma, for terms of three years, excepting that of the members
first appointed under this section, two shall be appointed for a term of one
year, two shall be appointed for a term of two years and one shall be appointed
for a term of three years. Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, the Town
Board of Trustees shall serve as the Fair Housing Board.
(`85 Code, § 1-43(1))
Cross reference:
   Fair housing, see
Chapter 90
§ 32.091 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fair Housing Board to initiate, receive and
investigate complaints charging unlawful housing practice; seek conciliation of
such complaints, hold hearings, make findings of fact and publish its findings
of fact; and adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary within the
limits of this subchapter and carry out the purposes and provisions of this
subchapter.
(`85 Code, § 1-43(2))
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 32.105 BOARD CREATED.
   There is created a Library Board for the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 1-44(1))
§ 32.106 COMPOSITION; TERMS.
   The Library Board shall consist of five members.
(`85 Code, § 1-44(2))
§ 32.107 ADVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Library Board shall have advisory responsibilities for the management of
all libraries in the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 1-44(3))
§ 32.108 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board may make all necessary rules and regulations for its
operation and for the care and management of libraries supported by the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma, subject to approval and enactment by the Town Board of
Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 1-44(4))
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 32.120 BOARD COMPOSED OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Town Board of Trustees of Granite, Oklahoma, shall constitute a
Municipal Board of Health and shall be capable of performing all the functions
provided by state law.
(`85 Code, § 1-45(1))
Cross reference:
   Health and safety, see
Chapter 94
§ 32.121 SUPERVISION.
   The Municipal Board of Health shall be under the supervision of the Greer
County Department of Health and the Oklahoma State Department of Health.
(`85 Code, § 1-45(2))
§ 32.122 DUTIES.
   It shall be the general duty of the Municipal Board of Health to examine and
consider all measures necessary for the preservation of the public health of
residents of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, and to see that all ordinances and
regulations in relation thereto are observed.
(`85 Code, § 1-45(3))
§ 32.123 HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Municipal Board of Health may appoint a local Health Officer to carry
out its health programs and policies; the County Health Officer or his or her
authorized representative may perform the duties of a local Health Officer.
(`85 Code, § 1-45(4))
CEMETERY BOARD
§ 32.135 BOARD CREATED.
   There is created a Cemetery Board for the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 1-41)
Cross reference:
   Cemeteries, see
Chapter 91
CHAPTER 33: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Firefighter’s pensions
   
33.02   Social security
   
33.03   Municipal Retirement Fund
   
33.04   Ambulance service
   
33.05   Random drug testing for city employees
   
33.06   Telephone inspection fee
   
33.07   Law enforcement officers training reimbursement
   
33.08   Open records
§ 33.01 FIREFIGHTER’S PENSIONS.
   The Volunteer Fire Department of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall be
subject to all of the provisions of the Oklahoma State Firemen’s Relief and
Pension Act, all of the provisions of which are accepted by the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma, for the use and benefit of its Volunteer Fire Department,
which shall also be subject to all of the obligations thereunder.
(`85 Code, § 1-85)
§ 33.02 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Extension of benefits. It is declared to be the policy and purpose of
the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, to extend to the employees and officials thereof
not excluded by law or this section and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the system of Federal Old
Age and Survivors Insurance, as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act
and amendments thereto, including Pub. L. 734 -- 81st Congress. In pursuance of
such policy and for that purpose, the municipality shall take such action as
may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(`85 Code, § 1-90)
   (B)   Execution of agreements. The Mayor of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma,
is authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments
thereto, with the State Department of Public Welfare as agent or agency, to
secure coverage of employees and officials as provided in division (A) of this
section.
(`85 Code, § 1-91)
   (C)   Withholdings from salaries. Withholdings from salaries or wages of
employees and officials for the purpose provided in division (A) of this
section are authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be
required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations and shall be paid
over to the state or federal agency designated by such laws and regulations.
(`85 Code, § 1-92)
   (D)   Contributions by town. There shall be appropriated by the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma, from available funds, such amounts at such times as may be
required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations for employers’
contributions to the system of Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance. The
funds shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated by the laws
or regulations.
(`85 Code, § 1-93)
   (E)   Records and reports. The Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall keep such
records and make such reports, relative to the system of Federal Old-Age and
Survivors Insurance, as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
(`85 Code, § 1-94)
   (F)   Excluded officers and employees.  
      (1)   There is excluded from this section and the benefits established
hereunder any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position or
any employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
      (2)   There is excluded from this section and the benefits established
hereunder any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official, compensation for which is on a fee basis or any position,
employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations.
(`85 Code, § 1-95)
§ 33.03 MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   Due to changes in federal law, and in order to comply with certain
requirements of the Internal Revenue Service regarding the tax qualified status
of the Retirement Plan of the town, it is necessary to amend the definition of
compensation contained in the Plan.
   (B)   The Retirement Plan of Granite, as adopted by this section, is amended
only by adding the following language to the definition of compensation in the
Plan:
      COMPENSATION means wages for federal income tax withholding purposes, as
defined under Code § 3401(a), plus all other payments to an employee in the
course of the employer’s trade or business, for which the employer must furnish
the employee a written statement under Code §§ 6041,
6051 and 6052, but determined without regard to any rules that limit the
remuneration included in wages based on the nature or location of the
employment or services performed (such as the exception for agricultural labor
in Code § 3401(a)(2)). The employer in its joinder agreement may specify
modifications to the definition of COMPENSATION, for purposes of contribution
allocations under the Plan. For purposes of determining an employee’s
compensation, any election by such employee to reduce his regular cash
remuneration under Code §§ 125, 402(e)(3), 402(h), 403(b) or 132(f) shall be
disregarded.
      For Plan years beginning after December 31, 2008, (i) an individual
receiving a differential wage payment, as defined by Code § 3401(h)(2), shall
be treated as an employee of the employer making the payment, (ii) the
differential wage payment shall be treated as compensation, and (iii) the Plan
shall not be treated as failing to meet the requirements of any provision
described in Code § 414(u)(1)(C) by reason of any contribution or benefit which
is based on the differential wage payment.
      (1)   Limitations. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, for
Plan years commencing after December 31, 1988 and before January 1, 1994, the
annual compensation of each participant taken into account under the Plan for
any Plan year shall not exceed $200,000, as adjusted by the Secretary at the
same time and in the same manner as under § 415(d) of the Code except that the
dollar increase in effect on January 1 of any calendar year is effective for
Plan years beginning in such calendar year and the first adjustment to the
$200,000 limitation is effective January 1, 1990. For years beginning on or
after January 1, 1994, the annual compensation limit of each participant taken
into account for determining all benefits provided under the Plan for any
determination period shall not exceed $150,000, as adjusted for the cost-of-
living in accordance with § 401(a)(17)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code. The
cost-of-living adjustment in effect for a calendar year applies to any
determination period beginning in such calendar year. If a determination period
consists of fewer than 12 months, the OBRA ‘93 annual compensation limit will
be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months in
the determination period, and the denominator of which is 12.
      The annual compensation of each participant taken into account in
determining benefit accruals in any Plan year beginning after December 31,
2001, shall not exceed $200,000. ANNUAL COMPENSATION means compensation during
the Plan year or such other consecutive 12-month period over which the
compensation is otherwise determined under the Plan (the determination period).
For purposes of determining benefit accruals in a Plan year beginning after
December 31, 2001, compensation for any prior determination period shall be
$200,000. The $200,000 limit on annual compensation shall be adjusted for cost-
of-living increases in accordance with § 401(a)(17)(B) of the Code. The cost-
of-living adjustment in effect for a calendar year applies to annual
compensation for the determination period that begins with or within such
calendar year.
      If compensation for any prior determination period is taken into account
in determining an employee’s benefits accruing in the current Plan year, the
compensation for that prior determination period is subject to the applicable
annual compensation limit in effect for that prior determination period.
(Ord. 200, passed 6-24-96; Am. Ord. 213, passed 8-13-01; Am. Ord. 215, passed
4-14-03; Am. Ord. 225, passed 3-10-09; Am. Ord. 227, passed 10-14-14)
§ 33.04 AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   As of and from the date of April 1, 2002, the Town of Granite Ambulance
Service as heretofore provided by this section is declared inactive. The Mayor,
with the consent and approval of the majority of the members elected to the
Town Board of Trustees, shall have the power to reactivate the Town of Granite
Ambulance Service as they deem necessary for the benefit of the citizens of the
town.
   (A)   The Greer County Special Ambulance Service provides service to all
residents of the Town of Granite and the Granite School District and OSR. In
addition, it will provide emergency services to other areas when needed or
called upon by another service which has a mutual aid agreement with the Greer
County Special Ambulance Service.
   (B)   The Greer County Special Ambulance Service will provide non-emergency
service to the same area, providing it leaves one crew and vehicle in town for
an emergency situation.
(Ord. 204, passed 11-10-97; Am. Ord. 221, passed 4-11-05)
§ 33.05 RANDOM DRUG TESTING FOR CITY EMPLOYEES.
   All city employees of the town shall be subject to random testing for drugs
and controlled substances under the policy and procedure set forth and provided
in the Department of Transportation Anti-Drug Program and the mandate of the
Corporate Commission of the State of Oklahoma Anti-Drug Program for testing and
screening.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-11-91)
§ 33.06 TELEPHONE INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   Inspection fee. There is levied an annual inspection fee and service
charge upon every person, firm or corporation operating a telephone exchange or
rendering telephone service in the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, in an amount
equal to 2% of the gross revenues for each current year for exchange telephone
transmission service rendered wholly within the corporate limits of the town to
compensate the municipality for the expenses incurred and services rendered
incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision, police regulation
and control during construction and operation of lines and equipment of the
telephone company in said municipality. The fee shall be due and payable on or
before the first day of March of each year and shall be paid into, and expended
from, the General Fund of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 1-100)
   (B)   Fee in lieu of taxes. During continued substantial compliance with the
terms of this section by the owner of the telephone exchange (or company
rendering telephone service within the limits of the municipality), the charge
levied shall be and continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges,
excises, franchises, licenses, privileges and permit fees, taxes or
assessments, except ad valorem taxes; provided,
however, that it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate all existing
arrangements whereby said municipality is permitted to use underground
conduits, duct space or pole contracts of said company. (`85 Code, § 1-101)
   (C)   Failure to pay inspection fee. Should any person, firm or corporation
fail or refuse to pay such fee when levied, action may be taken against such
person, firm or corporation for the amount of such fees; all expenses for
collection of the same, including a reasonable attorney’s fee, shall be paid by
the party or parties that said action is taken against.
(`85 Code, § 1-102)
§ 33.07 LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS TRAINING REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   The Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall reimburse the “Law Enforcement
Officers’ Training Fund” of the Oklahoma State Treasury as required by 20 O.S.
§ 1313.1, Supplement 1982, amended 1983. The reimbursement shall be an amount
equal to $2 times the number of fines collected by the town for violations of
municipal offenses in the amount of $10 or more.
   (B)   The Town Clerk, or other individual designated by the Town Board of
Trustees, shall deposit this amount into the Law Enforcement Officers’ Training
Fund on a quarterly basis after January 1, 1984.
(`85 Code, § 1-53)
§ 33.08 OPEN RECORDS.
   (A)   Any request for a record which contains individual records of persons,
and the cost of copying, reproducing or certifying each individual record is
otherwise prescribed by state law, the cost may be assessed for each individual
record, or portion thereof requested as prescribed by state law. Otherwise, a
public body may charge a fee only for recovery of the reasonable, direct costs
of record copying, or mechanical reproduction. Notwithstanding any state or
local provision to the contrary, in no instance shall the record copying fee
exceed $.25 per page for records having the dimensions of eight and one- half
by 14 inches or smaller, or a maximum of $1 per copied page for a certified
copy. However, if the request (i) is solely for commercial purpose, or (ii)
would clearly cause excessive disruption of the essential functions of the
public body, then the public body may charge a reasonable fee to recover the
direct cost of record search and copying; however, publication in a newspaper
or broadcast by news media for news purposes shall not constitute a resale or
use of a record for trade or commercial purpose and charges for providing
copies of electronic data to the news media for a news purpose shall not exceed
the direct cost of making the copy. The fee charged by the Department of Public
Safety for a copy in a computerized format of a record of the Department shall
not exceed the direct cost of making the copy unless the fee for the record is
otherwise set by law.
   (B)   Any public body establishing fees under this section shall post a
written schedule of the fees at its principal office and with the county clerk.
   (C)   In no case shall a search fee be charged when the release of records
is in the public interest, including, but not limited to, release to the news
media, scholars, authors and taxpayers seeking to determine whether those
entrusted with the affairs of the government are honestly, faithfully, and
competently performing their duties as public servants.
   (D)   The fees shall not be used for the purpose of discouraging requests
for information or as obstacles to disclosure of requested information.
   (E)   The land description tract index of all recorded instruments
concerning real property required to be kept by the county clerk of any county
shall be available for inspection or copying in accordance with the provisions
of the Oklahoma Open Records Act; provided, however, the index shall not be
copied or mechanically reproduced for the purpose of sale of the information.
   (F)   A public body must provide prompt, reasonable access to its records
but may establish reasonable procedures which protect the integrity and
organization of its records and to prevent excessive disruptions of its
essential functions.
   (G)   A public body shall designate certain persons who are authorized to
release records of the public body for inspection, copying, or mechanical
reproduction. At least one person shall be available at all times to release
records during the regular business hours of the public body.
CHAPTER 34: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Application
   
34.02   Jurisdiction of Court
Organization and Procedure
   
34.15   Compensation of judges
   
34.16   No change of venue; disqualification of judge
   
34.17   Chief of Police
   
34.18   Attorney
   
34.19   Clerk of Court
   
34.20   Traffic Violations Bureau
   
34.21   Traffic violations
   
34.22   Style of prosecutions
   
34.23   Summons
   
34.24   Complaints against a corporation
   
34.25   Warrant of arrest
   
34.26   Bail; temporary bonds
   
34.27   Arraignment
   
34.28   Postponement of trial
   
34.29   Trial procedure
   
34.30   Contempt
   
34.31   Defendant to be present at trial; failure to appear
   
34.32   Judgement
   
34.33   Costs upon judgement of conviction; court costs
   
34.34   Enforcement of payment of fines or costs by imprisonment; persons
unable to pay
   
34.35   Suspension of sentence
   
34.36   Witness fees
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the
Municipal Court of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, as put into operation and
continued by resolution, duly passed and filed in accordance with state law on
and after March 25.
   (B)   To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of any other ordinance of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
(`85 Code, § 14-1)
§ 34.02 JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The Municipal Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and
determine all prosecutions wherein a violation of any provision of this code of
ordinances or of any other ordinance of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to said Court, in
accordance with applicable laws.
(`85 Code, § 14-2)
ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
§ 34.15 COMPENSATION OF JUDGES.
   The compensation of the Judge and the Alternate or Acting Judges of the
Municipal Court of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, shall be as determined by
resolution of the Town Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 14-11)
Cross reference:
   Municipal Judge, Alternate and Acting Judge, see §
31.04
§ 34.16 NO CHANGE OF VENUE; DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.
   (A)   In prosecutions before the Municipal Court, no change of venue shall
be allowed, but the Municipal Judge before whom the case is pending may certify
his or her disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from sitting,
under the terms, conditions and procedures provided by law for Courts of
Record.
   (B)   If the Municipal Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by
an Alternate Judge, appointed as provided in this code of ordinances.
(`85 Code, § 14-12)
§ 34.17 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All writs or process of the Municipal Court shall be directed to the Chief
of Police of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, who shall be the principal officer
of the Court.
(`85 Code, § 14-13)
§ 34.18 ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney, or his or her duly designated assistant, shall be
the prosecuting officer of the Municipal Court. He or she shall be authorized
to prosecute all alleged violations of the ordinances of the Town of Granite,
Oklahoma and to prosecute and resist appeals and proceedings in error and
review from the Court to any other courts of the State; he or she shall also be
authorized to represent the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, in all proceedings
arising out of matters of the Court.
(`85 Code, § 14-14)
§ 34.19 CLERK OF COURT.
   (A)   The Town Clerk, or a deputy designated by him or her, shall be the
Clerk of the Court. Duties of the Court Clerk shall include the following:
      (1)   He or she shall assist the Municipal Judge in recording the
proceedings of the Court and in preparing writs, process and other papers;
      (2)   He or she shall administer oaths required in proceedings before the
Court;
      (3)   He or she shall enter all pleadings, process and proceedings in the
dockets of the Court;
      (4)   He or she shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the
proceedings of the Court as the Municipal Judge shall direct;
      (5)   He or she shall receive and receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits
and sums of money payable to the Court;
      (6)   He or she shall pay to the Town Treasurer or the Town Clerk all
money so received by him or her (except such special deposits or fees as shall
be received to be disbursed by him or her for special purposes) to be placed in
the General Fund of the municipality or in such other fund and in such manner
as the Town Boards of Trustees may direct by motion or resolution.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Court shall give bond to the town in the sum of
$1,000.
(`85 Code, § 14-15)
§ 34.20 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   A Traffic Violations Bureau is established as a division of the office
of the Clerk of the Court, to be administered by the Clerk, or by subordinates
designated by him or her for that purpose.
   (B)   Persons who are cited for violation of any of the traffic ordinances
of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, other than a seconded traffic offense within
a 12-month period, a driver’s license offense or an offense punishable by a
fine of more than $50, may elect to pay a fine in the Traffic Violations
Bureau.
   (C)   The Court may adopt further rules to implement this section. Payment
of a fine under this section shall constitute a final determination of the case
against the defendant. If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this
section fails so to do, prosecution shall proceed under other provisions of
this chapter.
(`85 Code, § 14-16)
§ 34.21 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If a police officer observed facts which he or she believes constitute
a violation of the traffic ordinances of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, by a
resident thereof, in lieu of arresting such person, he or she may take his or
her name, address, operator’s license number, the license number of the motor
vehicle involved and any other pertinent information and may issue to him or
her, in writing in a form prescribed by the Mayor (or his or her duly
designated delegate), a traffic citation embracing the above information,
stating the traffic violation alleged to have occurred and notifying him or her
to answer to the charge against him or her in the Municipal Court at a time
(not later than five days or the next Municipal Court date) specified in the
citation. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator (on the citation) to answer as specified, shall release the person
from custody. If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer as
prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident of the
town, the police officer shall take him or her into custody under arrest. The
arrested person shall either be taken immediately before the Municipal Judge
for further proceedings according to law or shall have bail fixed for his or
her release in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing
bail, and upon giving his or her written promise to appear upon a day certain,
as provided in division (A) of this section, he or she shall be released from
custody.
   (C)   If the alleged offense constitutes violation of any parking ordinance
and the operator is not present, the police officer shall place on the vehicle,
at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the operator, an
appropriate citation, with such variations as the circumstances require. The
operator of the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him or her personally under other
provisions of this section.
(`85 Code, § 14-17)
§ 34.22 STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS.
   All prosecutions for violation of this code of ordinances or other
ordinances of the municipality shall be styled “The Town of Granite, Oklahoma,
Plaintiff, vs. (naming defendant or defendants).” Except as otherwise provided
with respect to traffic violations, prosecutions shall be initiated by the
filing of a written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making the
complaint and setting forth concisely the offense charged.
(`85 Code, § 14-18)
§ 34.23 SUMMONS.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging a violation of this code of
ordinances or other ordinances of the town, the Municipal Judge, unless he or
she determined to issue a warrant of arrest, unless the defendant previously
has been issued a citation, or unless he or she has been arrested and given
bond for his or her appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person
charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence (if known),
stating the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her
notice to answer the charge in the Municipal Court on a day certain, five days
hence (Sundays and holidays excepted), or the next Municipal Court date after
the summons is served upon him or her, containing a provision for the official
return of the summons is served upon him or her, containing a provision for the
official return of the summons and including such other pertinent information
as may be necessary.
   (B)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he or she fails to appear and answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as provided
by this chapter.
(`85 Code, § 14-19)
§ 34.24 COMPLAINTS AGAINST A CORPORATION.
   (A)   Upon complaint against a corporation being filed with the Municipal
Judge of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, the Judge shall issue a summons in a
form as outlined in this chapter, signed by him or her with his or her title of
office, requiring the corporation to appear before him or her at a specific
time and place to answer the complaint.
   (B)   The summons must be served at least two days before the day of
appearance fixed therein by delivering a copy thereof and showing the original
to the president, secretary, cashier or managing agent or director of the
corporation.
   (C)   At the time appointed in the summons, the Municipal Judge shall try
the complaints in the same manner as in the case of any other person brought
before him or her.
   (D)   When a fine is imposed upon conviction, it may be collected by the
Municipal Judge making a transcript of his or her proceedings thereof, together
with the judgment of the Court duly certified and filed with the Clerk of the
District Court, and execution shall be issued thereon and served by the Sheriff
of the County as in cases of execution generally.
(`85 Code, § 14-20)
§ 34.25 WARRANT OF ARREST.
   (A)   Except as may otherwise be provided in this code of ordinances, upon
the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the Town Attorney or
by the Municipal Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest in
substantially the following form:
      The Town of Granite, Oklahoma, to the Chief of Police of the Municipal
Court of Granite,     Oklahoma:
         Complaint upon oath having this day been made by              that the
offense of
                           has been committed and accusing thereof, you are
commanded
         therefore forthwith to arrest the above named (Defendant or
Defendants) and bring
         (him, her, them) before me at my office at the Granite, Oklahoma
Municipal Court
         Room.
         Witness my hand this                 day of              , 20        
.
                                       Judge of the Municipal Court of the
                                       Town of Granite, Oklahoma
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to execute such warrant as
promptly as possible, either:
      (1)   Personally;
      (2)   Through a duly constituted member of the police force of the town;
or
      (3)   Through any other person lawfully authorized to act.
(`85 Code, § 14-21)
§ 34.26 BAIL; TEMPORARY BONDS.
   (A)   Whenever a resident of the town is arrested for a violation of any
ordinance by a police officer of the town, the officer shall immediately
release such person if he or she acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing
it, unless it reasonably appears to the officer that the person may cause
injury to himself, herself or others, or damage to property, if released, or if
it reasonably appears that the person will not appear in response to the
citation (if such person fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant
shall be issued for his or her arrest and his or her appearance in Court shall
be complied).
   (B)   Whenever a resident of the town is arrested by a police officer of the
town of the violation of any ordinance and is not released by being permitted
to sign a citation as provided in division (A) of this section, the resident
shall be permitted to bail either before or after arraignment or released on
his or her own recognizance.
   (C)   Whenever a nonresident of the town is arrested by a police officer of
the town for a violation other than a traffic violation, the defendant shall be
eligible to be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment.
   (D)   The town may require any person who is arrested by a police officer of
the town for a municipal traffic violation to comply with statutory procedures
for state traffic violations, with respect to the release of the arrested
person. The following methods of posting bail shall apply:
      (1)   Posting cash bail, in exchange for a receipt therefore, issued by
the arresting officer;
      (2)   Depositing with the arresting officer a “guaranteed arrest bond
certificate;” or
      (3)   Depositing with the arresting officer a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, in exchange for a receipt therefor, issued by the arresting
officer, which shall be recognized as an operator’s license and shall authorize
the person’s license and shall authorize the person’s operation of a motor
vehicle to the date of his or her hearing, provided that said date shall not
exceed 20 days from the date of arrest.
   (E)   The amount and any conditions of bail granted under this section shall
be determined by the Municipal Judge, who shall prescribe rules for the receipt
of bail and for release by personal recognizance. In the event of arrests at
night, other emergencies or when the Municipal Judge is not available, the
Chief of Police (or his or her designated representative) shall be authorized
by the Municipal Judge, under such conditions as shall be proscribed by the
Judge, to accept a temporary cash bond in a sufficient amount to secure the
appearance of the accused, but in no event shall the cash bond be more than the
allowable maximum fine for each offense charged. The Chief of Police (or his or
her designated representative) is authorized, subject to such conditions as
shall be prescribed by the Municipal Judge, to release a resident of the town,
on his or her own recognizance.
(`85 Code, § 14-22)
§ 34.27 ARRAIGNMENT.
   Upon making his or her appearance before the Municipal Court, the defendant
shall be arraigned. The Municipal Judge or the Town Attorney shall read the
complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights, of
the consequences of conviction and ask him or her whether he or she pleads
guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the Court may proceed to
judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If
the plea is not guilty, the Court may proceed to try the case or may set it for
hearing at a later date.
(`85 Code, § 14-23)
§ 34.28 POSTPONEMENT OF TRIAL.
   Before a trial commences in the Municipal Court, either party, upon good
cause shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
(`85 Code, § 14-24)
§ 34.29 TRIAL PROCEDURE.
   In all trials in the Municipal Court as to matters not covered in this
chapter, by the statutes relating to the Municipal Criminal Courts or by rules
duly promulgated by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the District Courts shall apply to the extent that
they can be made effective.
(`85 Code, § 14-25)
§ 34.30 CONTEMPT.
   (A)   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the Municipal
Judge or by the Municipal Court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or
imprison for contempt committed as to him or her while holding Court, or
committed against process issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the
same extent as the District Court of this state.
   (B)   It shall be an offense to be in contempt, directly or indirectly, of
the Municipal Court of the town and of its orders. Failure to appear before the
Municipal Court on the date and at the time noted on a traffic citation, after
signing a promise to appear on the face of the traffic citation, shall be
considered the offense of indirect contempt of the Municipal Court of the town.
(`85 Code, § 14-26)
§ 34.31 DEFENDANT TO BE PRESENT AT TRIAL; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   The defendant must be present in person at the trial of his or her
case in the Municipal Court.
   (B)   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according
to the terms or conditions of his or her bond, either for hearing, arraignment,
trial or judgement, or upon any other occasion when his or her presence in
court or before the magistrate may be lawfully required; the Municipal Judge
may direct that fact to be entered upon the Court minutes, thereby declaring
the bond to be forfeited. Without advancing Court costs, the Judge shall then
cause the forfeiture to be certified to the District Court of the county
wherein the situs of government is situated, where it shall be entered upon the
judgement docket and shall have the full force and effect of a District Court
Judgement Docket, the District Court Clerk shall proceed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of state statutes.
(`85 Code, § 14-27)
§ 34.32 JUDGEMENT.
   (A)   At the close of a trial in the Municipal Court, judgment must be
rendered by the Municipal Judge, who shall cause it to be entered in his or her
docket.
   (B)   If the judgment of the Municipal Court is of acquittal and the
defendant is not to be detained for any other legal cause, he or she must be
discharged at once.
   (C)   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the
Municipal Court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the
limits prescribed by this code of ordinances or other applicable ordinance and
imposing sentence accordingly.
(`85 Code, § 14-28)
§ 34.33 COSTS UPON JUDGEMENT OF CONVICTION; COURT COSTS.
   If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax the
costs to the defendant, in a sum not to exceed $10, plus the fees and mileage
of jurors and witnesses. All funds collected shall be deposited in the
appropriate fund.
(`85 Code, § 14-29)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation on maximum costs, see 11 O.S. § 27-126
§ 34.34 ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT OF FINES OR COSTS BY IMPRISONMENT; PERSONS
UNABLE TO PAY.
   (A)   If a defendant who is financially able refuses or neglects to pay a
fine or costs, or both, payment may be enforced by imprisonment, until the same
shall be satisfied at the rate of $25 per day.
   (B)   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the
Municipal Judge of the town may direct the total amount due to be entered upon
the Court minutes and to be certified to the District Court of the county
wherein the situs of government is situated, where it shall be entered upon the
District Court Judgment Docket and shall have the full force and effect of a
District Court Judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies shall be available for
the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other judgment
creditor.
(`85 Code, § 14-30)
§ 34.35 SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE.
   After conviction and sentence of a defendant in the Municipal Court of the
town, the Municipal Judge may suspend sentence in accordance with the
provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by,
applicable provisions of O.S. Title 11, as amended.
(`85 Code, § 14-31)
§ 34.36 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Witnesses in any proceeding in the Municipal Court, other than police
officers or peace officers, shall be entitled to $2 for each day of attendance,
plus $.10 for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in going to and
returning from the place of attendance if their residence is more than five
miles outside the corporate limits of the town. No witness shall receive fees
or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or the safe
travel.
   (B)   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit, with the Clerk
of the Court, a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of
attendance for each witness to be summoned; such deposit shall not be required
from an indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
      (1)   The names of no more than three witnesses;
      (2)   That the defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable to
provide fees and mileage allowed by law;
      (3)   That the testimony of such witnesses is material; and
      (4)   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her
proper defense.
   (C)   The fees of witnesses in such cases shall be paid by the Town of
Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 14-32)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If the Judge of the Municipal Court of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma,
is a licensed attorney, the court may impose a fine not to exceed $1,000 plus
costs; provided, furthermore, that the fine may not exceed the maximum as
specified for the specific offense, as set forth in this code of ordinances or
other ordinances now or in the future in effect.
   (B)   If the Judge of the Municipal Court is not a licensed attorney, the
trial shall be to the court, and the court may not impose a fine of more than
$50 and costs and may not order the defendant imprisoned, except for the
nonpayment of fines or costs, or both.
(`85 Code, § 14-40)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCES AND TAXATION; PURCHASING
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Purchasing and sales procedures
   
35.02   Competitive bidding
   
35.03   Insurance
   
35.04   Excise tax
Sales Tax
   
35.15   Citation
   
35.16   Definitions
   
35.17   Tax Collector defined
   
35.18   Classification of taxpayers
   
35.19   Subsisting state permits
   
35.20   Purpose of revenues
   
35.21   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
35.22   Exemptions
   
35.23   Tax due; payment
   
35.24   Payment of tax; brackets
   
35.25   Tax constitutes debt
   
35.26   Vendor’s duty to collect tax
   
35.27   Returns and remittances
   
35.28   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
35.29   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
35.30   Erroneous payment; claim for refund
   
35.31   Fraudulent returns
   
35.32   Records confidential
   
35.33   Amendments
   
35.34   Provisions cumulative
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 PURCHASING AND SALES PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall contract for and purchase, or issue
purchase authorizations for, all supplies, materials and equipment for the
operation of the municipal government. Before the purchase of or contract for
any supplies, materials or equipment, or the sale of any surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials or equipment, ample opportunity for competitive bidding,
under such regulations and with such exceptions as the Town Board may
prescribe, shall be given. The Town Board of Trustees shall not except a
particular contract, purchase or sale from the requirement of competitive
bidding.
   (B)   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES, for the purposes of this chapter, shall mean
services performed for the town by persons not in the employ of the town and
may include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in connection
with such services under express or implied contract. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES
shall include travel, freight, express, parcel post, postage, telephone,
telegraph, utilities, rents, printing and binding, repairs, alterations and
maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets, bridges and other physical
facilities of the town.
   (C)   Subject to the provisions of this section, surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials or equipment belonging to the town may be sold by the Town
Board of Trustees.
   (D)   No sale shall be made under this section until the Town Board of
Trustees has declared the supplies, materials or equipment involved to be
surplus or obsolete.
   (E)   Except as may otherwise be provided, the Town Board of Trustees shall
advertise any sale under this section in a newspaper of general circulation in
the town or county or in such other manner as deemed necessary to adequately
reach prospective buyers to give them an opportunity to make bids. All bids
shall be sealed and opened in public at a designated time and place, except
when the sale is by auction. The Town Board of Trustees may repeatedly reject
all bids and advertise again. The Town Board of Trustees shall sell such
supplies, materials and equipment to the highest responsible bidder and, if
necessary, shall cast lots in case of a tie to determine to whom to sell.
   (F)   The Town Board of Trustees may sell surplus or obsolete supplies,
materials or equipment, the total value of which does not exceed $100 in a
single transaction, without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding.
   (G)   The Utility Superintendent or designated city employees, subject to
any regulations which the Town Board of Trustees may prescribe, shall contract
for and purchase, or issue purchase authorization for, all supplies, materials
and equipment for the offices, departments and agencies of the municipal
government. Every such contract or purchase exceeding $2,000 shall require the
prior approval of the
Town Board of Trustees. The Mayor may also transfer to or between offices,
departments and agencies, or sell surplus or obsolete supplies, materials and
equipment, subject to such regulations as the Town Board of Trustees may
prescribe.
(`85 Code, § 1-50)
§ 35.02 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, before
the Town Board of Trustees makes any purchase of or contract for supplies,
materials, equipment or contractual services, they shall submit to at least
three persons, firms or corporations dealing in and able to supply the same, or
to a smaller number if there are not three dealing in and able to supply the
same, a request for quotation or invitation to bid and specifications to give
them opportunity to bid. As an alternative, the Town Board may publish notice
of the proposed purchase in a newspaper of general circulation within the town
or county. The Town Board of Trustees shall favor a person, firm or corporation
in the town when this can be done without additional cost to the town, but they
shall submit requests for quotation to those outside the town when necessary to
secure bids or to create competitive conditions or when they think that they
can make a saving for the town. All bids shall be sealed and opened in public
at a designated time and place. The Town Board of Trustees may repeatedly
reject all bids and may again submit to the same or other persons, firms or
corporations the request for quotations or invitation to bid or again publish
notice of the proposed purchase. The Town Board of Trustees shall purchase from
the bidder whose bid is most advantageous to the town, considering price,
quality, date of delivery and the like; in the event of a tie, the Town Board
may cast lots to determine from whom to make a purchase or may divide the
purchase among those tying, always accepting the bid or bids most advantageous
to the town.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may purchase or authorize the purchase of
the following without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
      (1)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services, the cost of
which does not exceed the applicable dollar amount established by current state
law in a single transaction;
      (2)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer or which has a uniform price wherever bought;
      (3)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers (including war surplus);
      (4)   Contractual services (gas, electricity, telephone service and the
like) purchased from a public utility corporation at a price or rate determined
by the State Corporation Commission or other government authority; or
      (5)   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
legal, architectural and medical services.
(`85 Code, § 1-51)
§ 35.03 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees may insure municipal property, as
authorized by Oklahoma Statutes. Any money received as a result of destruction,
damages or loss of such insured property shall be accounted for and used as
provided by the statutes.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may purchase insurance to pay damages to
persons sustaining injuries or damages to property as a result of negligent
operation of motor vehicles or motorized equipment of the Town of Granite,
Oklahoma.
   (C)   The Town Board of Trustees is directed to procure and maintain
liability insurance as follows:
      (1)   Comprehensive general liability, including bodily injury and
property damage for all functions, facilities and services of the municipality,
$1,000,000 per occurrence;
      (2)   Errors and omissions (public official liability for wrongful acts),
$1,000,000;
      (3)   Personal injury and police professional liability (including
assault and battery), civil rights and other risks, $1,000,000.
(`85 Code, § 1-52)
§ 35.04 EXCISE TAX.
   (A)   Excise tax on storage, use or other consumption of tangible, personal
property levied. There is levied and there shall be paid by every person
storing, using or otherwise consuming within the town tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into this town an excise tax on the storage, use
or other consuming within the town of such property at the rate of 1% of the
purchase price of such property, and such tax shall be in addition to the 2%
excise tax currently levied by the town on such purchases. The tax shall be
paid by every person storing, using or otherwise consuming within the town,
tangible personal property purchased or brought into the town. The additional
tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the
property within the town and shall be assessed to only property purchased
outside Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied
against tangible, personal property intended solely for use outside the town,
but which is stored in the town pending shipment outside the town or which is
temporarily retained in the town for the purpose of fabrication, repair,
testing, alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable for
payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or
municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that
the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the
taxes imposed by the town had been levied on the sale of such goods or
services.
   (B)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply:
      (1)   With respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal
property brought into the town by a nonresident individual visiting in this
town for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the town;
      (2)   With respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased
for resale before being used;
      (3)   With respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal
property on which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the
Oklahoma Use Tax Code and the town use tax ordinance, has been paid by the
person using such tangible, personal property in the town, whether such tax was
levied under the laws of Oklahoma or some other state or city of the United
States. If any article of tangible, personal property has already been
subjected to a tax by Oklahoma or any other state or city in respect to its
sale or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma Use
Tax Code and the town use tax ordinance measured by the difference only between
the rate provided by both the Oklahoma Use Tax Code and the town use tax
ordinance, and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use was
computed; provided, that no credit shall be given for taxes paid in another
state or city, if that state or city does not grant like credit for taxes paid
in Oklahoma and the town;
      (4)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used
by persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the town, and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons to the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the town; provided, this exemption
shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated into, and
is directly used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to taxation
under the sales tax code of the town. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean
those establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing
operations and generally recognized as such;
      (5)   With respect to the use of tangible, personal property now
specifically exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of the town;
      (6)   With respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal
property brought into the town by an individual with intent to become a
resident of the town where such personal property is for such individual’s
personal use or enjoyment;
      (7)   With respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal
property used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; and
      (8)   With respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought
into this town for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
   (C)   Time when due; returns; payment. The tax levied by this section is due
and payable at the time and in the manner and form prescribed for payment of
the state use tax under the Use Tax Code of the State of Oklahoma.
   (D)   Tax constitutes debt. Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder
shall at all times constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against
the claims of unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other
debt.
   (E)   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor. Every retailer or vendor
maintaining places of business both within and without the State of Oklahoma,
and making sales of tangible, personal property from a place of business
outside this state for use in this town shall at the time of making such sales
collect the use tax levied by this section from the purchaser and give to the
purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by the Oklahoma
Tax Commission (the “Tax Commission”), if the Tax Commission shall, by
regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the
Tax Commission the name and address of all his or her agents operating in this
town and location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or
other places of business in this town.
   (F)   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of
business within state or both within and without state; permits. The Tax
Commission may in its discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of
the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of
business within this state but who makes sales of tangible, personal property
for us in this town and by the out-of-state place of business of any retailer
or vendor maintaining places of business both within and without Oklahoma and
making sales of tangible, personal property at such out-of-state place of
business for use in this town. Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without
charge, a permit to collect such taxes, by the Tax Commission in such manner
and subject to such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so
authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the tax
upon all tangible, personal property sold to his knowledge for use within this
town. Such authority and permit may be canceled when at any time the Tax
Commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected from the
person using such property in this town; provided, however, that in all
instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the purchaser
within this town by the retailer or vendor in such retailer’s or vendor’s
vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales or
transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable town sales tax at the
point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and reported under taxpayer’s
sales tax permit number accordingly.
   (G)   Revoking permits. Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a
place of business in this state, or both within and without this state, and
authorized to collect the tax herein levied, fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this section or the Oklahoma Use Tax Code or any order, rules or
regulations of the Tax Commission, the Tax Commission may, upon notice and
hearing as provided for in 68 O.S. § 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit,
if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor
is a corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel said corporation’s license to do business in
this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has
complied with the obligations under this section, the Oklahoma Use Tax Code, or
any order, rules or regulations of the Tax Commission.
   (H)   Remunerative deductions allowed vendors or retailers of other states.
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma Use Tax Code; and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
   (I)   Interest and penalties; delinquency. 68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted
and made a part of this section, and interest and penalties at the rates and in
the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied
and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax
levied by this section; provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer
or vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time
and manner required by this section shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In
addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five days, the retailer
or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount allowed under this
section.
   (J)   Waiver of interest and penalties. The interest and penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay
the town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for said waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the
state use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220, and to accomplish the purposes of this
section, the applicable provisions of said § 220 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this section.
   (K)   Erroneous payments; claim for refund. Refund of erroneous payment of
the town use tax herein levied may be made to any taxpayer making such
erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure, and under the same
limitations of time, as provided for administration of the state use tax as set
forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the purpose of this section, the
applicable provisions of § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this section.
   (L)   Fraudulent returns. In addition to all civil penalties provided by
this section, the willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports
and remittances herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent
report for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion
thereof rightfully due under this section shall be an offense and upon
conviction thereof, the offending taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not
more than $100. Each day of noncompliance with this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (M)   Records confidential. The confidential and privileged nature of the
records and files concerning the administration of the town use tax is
legislatively recognized and declared, and to protect the same, the provisions
of 68 O.S. § 205, of the Oklahoma Use Tax Code, and each subsection thereof, is
hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to
administration of the town use tax as is herein set forth in full.
   (N)   Provisions cumulative. The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and
in addition to any and all other taxing provisions of the town ordinances.
   (O)   Provisions severable. The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be
severable, and if any section, paragraph, sentence or clause of this section is
for any reason held invalid or inoperative by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect any other section, paragraph,
sentence, or clause hereof.
   (P)   Definitions. The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in
the Oklahoma Use Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this section. In addition thereto, the following words and terms
shall be defined as follows:
      TOWN. The Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
      TRANSACTION. Sale.
   (Q)   Tax Collector defined. The term TAX COLLECTOR as used herein means the
department of the town government or the official agency of the state, duly
designated according to law or contract authorized by law, to administer the
collection of the tax herein levied.
   (R)   Classification of taxpayers. For the purpose of this section, the
classification of taxpayers hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for
purposes of the Oklahoma Use Tax Code.
   (S)   Subsisting state permits. All valid and subsisting permits to do
business issued by the Tax Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Use Tax Code are
for the purpose of this section hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu
of any requirement for any additional town permit for the same purposes.
   (T)   Purposes of revenues. It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this
section to provide revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal
government of the town, and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be
expended by the governing body of the town for any purpose for which funds may
be lawfully expended as authorized.
(Ord. 191, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 223, passed 9-11-06)
SALES TAX
§ 35.15 CITATION.
   This subchapter constitutes, shall be known as and may be cited as the “Town
of Granite, Oklahoma, Sales Tax Ordinance.”
(`85 Code, § 1-60)
§ 35.16 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma Sales
Tax Code, 68 O.S. 1350 et seq., as amended from time to time, are adopted by
reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(`87 Code, § 1-61) (Am. Ord. 219, passed 3-8-04)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see 68 O.S. §§ 1352 et seq., as amended
§ 35.17 TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED.
   The term TAX COLLECTOR as used herein means the department of the municipal
government or the official agency of the state duly designated according to law
or contract authorized by law to administer the collection of the tax herein
levied.
(`85 Code, § 1-62)
§ 35.18 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state statutes for purposes of the Oklahoma
Sales Tax Code.
(`85 Code, § 1-63)
§ 35.19 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
subchapter, ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional municipal permit for the same purpose.
(`85 Code, § 1-64)
§ 35.20 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues for the
support of the functions of the municipal government of the town. It is hereby
declared that the additional 1% sales tax levied by Ord. No. 219 shall be in
addition to the other sales tax levied by the original sales tax ordinance
(Ord. No. 146) as may be hereafter amended from time to time, and the proceeds
of such sales tax, or proceeds of borrowings by the town or a public trust of
which the town is beneficiary payable from the sales tax, shall be expended on
the Granite Fire Department and the Granite Police Department, one-half each,
as determined by the Town Board. Although no excess funds are anticipated, if
any exist, the same shall be used for general operation of the town.
(`85 Code, § 1-66) (Am. Ord. 219, passed 3-8-04)
§ 35.21 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   (A)   There is levied an excise tax of 2% upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Sales Tax Law of Oklahoma (68
O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., as amended).
   (B)   In addition, there is levied an excise tax of 1% upon the gross
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, as
set out therein. There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied
under this division (B) the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, as set out therein.
(`85 Code, § 1-67) (Am. Ord. 219, passed 3-8-04)
§ 35.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   There is specifically exempted from the tax levied by this subchapter
the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the Sales Tax Law of
Oklahoma (68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., as amended).
(`85 Code, § 1-68)
   (B)   Also, there is specifically exempted from the tax herein levied the
transfer of tangible personal property exempted from the Oklahoma Sales Tax Law
(68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., as amended).
(`85 Code, § 1-69)
§ 35.23 TAX DUE; PAYMENT.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the Sales
Tax Law of the State of Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 1-70)
§ 35.24 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time
and in the manner and form provided for payment of the state sales tax under
the Sales Tax Law of Oklahoma.
   (B)   The bracket system for the collection of the 9.5% municipal sales tax
by the Tax Collector shall be as the same as hereafter adopted by the agreement
of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, and the Tax Collector in the collection of
both the 3% municipal sales tax, the 4% state sales tax and 2% county sales
tax.
(`85 Code, § 1-71)
§ 35.25 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(`85 Code, § 1-72)
§ 35.26 VENDOR’S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this town to
collect from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this
subchapter or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the
average equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder or the average equivalent
thereof to the sales price or charge and, when added, such tax shall constitute
a part of such price or charge, shall be debt from the consumer or user to the
vendor until paid and shall be recoverable by law in the same manner as other
debts.
   (C)   A vendor, as defined herein, who willfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
subchapter or willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply
with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly
or indirectly and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied
or makes in any form of advertising (verbally or otherwise) any statement which
infers that he or she is absorbing the tax or paying the tax or in any manner
whatsoever shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $50, plus costs.
(`85 Code, § 1-73)
§ 35.27 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Sales Tax Code;
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by the Code for collection of state sales taxes.
(`85 Code, § 1-74)
§ 35.28 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217, as amended, is adopted and made a part of this subchapter and
interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
levied and shall be applicable in cases of
delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this subchapter. The
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the report and
remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this subchapter shall
cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for
a period of five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his or her claim to any
discount allowed under this subchapter.
(`85 Code, § 1-75)
§ 35.29 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest, penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer’s failure to pay the municipal tax herein levied may be waived or
remitted in the same manner provided for said waiver or remittance as applied
in the administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220; to
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. §
220 are adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(`85 Code, § 1-76)
§ 35.30 ERRONEOUS PAYMENT; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the municipal sales tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure and under the same limitations of time as provided for administration
of the state sales tax, as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the
purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 227 are
adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(`85 Code, § 1-77)
§ 35.31 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this subchapter, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax, or portion thereof, rightfully due
under this subchapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the
offending taxpayer shall be subject to a fine or not more than $50, plus costs.
(`85 Code, § 1-78)
§ 35.32 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipal sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, as amended,
of the State Sales Tax Code and each subsection thereof is adopted by reference
and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the municipal
sales tax as if set forth herein in full.
(`85 Code, § 1-79)
§ 35.33 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, by their approval of this
chapter at the election hereinbefore provided, have authorized the Town Board
of Trustees, by ordinances duly enacted, to make such administrative and
technical changes or additions in the method and manner of administration and
enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or proper for efficiency and
fairness, provided that the rate of the tax herein provided shall not be
changed without approval of the qualified electors of the municipality, as
provided by law.
(`85 Code, § 1-80)
§ 35.34 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of municipal ordinances.
(`85 Code, § 1-81)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
      
54.   GAS
      
55.   ELECTRICITY
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Municipal utility systems
   
50.02   Use of municipal utility systems
   
50.03   Application for utility services
   
50.04   Deposit for municipal utility services
   
50.05   One premises to a meter
   
50.06   Turning on utilities
   
50.07   Bills due; delinquency
   
50.08   Utilities may be cut off
   
50.09   Turning utilities on again
   
50.10   Utilities to be turned back on only by town authority
   
50.11   No service connection until bills have been paid
   
50.12   Customers to keep service pipes in good repair
   
50.13   Town not responsible for utility interruption or stoppage
   
50.14   Town personnel may inspect private premises
   
50.15   Interference with fire hydrants; damage of utility system
   
50.16   Utility deposits
   
50.17   Connection and tap fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Water, gas, electric, solid waste and sewer services are provided to
residents of the town through the Granite Public Works Authority, a municipal
trust of the town.
   (B)   Any reference to the Town Clerk, in provisions related to water, gas,
electric, solid waste and sewer services, shall mean the Public Works Authority
Secretary.
(`85 Code, § 20-1)
§ 50.02 USE OF MUNICIPAL UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   Every resident within the corporate limits of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma
and every commercial or industrial establishment shall utilize the municipal
utility systems of the town, unless it is impossible to do so, and pay fees as
established by the Board of Trustees of Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 20-2)
§ 50.03 APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
   Any person desiring to secure one or more utility connections from the
municipal systems shall make an application therefor to the Town Clerk on an
application form to be provided by the Clerk. The applicant shall give such
reasonable information as the Town Clerk may request and shall state in the
application that he or she will abide by all ordinances, rules and regulations
governing the utilities and services of the town.
(`85 Code, § 20-3)
§ 50.04 DEPOSIT FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICES.
   An applicant for services shall make a deposit, the amount of which shall be
determined by resolution. An applicant shall not be granted such service until
he or she has paid to the Town Clerk such deposit, which shall serve as a
guarantee for the payment of charges for utilities, services and other amounts
owed to the town in connection with such municipal services. When a customer’s
service is discontinued, the deposit or any part of the amount deposited which
remains after all such charges and amounts due the town have been satisfied,
shall be returned to the customer.
(`85 Code, § 20-4)
§ 50.05 ONE PREMISES TO A METER.
   Not more than one premises may be connected to any one water meter or sewer
tap without special arrangements being made with the town. No customer shall
make or permit to be made any subsidiary connection of another’s premises with
his or her water or sewer service.
(`85 Code, § 20-5)
§ 50.06 TURNING ON UTILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn the utility onto any premises
from any municipal system without written permission of the Town Clerk.
Utilities shall not be turned on until the plumbing or electric wiring, as the
case may be, has been inspected and approved by the Utility Superintendent or
his or her designated representative as provided by ordinance and until any and
all deposits and charges have been paid. The Town Clerk will see that the
utility is turned on when all requirements for service have been complied with.
(`85 Code, § 20-6) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 BILLS DUE; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All bills for utility services shall be due and payable by the tenth
day of the month following the services rendered. After the tenth day of the
month, unpaid bills shall be considered delinquent and a 10% penalty shall be
added.
   (B)   As soon as practical after the tenth, but before the fifteenth, town
officials shall notify all past due accounts. This notice shall state the total
amount of the unpaid bills, plus any penalty added, and request payment before
the twentieth to avoid cut-off on that date.
(`85 Code, § 20-7) (Am. Ord. 203, passed 11-10-97; Am. Ord. 217, passed 6-23-
03)
§ 50.08 UTILITIES MAY BE CUT OFF.
   (A)   Utilities may be cut off and service discontinued for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Violation of any ordinance provision relating to a municipal
utility or service system or violation of any ordinance provision or any
provision of a code adopted by reference relating to water and sanitary
plumbing or electrical installations;
      (2)   Any act or omission in regard to the water system, gas system,
electric system, solid waste or sanitary sewer system, the use of water or the
disposal of liquid wastes, which jeopardizes the public health or safety,
creates a public nuisance or interferes with the rights of others; or
      (3)   Failure to pay a utility bill or other proper charge made in
connection with a municipal utility system by the time specified by ordinance.
   (B)   A particular service may be cut off for any act or omission in regard
to the abuse of another system or service, which jeopardizes the public health
or safety, creates a public nuisance or interferes with the rights of others.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to cut off or reduce any utility or
service to any customer when necessary to conserve water, protect life or
property or repair or improve the system.
   (D)   In case of emergency caused by a water shortage in the municipal water
system, it shall be the duty of the Town Board of Trustees to immediately give
notice by publication to the system’s water consumers not to use water obtained
from the system for any purpose other than for strictly domestic use and such
other use as the Town Board may designate so long as the water shortage lasts.
Thereafter, and until the governing body declares the emergency at an end, it
shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, during such emergency,
to use water obtained from the municipal water system for any purpose other
than strictly domestic use and such other uses as the Town Board may have
designated.
(`85 Code, § 20-8) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 TURNING UTILITIES ON AGAIN.
   When a customer’s utility service has been cut off because of delinquency or
act or omission of the customer, it may be turned on again only when all
charges have been paid or other change in the conditions justify it. A charge
of $25 shall be made for turning a utility on again. A charge of $50 shall be
made for turning a utility on again if a meter has been removed and must be
replaced.
(`85 Code, § 20-9) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 UTILITIES TO BE TURNED BACK ON ONLY BY TOWN AUTHORITY.
   When a utility has been turned off by town personnel, it shall not be turned
on again without written permission of the Town Clerk.
(`85 Code, § 20-10)
§ 50.11 NO SERVICE CONNECTION UNTIL BILLS HAVE BEEN PAID.
   (A)   A person owing delinquent municipal utility bills or other charges in
connection with a municipal utility system shall not be extended additional
services until such bills and charges have been paid.
   (B)   No utility service will be provided or reestablished to any premises
until all outstanding fees, charges and penalties associated with the premises
have been fully rendered to the town, regardless of party responsibility for
outstanding charges.
(`85 Code, § 20-11)
2003 S-1 Repl.
§ 50.12 CUSTOMERS TO KEEP SERVICE PIPES IN GOOD REPAIR.
   All customers using town utilities shall keep their service pipes and other
apparatus in good repair and in proper operation and shall not unnecessarily
waste water nor contribute to unsanitary conditions.
(`85 Code, § 20-12)
§ 50.13 TOWN NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR UTILITY INTERRUPTION OR STOPPAGE.
   The town shall not be responsible for any damages due to stoppage or
interruption of any utility or service.
(`85 Code, § 20-13)
§ 50.14 TOWN PERSONNEL MAY INSPECT PRIVATE PREMISES.
   The Superintendent and other municipal personnel may enter any private
premises served by municipal utilities, with permission to inspect pipes,
fixtures and/or wiring on the premises or read and examine meters.
(`85 Code, § 20-14)
§ 50.15 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS; DAMAGE OF UTILITY SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, unless duly authorized by the
town, to open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to or
connect anything with any fire hydrant belonging to the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner obstruct access
to any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other
thing.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, destroy or tamper with
any pipes, lines, meters or other equipment or property which is a part of
municipal utility system.
(`85 Code, § 20-15) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The deposits for water, gas and electric service or meter deposits
shall be set by resolution.
   (B)   The deposit shall be paid to the Town Clerk by the customer in
addition to any connection fee, tap fee or monthly charge for service.
(`85 Code, § 20-121)
§ 50.17 CONNECTION AND TAP FEES.
   (A)   Water connections and tap fees for installation of water service from
the main to the property line, including installation of a meter and cut-off,
shall be charged for time and cost of materials needed.
   (B)   Sewer connection and inspection fees for installation of sewer service
shall be set by resolution.
   (C)   Gas connections and tap fees for installation of gas service from the
main to the property line, including installation of a meter and cut-off, shall
be set by resolution.
(`85 Code, § 20-122)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this title or of any ordinance,
code or standard adopted by this chapter, or maintains or permits to continue
any public nuisance as defined by this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as provided
for in §
10.99 of this code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 20-131)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Definition
   
51.02   Meters
   
51.03   Town to make and maintain water connections
   
51.04   Utility customer to install and maintain service line; shutoff valve
required
   
51.05   Right of entry to premises served by system
   
51.06   Right to turn off water in mains; town not liable for damages
   
51.07   Tampering with or injuring waterworks property
   
51.08   Use of water wells for domestic purposes
   
51.09   (Reserved)
   
51.10   Domestic use
   
51.11   Use of water interconnections prohibited
   
51.12   (Reserved)
   
51.13   Water well permits
§ 51.01 DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter, the terms WATER SYSTEM, WATERWORKS or WATER
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM shall mean the water works utility system of the town.
(`85 Code, § 20-20)
§ 51.02 METERS.
   Water from the waterworks system shall be furnished to customers only
through meters. All meters shall be set only under the directions of the
Superintendent, or his or her designated representative, of the utilities
systems.
(`85 Code, § 20-21)
§ 51.03 TOWN TO MAKE AND MAINTAIN WATER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make, inspect and maintain all connections to its water
lines. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized agent
or employee of the town, to make a connection to any water line belonging to or
controlled by the town.
   (B)   Installation of all water service lines from any premises to the main
water lines of the town shall be the responsibility of the premises owner.
Maintenance of all services lines from the meter to the premises shall be the
responsibility of the owner. The town shall maintain all meters and service
lines from the meter to the main lines.
   (C)   Installation of all service lines shall be conducted only by plumbers
duly licensed by the State of Oklahoma and the Town of Granite.
(`85 Code, § 20-22) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.04 UTILITY CUSTOMER TO INSTALL AND MAINTAIN SERVICE LINE; SHUTOFF VALVE
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each consumer of water furnished by the town shall lay his or her own
pipeline from the premises to the property line for the purpose of conveying
water to such point on his or her premises as he or she may desire; he or she
shall thereafter be required to keep the same in good repair and sanitary
condition.
   (B)   All service lines to be installed after the effective date of this
chapter shall include a master shutoff valve between the meter and the
premises. When any premises has had water service discontinued for 30 days or
more, water service shall not be restored until a master shutoff valve has been
installed as provided for herein.
(`85 Code, § 20-23)
§ 51.05 RIGHT OF ENTRY TO PREMISES SERVED BY SYSTEM.
   Consumers taking water from the town shall, at all reasonable hours, grant
any person authorized by the Town Board free access to all parts of the
premises to which water is delivered for the purpose of inspection and
examination of fixtures or to read the meters. Occupied premises that are not
accessible shall be required to make the premises accessible and shall be
assessed a fee of $10 per visit when accessibility is denied.
(`85 Code, § 20-24)
§ 51.06 RIGHT TO TURN OFF WATER IN MAINS; TOWN NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to turn off the water in its mains at any
time for the purpose of making repairs or in the event of a breakdown in
equipment.
   (B)   All persons taking water from the mains shall do so at their own risk,
and the town shall not be held responsible for any accident or damage of any
kind or character occasioned by pressure in the water mains, the shutting off
of the water or failure to keep water under pressure in the mains.
(`85 Code, § 20-25)
§ 51.07 TAMPERING WITH OR INJURING WATERWORKS PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or deface or in any way
tamper with any hydrant, meter, valve, pipeline or any part of the waterworks
system or to turn the water off or on from any main at any time or place,
unless he or she is duly authorized so to do by the Town Board.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, except duly authorized
officers and employees of the town, to scale, climb or go upon the town’s water
tower.
(`85 Code, § 20-26) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.08 USE OF WATER WELLS FOR DOMESTIC PURPOSES.
   No person shall have the right to drill any water well within the limits of
the town for any purpose other than for domestic purposes. In the event a
person shall desire to drill a water well for purposes other than domestic
purposes, the person may make application for the drilling and use of a water
well for purposes other than domestic purposes. A showing to the Board of
Trustees of the town that the drilling and use of the water well will not
jeopardize or otherwise interfere with the water supply of the town. The
application may in the discretion of the Board of Trustees be granted.
(`85 Code, § 20-27)
§ 51.09 (RESERVED).
§ 51.10 DOMESTIC USE.
   Domestic use means the use of water by a natural individual or by a family
or household for household purposes, for farm and domestic animals up to the
normal grazing capacity of the land and for the irrigation of the land not
exceeding the total of three acres in area for the growing of gardens, orchards
and lawns.
(`85 Code, § 20-29)
§ 51.11 USE OF WATER INTERCONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   Except as herein otherwise provided, water from privately owned wells within
the town shall be used only for domestic purposes on the premises where the
well is located, and there shall be no interconnection of any kind between any
such well and the water supply of the town or any connection thereto or
extension thereof. In the case of wells in use prior to the effective date of
this chapter, use of the water therefrom may be continued to the same extent
and for the same purposes, but such uses shall not be extended or increased. No
domestic water well shall be utilized to fill a natural or man made open
earthen basin nor to maintain water in the same, nor shall the water well be
used for recreational purposes or any purposes which may constitute waste.
(`85 Code, § 20-30)
§ 51.12 (RESERVED).
§ 51.13 WATER WELL PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person who otherwise qualifies for the drilling and use of a water
well within the town may apply in writing to the Town Clerk for a permit for
the use of the water well. The application shall state the location, depth and
capacity of the water well. The person shall, upon making the application, pay
to the Town Clerk a permit fee of $10. An authorized officer of the town shall
review the application to determine if the proposed water well complies with
the ordinances of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, the laws of the State of
Oklahoma and the regulations of the State Health Department. The authorized
officer may require the applicant to furnish in writing any additional
information required to make the determination. Upon approval of the
application by the Board of Trustees, the Town Clerk shall issue a permit for
the drilling and use of the water well.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued by the Town Clerk to any person, firm or
corporation unless such person, firm or corporation has been duly license by
the appropriate agency of the State of Oklahoma. Furthermore, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation not so licensed to drill any well
within the corporate limits of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 20-32) Penalty, see §
50.99
CHAPTER 52: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Town to make and maintain sewer connections
   
52.02   Mandatory sewer connections
   
52.03   Private sewage disposal facilities
Industrial Waste
   
52.15   Definitions
   
52.16   Powers to enter property
   
52.17   Authority to disconnect service
   
52.18   Prohibited discharges
   
52.19   Chemical discharges
   
52.20   Heavy metals and toxic materials
   
52.21   Impairment of facilities
   
52.22   Compliance with existing authority
   
52.23   Review and approval
   
52.24   Sampling and testing
   
52.25   Industrial and domestic charges
   
52.26   Conditions on permits
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 TOWN TO MAKE AND MAINTAIN SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make, inspect and maintain all extensions or additions
to its main sewer lines. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly
authorized agent or employee of the town, to make a connection with any sewer
line belonging to or controlled by the town.
   (B)   Installation and maintenance of all service lines and lateral lines
from the point where such lines connect with the sewer main to the premises
being served shall be the responsibility of the owner of the premises being
served; provided, however, that all installation and maintenance shall be
provided only by plumbers duly licensed by the State of Oklahoma and the Town
of Granite.
(`85 Code, § 20-40) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The owners of all houses, buildings or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is located a
public sanitary sewer of the town are required, at their own expense, to
install suitable toilet facilities therein and to have such facilities
connected directly with the proper public sewer within 60 days after the date
of official notice to do so, provided that such public sewer is within 300 feet
of the property line. Any lift station required for proper connection to the
public sewer shall be installed and maintained by the person in charge of the
premises.
   (B)   The notice shall be served by any member of the Town Board or other
duly authorized agent by delivering a true and correct copy to the property
owner or leaving the same at his or her usual place of residence with a member
of his or her family over the age of 15 years or if such owner cannot be found,
by posting a copy of the notice at the front entrance of the building involved.
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the terms
of this section after having been notified so to do as provided herein shall be
guilty of an offense, and each 24-hour period thereafter shall constitute a
separate offense. In the event of a continuous violation of this section by any
property owner, the town shall discontinue the furnishing of water to such
property owner until such time as a proper sewer connection has been made.
(`85 Code, § 20-41) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided in this section, it shall be unlawful
for any person to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool or other facility intended to be used for the disposal of sewage
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Where a connection to a public sanitary sewer line is not required
under the provisions of §
52.02, a private septic tank or cesspool facility for sewage disposal may be
constructed and maintained, provided it is constructed and maintained under the
rules and regulations of the town and county health officer and in compliance
with the recommendations and requirements of the Oklahoma State Department of
Public Health. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to
any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   The owner of private septic tanks or cesspools shall operate and
maintain the same in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town,
and no statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer of the
town, county or state.
   (D)   At such times as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a septic tank or cesspool, a direct connection shall be made to such public
sewer in compliance with §
52.02, and the septic tank or cesspool shall immediately be abandoned and
filled with suitable material.
(`85 Code, § 20-42) Penalty, see §
52.99
INDUSTRIAL WASTE
§ 52.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen by weight,
expressed in mg/l, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory conditions for five days at a temperature of 20°C.
   C.O.D. (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The measure of the oxygen-consuming
capacity of inorganic and organic matter present in the water or wastewater,
expressed in mg/l, as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in
a specific test but not differentiating between stable and unstable organic
matter and thus not necessarily correlating with biochemical oxygen demand.
   CONTROL POINT. A point of access to a course of discharge before the
discharge mixes with other discharges in the public way.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade or business from the development of any natural resource
or any mixture of waste with water or normal wastewater or distinct from normal
wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE. The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the municipal sewerage system.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). The same as parts per million and is a weight-
to-volume ratio; the milligram per liter value multiplied by the factor 8.54
shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater, excluding industrial wastewater,
discharged by a person into sanitary sewers and in which the average
concentration of total suspended solids is not more than 300 mg/l and B.O.D. is
not more than 250 mg/l.
   pH. The logarithm (Base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration.
   PUBLIC SEWER. The pipe or conduit carrying wastewater or unpolluted
drainage, in which owners of abutting properties shall have the use, subject to
control by the municipality.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids measured in mg/l that either float on the surface
of, or are in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids and which are
largely removable by a laboratory filtration device.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-carried waste from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
any ground, surface and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. All facilities for collection, pumping, treating and
disposing of wastewater and industrial waste.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed, in strength, the concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
(`85 Code, § 11-1)
§ 52.16 POWERS TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   (A)   Officially designated municipal representatives and other duly
authorized municipal employees bearing proper credentials and identification
are entitled to enter any public or private property at any reasonable time for
the purpose of enforcing this chapter.
   (B)   Any one acting under this authority shall observe the establishment’s
rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security and fire protection.
(`85 Code, § 11-2)
§ 52.17 AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   The town may terminate water and wastewater disposal service and disconnect
an industrial customer from the system when:
   (A)   Acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment processes are
released to the sewer, causing rapid deterioration of these structures or
interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
   (B)   (1)   A governmental agency informs the town that the effluent from
the wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for
discharge to a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is delivering
wastewater to the municipal system that cannot be sufficiently treated or
requires treatment that is not provided as normal domestic treatment; or
      (2)   The industrial customer:
         (a)   Discharges industrial waste or wastewater that is in violation
of the permit issued by the approving authority;
         (b)   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
         (c)   Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer services
when due; or
         (d)   Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers.
(`85 Code, § 11-3)
§ 52.18 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste which by itself or
by interaction with other wastes may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      (3)   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   (B)   All discharges shall conform to requirements of this chapter.
(`85 Code, § 11-10)
§ 52.19 CHEMICAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No discharge to public sewers may contain:
      (1)   Cyanide greater than 0.05 mg/l;
      (2)   Fluoride, other than that contained in the public water supply;
      (3)   Chlorides in concentrations greater than 250 mg/l;
      (4)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas; or
      (5)   Substances causing an excessive chemical oxygen demand.
   (B)   No waste or wastewater discharged to public waters may contain:
      (1)   Strong acid, iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating
solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (2)   Objectionable or toxic substances exerting an excessive chlorine
requirement to such degree that any such material received in the composite
wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by
the approving authority for such materials; or
      (3)   Obnoxious, toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
quantities sufficient to violate the provisions of §
52.18.
   (C)   No waste, wastewater or other substance may be discharged into public
sewers which has a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5 or any other corrosive
property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and/or
personnel at the wastewater facilities.
   (D)   All waste, wastewater or other substance containing phenols, hydrogen
sulfide or other taste and odor producing substances shall conform to
concentration limits established by the approving authority. After treatment of
the composite wastewater, concentration limits may not exceed the requirements
established by state, federal or other agencies with jurisdiction over
discharges to receiving waters.
(`85 Code, § 11-11)
§ 52.20 HEAVY METALS AND TOXIC MATERIALS.
   (A)   No discharges may contain concentrations of heavy metals greater than
the amounts specified in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The maximum allowable concentrations of heavy metals stated in terms
of milligrams per liter (mg/l), determined on the basis of individual sampling
in accordance with “Standard Methods,” are:
      (1)   Arsenic: 0.50 mg/l;
      (2)   Barium: 5.00 mg/l;
      (3)   Boron: 1.00 mg/l;
      (4)   Cadmium: 0.03 mg/l;
      (5)   Chromium (Total): 0.50 mg/l;
      (6)   Copper: 0.05 mg/l;
      (7)   Lead: 0.90 mg/l;
      (8)   Manganese: 5.00 mg/l;
      (9)   Mercury: 0.002 mg/l;
      (10)   Nickel: 1.00 mg/l;
      (11)   Selenium: 0.05 mg/l;
      (12)   Silver: 0.10 mg/l;
      (13)   Zinc: 0.05 mg/l.
   (C)   No other heavy metals or toxic materials may be discharged into public
sewers without a permit from the Town Board of Trustees specifying conditions
of pretreatment, concentrations, volumes and other applicable provisions.
   (D)   Prohibited heavy metals and toxic materials include but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Antimony;
      (2)   Beryllium;
      (3)   Bismuth;
      (4)   Cobalt;
      (5)   Herbicides;
      (6)   Fungicides;
      (7)   Molybdenum;
      (8)   Pesticides;
      (9)   Rhenium;
      (10)   Strontium;
      (11)   Tellurium;
      (12)   Uranylion.
(`85 Code, § 11-12)
§ 52.21 IMPAIRMENT OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance capable of
causing:
      (1)   Obstruction to the flow in sewers;
      (2)   Interference with the operation of treatment processes of
facilities; or
      (3)   Excessive loading of treatment facilities.
   (B)   Discharges prohibited by division (A) of this section include, but are
not limited to, materials which exert or cause concentrations of:
      (1)   Inert suspended solid greater than 250 mg/l, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Fuller’s earth;
         (b)   Lime slurries; and
         (c)   Lime residues;
      (2)   Dissolved solids greater than 500 mg/l, including, but not limited
to:
         (a)   Sodium chlorides; and
         (b)   Sodium’s sulfate;
      (3)   Excessive discoloration, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Dye wastes; and
         (b)   Vegetable tanning solutions; or
      (4)   B.O.D., C.O.D. or chlorine demand, in excess of normal plant
capacity.
   (C)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance that may:
      (1)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner as to
clog the sewers;
      (2)   Overload skimming and grease handling equipment;
      (3)   Pass to the receiving waters without being effectively treated by
normal wastewater treatment processes due to the nonamendability of the
substances to bacterial action; or
      (4)   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
   (D)   No person may discharge any substance into public sewers which:
      (1)   Is not amendable to treatment or reduction by the processes and
facilities employed; or
      (2)   Is amendable to treatment only to such a degree that the treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   The Town Board of Trustees shall regulate the flow and concentration
of slugs when they may:
      (1)   Impair the treatment process;
      (2)   Cause damage to collection facilities;
      (3)   Incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater; or
      (4)   Render the waste unfit for stream disposal or industrial use.
   (F)   No person may discharge into public sewers solid or viscous substances
which may violate division (A) of this section, if present in sufficient
quantity or size, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Ashes;
      (2)   Feathers;
      (3)   Entrails;
      (4)   Cinders;
      (5)   Tar;
      (6)   Paper products, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (7)   Sand;
      (8)   Plastics;
      (9)   Mud;
      (10)   Wood;
      (11)   Straw;
      (12)   Unground garbage;
      (13)   Slops;
      (14)   Metal;
      (15)   Whole blood;
      (16)   Chemical residues;
      (17)   Shavings;
      (18)   Paunch manure;
      (19)   Paint residues;
      (20)   Glass;
      (21)   Hair and fleshings;
      (22)   Bulk solids;
      (23)   Rags.
(`85 Code, § 11-13)
§ 52.22 COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Unless exception is granted by the Town Board of Trustees, the public
sanitary sewer system shall be used by all persons discharging:
      (1)   Wastewater;
      (2)   Industrial waste; or
      (3)   Polluted liquids.
   (B)   Unless authorized by the Oklahoma State Department of Health, no
person may deposit or discharge any waste included in division (A) of this
section on public or private property into or adjacent to any:
      (1)   Natural outlet;
      (2)   Watercourse;
      (3)   Storm sewer; or
      (4)   Other area within the jurisdiction of the town.
   (C)   The Town Board of Trustees shall verify, prior to discharge, that
wastes authorized to be discharged will receive suitable treatment within the
provisions of laws, regulations, ordinances, rules and orders of federal, state
and local government.
(`85 Code, § 11-14)
§ 52.23 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   If pretreatment or control is required, the Town Board of Trustees
shall review and approve design and installation of equipment and processes.
   (B)   The design and installation of equipment and processes must conform to
all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances and other laws.
   (C)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring pretreatment, flow-
equalizing or other facilities shall provide and maintain the facilities in
effective operating condition at his or her own expense.
(`85 Code, § 11-15)
§ 52.24 SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   (A)   Sampling shall be conducted according to customarily accepted methods,
reflecting the effect of constituents upon the sewage work and determining the
existence of hazards to health, life, limb and property and shall be conducted
in accordance with the standard methods of sampling effluents and wastewater
which are employed by the Oklahoma State Department of Health.
   (B)   Examination and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes
required by this chapter shall be:
      (1)   Conducted in accordance with the latest edition of Oklahoma State
Health Department standards; and
      (2)   Determined from suitable samples taken at the control manhole
provided or other control point authorized by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   B.O.D. and suspended solids shall be determined from composite
sampling, except to detect unauthorized discharges.
   (D)   The town may select an independent firm or laboratory to determine
flow, B.O.D. and suspended solids.
   (E)   The town is entitled to select the time of sampling, at its sole
discretion, so long as annual samples (minimum) are taken.
(`85 Code, § 11-16)
§ 52.25 INDUSTRIAL AND DOMESTIC CHARGES.
   Charges for industrial and domestic users shall be as determined by the
Granite Public Works Authority.
(`85 Code, § 11-17)
§ 52.26 CONDITIONS ON PERMITS.
   (A)   The town may grant a permit to discharge persons meeting all
requirements of the savings clause, provided that the person:
      (1)   Submits an application within 180 days after the effective date of
this chapter on forms supplied by the Town Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Secures approval by the Town Board of Trustees of plans and
specifications for pretreatment facilities when required; and
      (3)   Has complied with all requirements for agreements or arrangements,
including but not limited to provisions for:
         (a)   Payment of charges;
         (b)   Installation and operation of pretreatment facilities; and
         (c)   Sampling and analysis to determine quantity and strength.
   (B)   A person applying for a new discharge shall:
      (1)   Meet all conditions of division (A) of this section; and
      (2)   Secure a permit prior to discharging any waste.
(`85 Code, § 11-18)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter or continues any violation beyond a time limit designated in this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this code. Each day upon which such violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 11-25)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
53.01   Collection and disposal declared to be a town function
   
53.02   Purpose
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Accumulation a nuisance; containers
   
53.05   Burning of solid waste
   
53.06   Who may remove solid waste
   
53.07   Machine grinding
   
53.08   Disposition of animal carcasses
   
53.09   Collection of rates and charges
   
53.10   Nonresidents prohibited to use town dumpsters, containers
§ 53.01 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL DECLARED TO BE A TOWN FUNCTION.
   The collection and disposal of garbage, trash and refuse is declared to be a
municipal function of the town as a protection of the public health; the police
powers of the town shall be invoked when necessary for the enforcement of this
chapter. In addition, the town may collect and dispose of refuse, as it deems
necessary, provided that such disposal shall be by an approved method of
incineration (not open burning) or by landfill and daily cover.
(`85 Code, § 20-48)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter and it is declared to be the policy of the
town, pursuant to the authority of the Oklahoma Solid Waste Management Act (63
O.S. §§ 2251 through 2265, inclusive), to regulate the collection and disposal
of solid wastes in a manner that will protect the public health and welfare,
prevent air and water pollution, prevent the spread of disease and the erosion
of nuisances, conserve the natural resources and enhance and preserve the
beauty and quality of the town’s environment.
(`85 Code, § 20-49)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, firm, partnership,
association, trust or other legal entity, however constituted or organized.
   REFUSE. Tree trimmings, junked building materials and roofing materials,
manufacturing waste, rocks, dirt and other waste material not defined as solid
waste or trash.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and nonputrescible refuse in solid or semi
solid form, including but not limited to garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes or
incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition wastes,
construction wastes solid or semi-solid commercial and industrial wastes and
hazardous wastes (including explosive, pathological wastes, chemical wastes,
herbicide and pesticide wastes).
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The entire process of storage, collection,
transportation, processing and burying solid wastes at or in a site approved by
the Oklahoma State Department of Health.
   TRASH. Paper, rags, containers of paper, tin cans, yard and house sweepings
and all other household waste but not tree trimmings, building and
manufacturing waste, sewage and rocks, raw dirt, rainwater and other liquid
refuse properly disposable through the sanitary sewers of the town.
(`85 Code, § 20-50)
§ 53.04 ACCUMULATION A NUISANCE; CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person in charge of any lot or piece of ground
to allow solid waste to accumulate thereon so as to cause an offensive odor to
be emitted therefrom or to become injurious or dangerous to the health of the
neighborhood or any inhabitant thereof. Any such condition is declared a
violation of this chapter and punishable as such and in addition is declared to
be a nuisance and may be abated as such.
   (B)   Any person constructing any structure within the town shall, prior to
construction on any premises in the town, furnish and place on the premises a
container of suitable size and design to contain all solid waste which might,
by the winds or elements, be distributed and blown from the premises; the
container shall be used by the person concerned at all times to keep the
premises from becoming unsightly with solid waste.
   (C)   Any person who fails to keep the premises on which any structure is
being built or installed free from solid waste and who allows the waste to blow
or be carried from the premises to adjoining or other property or into the town
streets shall be deemed guilty of causing a nuisance and shall be subject to
the penalties in this code of ordinances prescribed therefor.
   (D)   All persons in charge of any premises or piece of ground shall deposit
for collection all solid waste in containers provided by the Town of Granite,
Oklahoma, or its contract agent.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to deposit for collection or other
purpose any solid waste on any street, alley or public parking area or on any
private property, unless the same is deposited in cans or containers as herein
above prescribed, neatness on a block for which the receptacles or containers
are furnished or provided, persons in charge of premises, lots or pieces of
ground within the town shall transfer the solid waste accumulated on their own
premises and contained in receptacles or containers, as herein above
prescribed, to the block containers furnished or provided by the town or its
solid waste disposal contract agent.
   (F)   Containers used for holding combustible or noncombustible wastes shall
be maintained in good condition. Any waste container that does not conform to
the provisions of this chapter that may have ragged or sharp edges or may have
any other defect liable to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents
thereof must be promptly replaced by a proper receptacle upon receipt of notice
to that effect from the collector; if not so replaced within ten days after
receipt of such notice, the nonconforming or defective container may be
collected and disposed of by said collector.
(`85 Code, § 20-51) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.05 BURNING OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to start or maintain any fire or
cause any fire to be started or maintained for the purpose of burning or
incinerating any solid waste in barrels or open containers. Burning of old
buildings, large amounts of grass, weeds, tree limbs and garden residue will be
permitted after notifying the office of the Town Clerk or the Granite Fire
Department.
   (B)   Any person starting or maintaining a fire for the purpose of burning
any solid waste which necessitates the fire truck shall pay for a fire truck
service charge in the amount of $50.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or install, within any building in
the town, any incinerator designed to burn solid waste.
(`85 Code, § 20-52) (Am. Ord. 174, passed 8-11-86) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.06 WHO MAY REMOVE SOLID WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except under contract, as is
hereinafter provided for, to remove or cause to be removed any solid waste
materials from any garbage can or other receptacle used for the deposit of
same.
(`85 Code, § 20-53) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.07 MACHINE GRINDING.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or to install within any retail store or
other commercial or industrial establishment within the town any mechanical or
power-driven device or machine for the grinding of solid waste materials
designed to be introduced into the sewer system of the town, unless the same
has been approved by the Town Board of Trustees to ensure that such waste will
not block or otherwise interfere with the sewer system.
(`85 Code, § 20-54) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.08 DISPOSITION OF ANIMAL CARCASSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury or cause to be buried the
carcass of any dead animal at any place within the town. The town shall not be
responsible for the disposition of dead animals.
(`85 Code, § 20-55) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.09 COLLECTION OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   To facilitate the collection of the solid waste rates and charges
levied and assessed in this chapter, the Clerk or other designated agent of the
town is further directed to include the charges on the same bill by which the
town bills for and collects for its sewer, water or other services to the end
that the rates and charges herein levied shall be paid and collected by the
town at the same time. The rates and charges levied shall be shown on said bill
as a separate and distinct item of charge.
   (B)   In the event any owner, occupant or person in charge of any user unit
against whom a charge has been herein levied and assessed fails or otherwise
refuses to pay the charge, the Utility Superintendent or other person
responsible is directed to terminate all services rendered thereto, including
water, gas and electric services when the account has been delinquent for a
period of 30 days.
No services thus terminated shall be reconnected or renewed until such time as
all charges have been paid in full to the then current date. In addition, the
Clerk is further directed to institute any appropriate legal action to collect
the delinquency if the same is not paid after the expiration of 60 days.
(`85 Code, § 20-56)
§ 53.10 NONRESIDENTS PROHIBITED TO USE TOWN DUMPSTERS, CONTAINERS.
   Any person, corporation or other type of entity is prohibited from using
dumpsters or other type containers located in the town for the disposal of
garbage, refuse and trash if they are residents outside the town limits and do
not pay the town their charge for such services.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-14-97) Penalty, see §
50.99
CHAPTER 54: GAS
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Code adopted
   
54.02   Conflict
Gas Inspector
   
54.15   Certificate
   
54.16   Authority; rejection of work
   
54.17   Alterations; reinspection
   
54.18   Approval; when inspected
   
54.19   Authority of Inspector extended
   
54.20   Permit
   
54.21   Appointment of Gas Inspector
Regulations
   
54.35   License required
   
54.36   Size of fittings
   
54.37   Size of pipes for furnaces
   
54.38   Materials specified; general requirements
   
54.39   Pipes used in alterations
   
54.40   Pipes to fixtures
   
54.41   Molesting fixtures
   
54.42   Service pipes and meters; how set
   
54.43   Requirements enumerated
   
54.44   Separate ditches
   
54.45   Valves in accessible place
   
54.46   Floor valves
   
54.47   Openings; how closed
   
54.48   Ranges and the like to be vented
   
54.49   Gas shut off on dangerous fixtures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 CODE ADOPTED.
   All gas fitting or repairs of gas fitting in the town and all materials and
appliances used in connection therewith and all operation, arrangement and
maintenance of such gas fitting shall be done in strict conformance with the
Plumbing Code of the National Association of Master Plumbers of The United
States, Inc., as revised, 1984, and the Code is adopted as a part of this
chapter by reference, provided that wherever the words “proper administrative
authority” appears in the Code, the words shall refer to the Board of Trustees;
and provided further that wherever the words “authority having jurisdiction
over plumbing” appears, the words shall refer to the Plumbing Inspector of the
Town of Granite.
(`85 Code, § 20-87)
§ 54.02 CONFLICT.
   In the event of any conflict in the provisions of this chapter and the Code
above adopted, the Code shall in all things be complied with and have
preference.
(`85 Code, § 20-88)
GAS INSPECTOR
§ 54.15 CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The words GAS INSPECTOR as used in this chapter refer to the Gas
Inspector of the Town of Granite, and he or she shall have supervision over all
work regulated by this chapter relating to gas fitting.
   (B)   All pipes must be inspected by the Gas Inspector as soon as possible
after the work is finished and before the building is lathed, and if the same
conforms to the provisions of the ordinances of the Town of Granite, the Gas
Inspector shall, upon the payment of the fees therefor, issue a certificate of
inspection. The town shall furnish the Gas Inspector with proper proving
apparatus for testing all piping fixtures and meters. Any piping fixture or
meter found to be defective shall be ordered removed and same replaced with
perfect materials, fixtures or meters at the expense of the person having work
done.
(`85 Code, § 20-78)
§ 54.16 AUTHORITY; REJECTION OF WORK.
   (A)   The Gas Inspector shall have the right and authority to enter any
building or premises at any reasonable hour to ascertain whether or not the
provisions of the ordinances of the town relating to gas fitting have been and
are being complied with.
   (B)   Whenever the Gas Inspector has reason to believe that defective or
unsafe piping or fitting exists in or upon any building or premises, or if he
or she be so requested by the agent, owner or occupant thereof, he or she shall
inspect the gas piping and fitting upon such premises, and if he or she shall
find that said gas pipings and fittings are defective or unsafe in any respect,
it shall be his or her duty to so notify the agent or owner of the building or
premises in or upon which such defects are found of said condition and to
forthwith cause such gas piping or fitting to be altered or repaired so that
the same shall conform to the rules and regulations contained in this chapter
or to be changed and made safe in any other manner as the Gas Inspector may
prescribe.
(`85 Code, § 20-79)
§ 54.17 ALTERATIONS; REINSPECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter or change any pipe or pipes
after inspection has been made without having the same inspected by the Gas
Inspector, in which event the same fees shall be charged as in a case of
original inspection.
(`85 Code, § 20-80) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 54.18 APPROVAL; WHEN INSPECTED.
   On inspection of gas fittings of any building, the Gas Inspector shall leave
a notice in the form of a tag or label attached to the gas pipe or building,
when such work has been passed by inspection; and no person shall lath, seal
floor or in any way conceal any piping until such tag or label has been
attached thereto. The Gas Inspector must in all cases inspect all pipe work and
connections of gas fittings within 48 hours of receipt of notice that the work
is complete, tested and read for inspection.
(`85 Code, § 20-81)
§ 54.19 AUTHORITY OF INSPECTOR EXTENDED.
   The Gas Inspector shall be empowered to use his or her discretion in
enforcing additional measures relating to gas piping or fittings not
specifically required by this chapter to safeguard the property interest
against injury, loss or damage.
(`85 Code, § 20-82)
§ 54.20 PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. Every gas fitter shall, before doing work of any kind
mentioned in this chapter, obtain a permit therefor from the Gas Inspector.
(`85 Code, § 20-83)
   (B)   Application. The person desiring a permit shall file a written
application therefor, together with a plan or sketch of the work to be
performed with the Gas Inspector.
(`85 Code, § 20-84)
   (C)   Issued; when. The Gas Inspector shall issue a permit for such work
upon his or her approval of the plans and specifications accompanying the
application therefor; and no such work shall be done in any building without a
written permit from the Gas Inspector.
(`85 Code, § 20-85)
§ 54.21 APPOINTMENT OF GAS INSPECTOR.
   The Board of Trustees shall at such time as the Board may deem proper and
necessary appoint a Gas Inspector for the town who shall perform such duties as
herein outlined and such other duties as may be directed by the Board of
Trustees and who shall receive such compensation or salary as may be from time
to time fixed by the Board of Trustees and who shall be subject to removal by
the Board of Trustees at its discretion, provided that the Gas Inspector may
also be appointed Plumbing Inspector of the town at the discretion of the Board
of Trustees; and provided further that the Utility Superintendent shall act as
such Gas Inspector at all times there is a vacancy of such office, without
further compensation.
(`85 Code, § 20-86)
REGULATIONS
§ 54.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall do gas fitting within the town or do
any kind of work connected therewith, unless regularly licensed as provided by
the State Department of Health.
(`85 Code, § 20-63)
§ 54.36 SIZE OF FITTINGS.
   (A)   The size of the pipe to be used in piping buildings for gas (other
than for the supply of gas engines, instantaneous automatic hot water heaters,
hot air furnaces and low pressure steam or circulating water boilers for
heating) shall depend upon the number of 3/8 inch openings to be supplied
thereby and upon the length or run of the pipe from the supply pipe to the
opening. In determining the size of the pipe and maximum length of run thereof
for a given number of 3/8 inch openings, the following table shall control:
Openings
Top size of pipe inches, under length of pipe in feet
 3/8  3/4 1 1 1 2 2 3
Openings
Top size of pipe inches, under length of pipe in feet
   3/8    3/4 1   1   1   2   2   3
1   20  40 70  100 150 200 300
2       20 60  100 150 200 300
4       10 50  80  150 200 300
6          40  70  150 200 300 400
8          30  60  120 200 300 400
10             50  100 170 300 400 500
14             40  90  140 300 400 500
18             30  70  120 275 400 500
22                 50  100 250 350 450
30                 30  70  225 300 400
40                 25  50  190 250 350
50                     40  160 225 300
60                     30  130 200 275
76                     25  100 175 250
100                        75  150 225
126                        50  125 200
150                            100 150
200                            75  100
250                            50  75
300                                50
400                                30
 
   (B)   In applying the foregoing table, the following rules shall prevail,
to-wit: one stove outlet, -inch opening; one gas log or other grate fire, 3/4-
inch opening; one kitchen range, 3/4-inch opening; one kitchen boiler heater
separated from range, -inch opening.
(`85 Code, § 20-64)
§ 54.37 SIZE OF PIPES FOR FURNACES.
   (A)   The size of pipe and maximum length of run thereof for hot air
furnaces and low pressure steam or circulating water boilers shall be
determined by the following table.
 
Number of Rooms Size of Pipe (Inches) Length (Feet)
               1¼1½ 2              2½ 3   4
10 or less      70 100 150            200 300 400
11 to 15           80  120            160 240 300
16 to 25               100            140 200 250
26 to 50                              120 170 200
51 to 80                                  140 170
 
   (B)   Whenever two pipes regulated by this section or one pipe regulated by
§ 54.36 have the same supply pipe; such supply pipe shall be one standard size
larger than the largest of such pipes supplied thereby.
(`85 Code, § 20-65)
§ 54.38 MATERIALS SPECIFIED; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to convey gas through a rubber hose,
lead or brass or copper connections or PVC pipe, and all gas pipe and fittings
must be done by a licensed gas fitter or some practical gas fitter who may act
under his or her principal if the principal have a license under the inspection
of the Gas Inspector. Every job of gas piping must be reported to the Gas
Inspector as soon as roughed in and it must show no leakage under a ten pound
pressure on a spring or mercury gauge at the discretion of the Gas Inspector
for 15 minutes. This test must be made by the Gas inspector, and no job of gas
fitting shall be concealed until a certificate of inspection has been issued
for the same by the Gas Inspector. All service shall be provided with a curb
cock and box at curb line, the same to be furnished by the town.
(`85 Code, § 20-66) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 54.39 PIPES USED IN ALTERATIONS.
   All pipes and fittings used in making alterations, additions or repairs
shall be of the same quality as herein required for new work of the same
character, provided that such pipe and fittings need not be new if sound and of
the required quality, and all such repairs, alterations and additions shall be
inspected and certificate of approval issued therefor by the Gas Inspector.
(`85 Code, § 20-67)
§ 54.40 PIPES TO FIXTURES.
   All pipes must be run to fixtures in the most direct manner possible, and
all pipes must be graded to secure proper drainage without excessive cutting of
floor joists or otherwise damaging the building. All pipes that run crosswise
of the floor joists shall be laid not more than one foot from bearings.
Fastening boards shall not be cut away in order to accommodate electric wires.
(`85 Code, § 20-68)
§ 54.41 MOLESTING FIXTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, alter or in any way molest
any gas fixture, pipe or appliance, except a duly license plumber or his or her
authorized agent or a duly authorized official of the Town of Granite.
(`85 Code, § 20-69) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 54.42 SERVICE PIPES AND METERS; HOW SET.
   All service pipes must be 18 inches deep from the top of curb or alley grade
line. All gas meters must be located so that the meter connections are easily
accessible in order that the meter index may be easily read and so that the
stop cock can be easily reached to turn gas off or on. Meter connections must
have street “Ell” on the inlet and “Ell” on the outlet. No gas meter shall be
located under stoops, sidewalks, show windows or near any furnace or placed in
any other position where they will be inaccessible or liable to injury.
(`85 Code, § 20-70)
§ 54.43 REQUIREMENTS ENUMERATED.
   (A)   All service pipes hereafter installed from property lines or curb to
meter shall not be less than 1¼ inches.
   (B)   Key valves must be used wherever directed by the Gas Inspector.
   (C)   For large buildings, hotels, business houses and the like, application
must be made to the Gas Inspector for the size of the service required.
   (D)   No lead connection can be used in gas piping.
   (E)   No PVC pipe can be used as gas piping.
(`85 Code, § 20-71)
§ 54.44 SEPARATE DITCHES.
   All gas service shall be placed in a separate ditch from water service or
sewer and must not be less than 18 inches from water service and not less than
two feet from a sewer ditch.
(`85 Code, § 20-72)
§ 54.45 VALVES IN ACCESSIBLE PLACE.
   All valves shall be placed in an easily accessible place where they can be
packed from time to time.
(`85 Code, § 20-73)
§ 54.46 FLOOR VALVES.
   All grates shall have floor valves. Floor valves for grates or fireplaces
must be of such character that by taking up the floor plate they are accessible
for repacking the valve stem. Valves shall be in place when inspection is made.
(`85 Code, § 20-74)
§ 54.47 OPENINGS; HOW CLOSED.
   All openings must be closed with threaded plugs or caps. Split pipe or
broken fittings must not be repaired with cement or lead or any other similar
product but shall be replaced with sound pipe and fittings. Bushings shall not
be used in any case and instead nipples and reducing couplings shall be used.
No connections except connection for stoves shall hereafter be made with a
union.
(`85 Code, § 20-75)
§ 54.48 RANGES AND THE LIKE TO BE VENTED.
   All gas ranges, heaters, water heaters and furnaces must be vented into a
brick flue in fire limits and satisfactory fireproof flues in all other places
and in such manner as to permit a free outlet for all fumes
or escaping gas. All vent pipes passing through wood partitions must be
protected by thimble with proper air space, except that no vent pipe shall pass
through any closet or pantry used for the storage of clothing, household goods
or any combustible material.
(`85 Code, § 20-76)
§ 54.49 GAS SHUT OFF ON DANGEROUS FIXTURES.
   The Gas Inspector shall shut off or cause to be shut off all gas connections
with residences or business houses in Granite where in his or her judgment the
gas fitting is dangerous. The gas shall remain shut off until such time as the
fitting is made safe as directed by the Gas Inspector and approved by him or
her.
(`85 Code, § 20-77)
CHAPTER 55: ELECTRICITY
Section
General Provisions
   
55.01   National Code adopted
   
55.02   Interference with Inspector
   
55.03   Utility Superintendent appointed
   
55.04   Certificate of inspection
Electrical Wiring
   
55.20   Permit
   
55.21   Connection unlawful; when
   
55.22   Old wiring and the like
   
55.23   Inspection requirements
   
55.24   Plans and drawings
   
55.25   License required
   
55.26   Bond required
   
55.27   License issued
   
55.28   Defects corrected, permits refused, license revoked
   
55.29   Sections of work inspected
   
55.30   Steel conduits
   
55.31   Other questions decided
   
55.32   Excavations
   
55.33   Suspension of wire; stringing
   
55.34   Condemnation of wiring
   
55.35   Overhead electric wires
   
55.36   Dead wires
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.01 NATIONAL CODE ADOPTED.
   All electrical construction, materials and appliances used in connection
therewith and the operation, arrangement and maintenance of all electrical
apparatus shall be in strict conformance with the National Electric Code, which
Code is adopted as a part of this chapter by reference.
(`85 Code, § 20-118)
§ 55.02 INTERFERENCE WITH INSPECTOR.
   The Utility Superintendent or designated employee, while in the discharge of
their duties, shall have authority to enter any building or premises at any
reasonable hour, and any person interfering in the discharge of their duties
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(`85 Code, § 20-117) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 55.03 UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT APPOINTED.
   (A)   Appointment. The President of the Board of Trustees, with the advice
and consent of the Board, shall appoint a Utility Superintendent of the town,
who shall receive such salary as the Board of Trustees may determine and shall
hold office until his or her successor shall have been appointed and qualified.
(`85 Code, § 20-96)
   (B)   Requirements. The Utility Superintendent shall have had practical
experience in electrical construction and be someone who is familiar with the
National Electric Code and the application of same and shall take an oath to
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his or her office.
(`85 Code, § 20-97)
   (C)   Duties.  
      (1)   The Utility Superintendent shall have general management and
control of the system of electric lights, gas distribution system and water
works system in the town under the direction of the Board of Trustees. He or
she shall faithfully account for all moneys that may come in his or her hands
once a month, showing the condition of such systems and all such improvements,
repair, extensions and additional machinery that he or she may think proper to
make or maintain, together with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she
shall also at the same time make a detailed report of all expenses incurred in
the running and management of such systems.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Utility Superintendent or designated
employee to issue the permits provided in this chapter and to make the
inspections of all work for which such permits have been issued, as provided in
this chapter, and to perform such other and further duties from time to time as
may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 20-98)
§ 55.04 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any work covered by a permit in accordance with the
rules of this chapter and to the satisfaction of the Utility Superintendent,
the Utility Superintendent shall issue a certificate of inspection, in which he
or she shall certify that the work conforms to the rules governing same, as
specified by this chapter. Whenever a permit is issued for an addition to old
work which does not
conform to the rules herein, the Utility Superintendent shall, upon
satisfactory completions of the addition, issue a statement that the new work
complies with the rules, but that a certificate cannot be issued because of its
connection with the old work which does not comply with the rules.
(`85 Code, § 20-99)
ELECTRICAL WIRING
§ 55.20 PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do electrical wiring in or on any
building in the town who does not possess a permit from the Town Clerk of the
Town of Granite.
(`85 Code, § 20-95) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 55.21 CONNECTION UNLAWFUL; WHEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect to any electric wiring of any
kind without having a certificate of inspection or written statement from the
Utility Superintendent, if the work is of a class regarded additional to all
work, as provided in this chapter.
(`85 Code, § 20-101) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 55.22 OLD WIRING AND THE LIKE.
   Any person who owns real property that contains wiring or electrical
apparatus which is old and does not conform with the other provisions of this
subchapter pertaining to electrical wiring shall execute a certain instrument
which shall hold the town harmless for damages caused by old and faulty wiring
or other electrical apparatus which does not conform. The liability of the
party holding the town harmless from such damages shall continue until the
electrical system does conform with this subchapter, regardless of in whom
title to the real estate is vested in the future.
(Am. Ord. 173, passed 2-20-86)
§ 55.23 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner interfere with any
electric wiring in or on any building in any manner whatsoever. If in any case
the wiring is in such a position as to interfere with the completion of the
building as called for by the plans, the wiring contractor must be notified to
have it changed. No wood or metal work is to be placed within one inch of an
electrical conductor. Upon inspecting the electrical wiring of any building,
the Utility Superintendent or his or her qualified
representative shall leave a notice in the form of a tag or label attached to
the service. This notice shall clearly state whether the wiring is approved or
is to be kept open for corrections; and no worker shall lath, seal or in any
manner conceal any electrical wiring until they know positively that it has
been approved. The Utility Superintendent must in all cases inspect or cause to
be inspected by a qualified representative any electrical wring within the
corporate limits of the town within 48 hours of the receipt of written notice
from the electric wring contractor that the work is completed (holidays and
Sundays not included in this time). All steam fitting, furnace work, gas
fitting and telephone wiring which is to be concealed must be placed in before
the electric wiring is completed, and no wiring will be considered as complete
until the above work referred to is in place.
(`85 Code, § 20-103) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 55.24 PLANS AND DRAWINGS.
   Architects and builders are required, when drawing plans and specifications,
to make provisions for channeling and picketing all buildings for electrical
conductors as may be required by the Utility Superintendent and to state
definitely in such specifications and mark on all such plans the location of
all switches (except main line switch and cut out) and state the maximum number
of lamps at each outlet, provided such plans and specifications are in
accordance with all rules and requirements of this chapter. Architects and
builders are required to furnish such plans and specifications for proposed
work as may be deemed necessary by the Utility Superintendent before any permit
for the same shall be issued.
(`85 Code, § 20-104)
§ 55.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All persons engaged in the business of installing electrical wires or
appliances inside of any building within the corporate limits of the town shall
first procure from the Town Clerk a license, except public telephone, televue
and emergency call companies operating under regular franchise granted by the
town may have the right to install their own apparatus. Provided, further, that
before such license shall be granted the person, there shall be deposited with
the Clerk the amount hereinafter stated as payment for the license, and the
bond hereinafter required shall be duly given and approved by the President of
the Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 20-105)
§ 55.26 BOND REQUIRED.
   All persons, firms or corporations desiring to do electrical wiring in or on
any building (except public telephone, televue and emergency call company
buildings operating under a special franchise granted by the town) within the
town shall give a good and sufficient surety bond in the sum of $5,000, to be
approved by the President of the Board of Trustees, and running in favor of the
town, which may be sued upon by the town or any person whose person or property
is damaged by such licensee applying for electrical license and doing such
work, conditioned that the installation of all electrical wiring, fixtures and
appliances shall be done in accordance with the requirements of this chapter,
and further that such licensee shall remedy any defect or faulty work caused by
any incompetent worker or by the using of inferior or nonstandard material and
for the faithful compliance by the licensee of the ordinances of the town.
(`85 Code, § 20-106)
§ 55.27 LICENSE ISSUED.
   Electrical licenses shall grant the holder thereof the right and privilege
to engage in the business of electrical wiring within the town, subject to the
provisions of this chapter, for a period of one year and will be issued upon
the giving of the bond required and the payment of the annual license fee of $5
payable in advance; and before any license is granted, the person applying for
the same shall have an electrical license issued by the state, provided all
licenses shall expire on the first day of January following their issuance.
(`85 Code, § 20-107)
§ 55.28 DEFECTS CORRECTED, PERMITS REFUSED, LICENSE REVOKED.
   Any person engaged in the business of electrical wiring who shall fail to
comply promptly with any order or orders made by the Utility Superintendent
respecting corrections to be made, either to new or old work, shall be denied
any further or additional permits until such order or orders have been fully
complied with. The Utility Superintendent and the Board of Trustees shall
revoke the electrical license of any person who performs any electrical wiring
in the town without first having obtained a permit therefor, as herein
provided.
(`85 Code, § 20-108)
§ 55.29 SECTIONS OF WORK INSPECTED.
   On business blocks, hotels and apartment houses, an inspection will be made
of different sections of the work at the discretion of the Inspection
Department in order not to delay the other work in connection with the
construction of the building.
(`85 Code, § 20-109)
§ 55.30 STEEL CONDUITS.
   All electrical wiring hereafter installed, including extension or changes in
existing wires, in or on buildings located within the fire limits of the town,
shall be installed in approved iron or steel conduits.
(`85 Code, § 20-110)
§ 55.31 OTHER QUESTIONS DECIDED.
   The Utility Superintendent shall decide all questions not provided for in
this chapter pertaining to the installation or maintenance of electrical wires
and apparatus and his or her decisions with reference thereto shall be final.
(`85 Code, § 20-111)
§ 55.32 EXCAVATIONS.
   Nothing herein shall be construed as granting permission for excavation in
the streets, alleys or sidewalks or other public grounds of the town without
full compliance with all laws or ordinances of the town governing excavations.
(`85 Code, § 20-112)
§ 55.33 SUSPENSION OF WIRE; STRINGING.
   The Utility Superintendent, or designated employee, shall supervise the
placing of all telephone, televue or electric poles and the stringing and
attaching of all wires thereto, and same shall be so placed that they will not
create a fire hazard or endanger the life or property of any person.
(`85 Code, § 20-113)
§ 55.34 CONDEMNATION OF WIRING.
   Whenever any electric wiring or other electrical apparatus becomes unsafe,
defective or insecure, the Utility Superintendent shall notify the owner in
writing to repair or remove the same, and upon the owner’s failure so to do
within 24 hours or within such time as the Utility Superintendent may deem
necessary, the Utility Superintendent shall cause service to be disconnected.
(`85 Code, § 20-114)
§ 55.35 OVERHEAD ELECTRIC WIRES.
   The Utility Superintendent may designate in the town the distance between
the overhead electric wires, cables and conductors of any company, firm or
corporation and may regulate the direction in which the wires, cables or
conductors shall be run for any purpose from fixtures upon any building or at
point of entering in a building for service, and any company, firm, corporation
or individual owning, operating or maintaining any wires, cables or conductors
over any building in the town shall, notwithstanding any agreement to the
contrary, keep the wires, cable or conductors at least eight feet above the
highest part of the roof of the buildings and shall keep and maintain any
construction placed upon any building for the support of any wire, cable or
conduit to the satisfaction of the Utility Superintendent.
(`85 Code, § 20-115)
§ 55.36 DEAD WIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Utility Superintendent to cause all dead wires,
unused poles, electric signs or electric apparatus on the outside of buildings
or in the stores or alleys to be removed at the expense of the owner of the
wires, poles or apparatus by giving the owner or owners or their agents ten
days written notice, and if the owner or owners or their agents notice has been
given, the owner or owners or agents shall be guilty of a violation of this
chapter and an offense. Each days continuance of the conditions shall
constitute and be a separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 20-116) Penalty, see §
50.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING, STOPPING AND LOADING
      
73.   SPECIALTY VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Oklahoma Highway Traffic Safety Code adopted
   
70.002   Citation tags; failure to comply
   
70.003   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.004   Duties of police officers and firefighters
   
70.005   Accident reports; leaving an accident scene
   
70.006   Obedience to provisions
   
70.007   Public officials and employees
   
70.008   Necessity of signs
   
70.009   Equipment, licensing and inspection of vehicles
   
70.010   Inspection of vehicles
   
70.011   Construction zones
   
70.012   Persons working on streets
Impoundment of Vehicles
   
70.025   Purpose and effect of impoundment
   
70.026   Place of impoundment
   
70.027   Duration of impoundment
   
70.028   Redemption and release of vehicle
   
70.029   Authority to impound vehicle
   
70.030   Causes for impoundment
Vehicle and Equipment Prohibitions
   
70.045   Injurious or obstructive vehicles or objects
   
70.046   Size and weight of vehicles; truck routes
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.060   Installation of devices
   
70.061   Specifications for traffic-control devices
   
70.062   Turn signs and indicators
   
70.063   Designation and marking of one-way streets
   
70.064   Marking of traffic lanes
   
70.065   Designation and marking of crosswalks
   
70.066   Unauthorized signs or devices
   
70.067   Classification of streets
Motor Vehicle Security Verification
   
70.080   Security verification required; exemptions
   
70.081   Definitions
   
70.082   Possession of security verification form while operating or using
certain vehicles required
   
70.083   Failure to maintain security an offense
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 OKLAHOMA HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Oklahoma Highway Traffic Safety Code (O.S. Title 47, as amended,
and every ten years recodification thereof) is adopted and incorporated in the
code of ordinances of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, as if set out at length
herein for the purposes of establishing locally appropriate rules and
regulations for the control of traffic within said municipality.
   (B)   The definitions of words used in this title shall be the same as those
definitions in 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 through 1-186 (as amended).
(`85 Code, § 22-1)
§ 70.002 CITATION TAGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Police officers are authorized to give notice to persons violating
provisions of this title by delivering citation tags to violators or, in cases
where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation of this
title, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the violation
occurred. The citation tags shall indicate briefly the charge, shall bear the
registration number of the vehicle and shall direct the violator to present the
tag at the police station or other designated place within five days or such
other reasonable time as may be specified thereon. Nothing in this section
shall abridge the power to arrest any violator, to take him or her into custody
or to file a complaint against him or her at any time.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may require that police officers use
serially-numbered citation tags furnished by the Town Clerk.
   (C)   If a violator of any provision of this title who has been given a
citation tag as provided above fails to appear in accordance with the
instruction of such tag, the Chief of Police or his or her authorized agent
shall send a letter or other written notice to the owner of the vehicle
involved, informing him or her of the violation, warning him or her to appear
and directing that, in the event such letter or notice is disregarded for a
period of five days, a complaint will be filed and a warrant of arrest issued;
provided that nothing in this section shall abridge the power to file a
complaint against him or her prior to the expiration of such time.
   (D)   In the event any person fails to comply with a citation tag given to
such person or attached to a vehicle, the Chief of Police shall have a
complaint entered against such person before the Municipal Judge, and the Judge
shall issue a warrant for his or her arrest.
(`85 Code, § 22-7)
§ 70.003 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of a law
or ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm may
exercise the following privileges:
      (1)   Park or stand (irrespective of the provisions of this chapter);
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or sign (slowing down as may be
necessary for safe operation);
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   (B)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of audible and/or
visual signals, except that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a
police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light visible from
the front of the vehicle.
   (C)   Upon the immediate approach of any authorized emergency vehicle making
required use of audible and/or visual signals or of a police vehicle properly
and lawfully making use of an audible signal, only the driver of every other
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel
to and as close as possible to the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear
of any intersection or shall clear the roadway in the safest possible manner
and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency
vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (D)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from
the consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(`85 Code, § 22-8)
§ 70.004 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and any police officers to
enforce the traffic regulations of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, and all of
the state vehicle laws applicable to traffic in said municipality, to make
arrests for traffic violations, to investigate accidents, to cooperate with
other municipal officials in the administration of the traffic laws and in
developing ways to improve traffic conditions and to carry out those duties
specifically imposed upon the officers by this title and any other traffic or
related ordinances of said municipality.
   (B)   The Chief of Police and his or her assistants are authorized to direct
all traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws and
ordinances. In the event of a fire, other emergency or to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, such officers may direct traffic as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   (C)   Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist the
police in directing traffic.
(`85 Code, § 22-9)
§ 70.005 ACCIDENT REPORTS; LEAVING AN ACCIDENT SCENE.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle
or other property to an apparent extent of more than $50 shall as soon as
practicable report such accident to the Chief of Police or to the Police
Department. Making out a written report of the accident in the Police
Department, as soon as practicable after the accident (to be forwarded to the
State Department of Public Safety in accordance with the law), shall be deemed
compliance with this section.
   (B)   Leaving the scene of an accident, as defined by current state law,
shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the town.
(`85 Code, § 22-11) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.006 OBEDIENCE TO PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to authorize
or knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his, her or its name to be
driven or be parked in violation of any provision of this title.
   (B)   The parent or guardian of any child or ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this title.
(`85 Code, § 22-110) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.007 PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States Government and any state,
county, municipal or other governmental unit or agency as well as to other
vehicles; it shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title by state
laws.
   (B)   This title shall not apply to the military forces of the United States
and organizations of the National Guard when performing military duty.
(`85 Code, § 22-111) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.008 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   No provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
(`85 Code, § 22-112)
§ 70.009 EQUIPMENT, LICENSING AND INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which is not equipped as
required by law upon any street within the town. It shall also be unlawful to
fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, use it in a manner
prohibited by law or to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law
upon any street within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of
the town, unless such vehicle is licensed and displays a valid license plate
thereon, as required by state law.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle, or any combination of
such vehicles licensed by the Oklahoma Tax Commission, unless the vehicle or
vehicles bear a valid, official state inspection sticker issued by an official
inspection station licensed by the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety,
provided that such sticker is required by current state law.
(`85 Code, § 22-113) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.010 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon
streets of the town at any time with reasonable cause to determine whether it
is safe, properly equipped and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment
and repair.
(`85 Code, § 22-114)
§ 70.011 CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   Municipal personnel, contractors or utility companies, while repairing
or improving the streets of the town, or when installing, improving or
repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are authorized,
subject to control by the Town Board of Trustees, to close any street, or
section thereof, to traffic during such activity and shall erect, or cause to
be erected, proper control devices and barricades to warn the public that such
street has been closed to traffic.
   (B)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) of this section and traffic-control devices or barricades have
been erected, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle under,
over, around or through such traffic-control devices or barricades or otherwise
to enter the closed area (except that the provisions of this section shall not
apply to persons while engaged in such construction, maintenance and repair to
persons entering therein for the protection of lives or property or to persons
having their places of residence or business within such closed area, who may
travel through such area at their own risk).
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street, utility
line or facility is being performed, and the street is not closed to traffic in
accord with this section, the municipal personnel, contractor or utility
company concerned shall erect warning devices for the public. Every person
using such street shall obey such warning devices.
(`85 Code, § 22-116) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.012 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS.
   (A)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title,
except those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall
not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street or to persons, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair
of public utilities, provided that all highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flagmen.
   (B)   However, the provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and
vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(`85 Code, § 22-117)
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
§ 70.025 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this subchapter
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety, welfare and safeguarding of property and shall be used generally
for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and abatement of
public nuisance existing from traffic law violations, protection of the public
rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares in the town from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(`85 Code, § 22-25)
§ 70.026 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safekeeping designated
by the Town Board of Trustees and shall not be removed to any other place.
(`85 Code, § 22-26)
§ 70.027 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided hereinafter, any vehicle impounded under the
provisions of this code of ordinances shall be stored and held safely until a
written order for its release, signed by the Chief of Police (or his or her
designated representative) has been issued.
   (B)   The written order for release shall be conditioned upon:
      (1)   Payment of all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges
assessed against the vehicle by the person to whom the release is issued; and
      (2)   Payment of all fines and costs due the town because of traffic law
or other law violations involving the vehicle or proper security posted for the
fine or law violation.
(`85 Code, § 22-27)
§ 70.028 REDEMPTION AND RELEASE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   The person holding the written order for release shall be entitled to
obtain possession of the vehicle upon presentation of the order for release at
the place of impoundment, together with payment (or tender of payment) of all
impoundment costs and accrued storage charges due.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized to release vehicles which have been
impounded (and accept agreements and bonds to save the town harmless by such
releases) to persons other than the registered owner of the vehicle.
   (C)   Any party claiming an interest in an impounded vehicle shall submit
(by written instruments on other documents) to the Chief of Police proof of
compliance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Proof of interest;
      (2)   Agreement to save and hold harmless the town and all of its
employees; and
      (3)   Proof of financial responsibility showing the net worth of the
party seeking the vehicle to be in excess of $20,000 or a surety bond in an
amount no less than double the value of the vehicle sought to be released.
(`85 Code, § 22-28)
§ 70.029 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the town and members of the Municipal Police
Department are authorized, within the limits set forth in this chapter, to
impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated.
   (B)   No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an authorized
police officer and in strict adherence to the procedures established in this
subchapter and by other policies of the town.
(`85 Code, § 22-29)
§ 70.030 CAUSES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway;
      (2)   If left unattended longer than 48 hours on the shoulder of any
highway; or
      (3)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   (B)   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct, causeway or
within the structure of a grade separation may be impounded.
   (C)   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest, taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leave, or will leave, a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the
vehicle may be impounded.
   (D)   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and
so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
   (E)   When any derelict vehicle is discovered by the Police Department to
have been parked upon any street in the town for a period of 48 hours or more,
the Police Department is authorized to impound the vehicle, and if the owner of
the vehicle may be ascertained by reasonable diligence, the owner shall be
notified of the action by the Police Department.
   (F)   Any unattended vehicle parked at the street curbing of any zone where
parking is prohibited and where official signs are in place giving notice
thereof in violation of the prohibition may be impounded.
   (G)   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire
escape, ladder or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
   (H)   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection
shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in
charge of the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and
to the nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
   (I)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time, not exceeding eight hours, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identification in
the vehicle (or form records or information available from reports of stolen
cars), the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of
impoundment and the registered owner of the vehicle notified of the location of
the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department. If the
registered owner is identified, located and notified of the recovery of the
stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his or her own
arrangements for the removal of the vehicle within a period of 24 hours from
the time he or she is actually notified of its recovery; if the owner is unable
or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified, the vehicle may
be impounded.
(`85 Code, § 22-30)
VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT PROHIBITIONS
§ 70.045 INJURIOUS OR OBSTRUCTIVE VEHICLES OR OBJECTS.
   (A)   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure any street
within the town shall be driven or moved on any street within said
municipality.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle which is in such condition, so
constructed or so loaded as to cause or be likely to cause a delay in traffic
or constitute a hazard to persons or property without having obtained a permit
from the office of the Town Clerk.
(`85 Code, § 22-35)
§ 70.046 SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES; TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle, the
width, height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state
laws, except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees has prescribed routes through the
municipality for the use of trucks in general or trucks of particular kinds
and/or other vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger vehicles passing
through the town. Truck routes are Mountain Avenue, Windle Street, Main Street,
Cox Street, Ada Street and Ann Street.
   (C)   The Town Board of Trustees shall see that appropriate and adequate
signs are placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow
the routes. When such signs are erected and in place, the driver of a truck or
other vehicle for which a route has been so prescribed, while passing through
the town, shall keep on such route and shall not deviate therefrom, except in
case of emergency.
(`85 Code, § 22-36)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.060 INSTALLATION OF DEVICES.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall have traffic-control signs, signals and
devices placed and maintained, when and as required under the ordinances of the
town, to make the provisions of such ordinances effective.
(`85 Code, § 22-45)
§ 70.061 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the Oklahoma State Highway Department. All signs
and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the municipality.
All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions
of state law or this title shall be official traffic-control devices.
(`85 Code, § 22-46)
§ 70.062 TURN SIGNS AND INDICATORS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is authorized to determine those
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-
turn and shall have placed proper signs at such intersections. The making of
such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at
other hours, in which event, the same shall be plainly indicated on said signs.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
   (C)   Unless otherwise indicated by such signs, a right turn on red or stop
shall be permitted after the vehicle has come to a complete stop.
(`85 Code, § 22-47)
§ 70.063 DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Whenever the Town Board of Trustees designates any street, alley or part
thereof as a one-way street or alley, the Town Board shall have signs placed
giving notice thereof. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
(`85 Code, § 22-48)
§ 70.064 MARKING OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is authorized to have traffic lanes marked
upon the roadway of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
   (B)   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lanes, except when lawfully passing another vehicle,
preparing to make a lawful turning movement or as otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
(`85 Code, § 22-49) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.065 DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF CROSSWALKS.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall have the authority to designate, by
appropriate devices or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at
intersections or other places where, in its opinion, there is particular danger
to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(`85 Code, § 22-50)
§ 70.066 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS OR DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway an unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic- control device or railroad
sign or signal which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, which projects
any flashing or revolving beams of light or which hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any railroad
sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign, signal or device bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the placement, upon
private property, of signs giving useful directional information and of a type
that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is declared to
be a public nuisance, and the Town Board of Trustees is empowered to remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
(`85 Code, § 22-51)
§ 70.067 CLASSIFICATION OF STREETS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees may adopt (by resolution) a street
classification system for the town. Whenever such a system is adopted, it shall
be the duty of the Town Board to have stop signs placed and maintained, or if
deemed more appropriate at any intersection, yield signs, on each and every
street involved in the implementation of the classification system (unless
traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control
signals).
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees is authorized to determine and designate
intersections where a particular hazard exists and to determine:
      (1)   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place where a stop is required; or
      (2)   Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection; in which event, it shall cause to be
erected a yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
   (C)   Every stop and yield sign shall be erected as near as practicable to
the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the nearest line of the
intersecting roadway.
(`85 Code, § 22-52)
MOTOR VEHICLE SECURITY VERIFICATION
§ 70.080 SECURITY VERIFICATION REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating
the vehicle within the town’s boundaries shall carry in such vehicle at all
times a current owner’s security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been issued by the Oklahoma Department of Public
Safety, which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for
inspection by any law enforcement officer and in case of a collision. The form
shall be shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   (B)   The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or operator’s
security verification form or an equivalent form from the Oklahoma Department
of Public Safety during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to
surrender such form for vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law according to records of the Oklahoma Department of
Public Safety, which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance or fleet policy;
      (3)   Any vehicle authorized for operation under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the Oklahoma Corporation Commission;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed used motor vehicle dealer.
(`85 Code, § 22-100)
§ 70.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the
operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in O.S. Title 47, Chapter
7, Article VI.
   OPERATOR’S POLICY. An operator’s policy of liability insurance shall insure
the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him or her by law
for damages arising out of the operation or use by him or her of any motor
vehicle not owned by him or her, subject to the same limits of liability
required in an owner’s policy.
   OWNER’S POLICY. An owner’s policy of liability insurance:
      (1)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      (2)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection (3) below, using an insured vehicle with the
express or implied permission of the named insured against the loss from the
liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership, maintenance,
operation or use of such vehicle;
      (3)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing laws; and
      (4)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
   SECURITY. This term means:
      (1)   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
      (2)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
      (3)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM.  A form, approved by the State Board for
Property and Casualty Rates, verifying the existence of security required by
the Compulsory Insurance Law of the State of Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 22-101)
§ 70.082 POSSESSION OF SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM WHILE OPERATING OR USING
CERTAIN VEHICLES REQUIRED.
   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall, while
operating or using such vehicle within the town’s boundaries, carry either an
operator’s or an owner’s security verification form issued by a carrier,
providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an equivalent
form issued by the Department of Public Safety, reflecting liability coverage.
(`85 Code, § 22-102)
§ 70.083 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN SECURITY AN OFFENSE.
   (A)   Any owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety upon request of any peace officer of
the Granite Police Department shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   (C)   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the Oklahoma
Department of Public Safety reflecting this liability coverage for such person
was in force at the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal
of such charge.
   (D)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the Court
Clerk shall forward an abstract to the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety
within ten days reflecting the action taken by the court.
(`85 Code, § 22-103)
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title,
performs any unlawful act as defined in this title or fails to perform any act
required in this title shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this code; each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 22-135)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Town Board may adopt and enforce regulations
   
71.02   Speed regulations
   
71.03   Stopped school bus
   
71.04   Driving by unauthorized persons prohibited
   
71.05   Reckless driving
   
71.06   Driving under the influence
   
71.07   Vehicles not to be driven on sidewalk
   
71.08   Following too closely
   
71.09   Backing
   
71.10   Pedestrians
   
71.11   Motorcycles
   
71.12   Riding upon or clinging to vehicles
   
71.13   Dangerous objects in streets
   
71.14   Funerals
   
71.15   Eluding a police officer
   
71.16   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
71.17   Crossing fire hose
   
71.18   Obstruction of driver’s view
   
71.19   Noise control upon braking or slowing
§ 71.01 TOWN BOARD MAY ADOPT AND ENFORCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is empowered to adopt and enforce
regulations necessary to make the provisions of this title and any other
traffic or related ordinances of the town effective and to adopt and enforce
temporary regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions.
   (B)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of the Chief of Police, any police officer, firefighter or
any other authorized municipal employee.
(`85 Code, § 22-5)
§ 71.02 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on any street within the corporate
limits of the town at a speed greater or less than is reasonable or prudent
under the conditions then existing (including, among other things, the
condition of the vehicle, roadway, weather, visibility, amount of traffic,
presence of pedestrians and any obstruction of view).
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a street at a speed greater
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
(`85 Code, § 22-6 (part)) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.03 STOPPED SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   No person shall pass any school bus (as defined by state law) when
such bus is stopped for the purpose of discharging or taking on passengers and
is displaying flashing red lights as required by state law.
   (B)   All persons shall stop upon approaching a stopped school bus (as
described in division (A) of this section) regardless of the direction of said
approach.
(`85 Code, § 22-10) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.04 DRIVING BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not have a valid driver’s
license, as required by state law, to operate a motor vehicle within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit an
unlicensed driver to operate a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to authorize, or
knowingly permit, any vehicle owned by him or her or under his or her control
to be driven upon any of the streets or highways of the town by any person who
is not authorized, under the laws of the State of Oklahoma, to operate such
vehicle.
(`85 Code, § 22-12) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.05 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle within the
corporate limits of the town in a careless, negligent or reckless manner
without regard for the safety of persons, property or the lawful use of the
streets; such person shall be guilty of reckless driving.
(`85 Code, § 22-13) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.06 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the influence of alcoholic
beverages, narcotic drugs or other controlled, dangerous substances to drive or
be in actual physical control of any vehicle within the corporate limits of the
town.
(`85 Code, § 22-14) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.07 VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not drive upon any sidewalk or sidewalk
area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(`85 Code, § 22-15)
§ 71.08 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both vehicles and
the traffic upon and the condition of the roadway.
(`85 Code, § 22-16)
§ 71.09 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same a greater distance
than is necessary to permit it to enter the immediately available proper
driving lane; no extended backing shall be permitted.
(`85 Code, § 22-17)
§ 71.10 PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Application. Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals,
but, at all other places, shall be granted those rights and be subject to those
restrictions in this section.
(`85 Code, § 22-90)
   (B)   Regulations.
      (1)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if
need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave any place of safety and walk or
run into the path of a vehicle.
      (3)   No children shall play in or on any public street.
      (4)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(`85 Code, § 22-91)
   (C)   Drivers to exercise due care. Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) of
this section, every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid
colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway, shall give warning by sounding
the horn where necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing
any child or confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(`85 Code, § 22-92)
§ 71.11 MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter or motor bicycle shall ride
only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto and shall not carry
any other person, nor shall any other person ride on the vehicle, unless it is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event, a passenger may ride
only upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons or upon
another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
(`85 Code, § 22-115)
§ 71.12 RIDING UPON OR CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride upon any vehicle or portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or person riding within
truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
   (B)   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(`85 Code, § 22-118)
§ 71.13 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, cause to be placed or let fall
and remain in or upon any street any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass, stick or
other thing which is likely to injure persons, damage property or render a
street unsafe for traffic.
(`85 Code, § 22-119) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.14 FUNERALS.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic-control signals or police officers.
(`85 Code, § 22-120)
§ 71.15 ELUDING A POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any operator of a motor vehicle who
has received a visual and/or an audible signal (red light and/or a siren) from
a police officer driving a motor vehicle, with insignia showing the same to be
an official police, sheriff or Highway Patrol car, directing the operator to
bring his or her vehicle to a stop, to willfully increase his or her speed or
extinguish his or her lights in an attempt to elude such police officer, to
willfully attempt, in any other manner, to elude the police officer or to elude
such police officer.
(`85 Code, § 22-121) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.16 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than when on official business, shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(`85 Code, § 22-122)
§ 71.17 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of any Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(`85 Code, § 22-123)
§ 71.18 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are, in the front seat, such a number of persons exceeding three as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(`85 Code, § 22-124)
§ 71.19 NOISE CONTROL UPON BRAKING OR SLOWING.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle, including but not limited to motor
carriers, trucks, semi-trailers and tractor trailers, shall not cause his or
her vehicle to brake or slow by any method which increases the noise emission
levels of the engine, including but not limited to the method commonly known as
JAKE BRAKING, wherein engine compression is used to slow the vehicle in lieu of
applying the clutch or brakes.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be a violation of the traffic
regulations of the town, and fines and penalties for violations shall be set in
the same manner as those for traffic regulations.
   (C)   Notice of these regulations shall be posted at the corporate town
limits.
(Ord. 216, passed 6-23-03) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 72: PARKING, STOPPING AND LOADING
Section
   
72.01   Stopping or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.02   Angle parking
   
72.03   Standing or parking close to curb; brakes
   
72.04   Parking on private property
   
72.05   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
72.06   Loading zones
§ 72.01 STOPPING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law, ordinance, the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device or in an emergency
situation in any of the following places:
      (1)   On any sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of or obstructing any driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant (except in an officially-marked
parking space);
      (5)   Within or on a crosswalk;
      (6)   Near any street work or excavation when stopping or parking would
obstruct traffic;
      (7)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street (double parking or double-stopping);
      (8)   In any alley where less than ten feet of the roadway will be left
available for the movement of vehicular traffic; or
      (9)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees is authorized to establish parking time
limits and to prohibit parking on designated streets and parts of streets by
having appropriate signs placed thereon.
   (C)   Parking large trucks or semi-trailers on streets or on street rights-
of-way in residential areas shall be prohibited.
(`85 Code, § 22-65)
§ 72.02 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall determine upon what streets and parts
of streets angle parking shall be permitted and shall have such streets marked
or signed.
   (B)   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings or outside of
the area enclosed by said markings.
(`85 Code, § 22-66)
§ 72.03 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB; BRAKES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are curbs shall be so stopped or parked with
the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within 18 inches of the
right-hand curb, provided that every vehicle stopped or parked upon the left-
hand side of a one-way street with the left-hand wheels parallel to and within
18 inches of the left- hand curb.
   (B)   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles.
(`85 Code, § 22-67)
§ 72.04 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or park a motor vehicle or a trailer
upon the posted private property of another without first obtaining permission
from the person in charge of such property, except where the placing or parking
is involuntary.
   (B)   A landowner, or other person in charge of the land, may cause any
motor vehicle or trailer which is left on private property after posted hours
to be removed and impounded by an appropriate wrecker service. The town, any
landowner or person in charge of the property shall not be liable for any
damages which may occur to the trespassing vehicle or trailer under the terms
of this section, while the same is trespassing, while it is being removed from
his or her property or while it is in storage.
(`85 Code, § 22-68) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.05 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of such parking, the registered owner of such vehicle shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
   (B)   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure
of giving a citation tag has been followed.
(`85 Code, § 22-69)
§ 72.06 LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is authorized to determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall have appropriate signs
placed, indicating the same and stating the hours during which the provisions
of this section are applicable. By the same authority, such loading zones may
be changed or discontinued.
   (B)   When such a loading zone is established upon the request of any
person, firm or corporation, the Town Board of Trustees shall not have signs
placed until the applicant has paid to the Town Clerk an amount of money
estimated by the Town Board to be adequate to reimburse the town for all costs
of establishing and signing the same.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
(`85 Code, § 22-70)
CHAPTER 73: SPECIALTY VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Description
   
73.02   Traffic laws applicable to persons riding specialty vehicles
   
73.03   Equipment
   
73.04   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
73.05   Operating or riding specialty vehicles
§ 73.01 DESCRIPTION.
   Specialty vehicles include bicycles, golf cars and other motorized, two-
seated vehicles rated at or below 25 hp.
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE TO PERSONS RIDING SPECIALTY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Every person operating a specialty vehicle upon a roadway shall be
granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this state declaring the rules of the
road applicable to vehicles or by the ordinances of the town applicable to the
driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this title and to
those provisions of laws or ordinances which, by their nature, can have no
application.
(`85 Code, § 22-80)
   (B)   Motorized specialty vehicles may not be operated on state highways and
may only be allowed on town streets during daylight hours.
   (C)   The operator of a motorized specialty vehicle must be 16 years of age
or older.
§ 73.03 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Vehicles in use during hours of darkness shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible to 500 feet and a red
reflector on the rear visible at 300 feet.
(`85 Code, § 22-81)
   (B)   All four-wheeled vehicles will have a triangle warning permanently
mounted on the rear of the vehicle.
§ 73.04 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a specialty vehicle shall obey the instructions
of official traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable
to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Wherever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a vehicle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the vehicle
to make any such turn; in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(`85 Code, § 22-82)
§ 73.05 OPERATING OR RIDING SPECIALTY VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be used to carry more persons at a time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (B)   Whenever a usable path for specialty vehicles has been provided
adjacent to a roadway, operators shall use such path and not the roadway.
   (C)   No person shall operate a vehicle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall yield the right-of- way to all approaching pedestrians and upon entering
a roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
   (E)   No person shall operate or ride a vehicle on any sidewalk.
   (F)   The Town Board of Trustees is authorized to have signs placed on any
traffic-way prohibiting specialty vehicles thereon; when such signs are in
place, no person shall disobey the same.
(`85 Code, § 22-83)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed regulations
SCHEDULE I. SPEED REGULATIONS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle, except an authorized emergency vehicle
(as provided in this title), at a speed greater than:
   (A)   The posted school speed limit on any street adjacent to any school or
in any school zone between 7:30 a.m. and 4 p.m. on days when school is in
session;
   (B)   Thirty-five miles per hour on Windle Street from First Street to
Mountain Avenue, then eastward on Mountain Avenue to curve on Highway #6;
   (C)   Twenty-five miles per hour on other streets and on streets adjacent to
schools at other times than that specified immediately above, unless otherwise
posted.
(`85 Code, § 22-6 (part)) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking restriction
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn the
vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction for the purpose of parking
on the opposite side of the street.   
   (B)   This prohibition is limited to turn around parking in the 300 and 400
blocks of North Main Street in the town.
(Ord. 182, passed 6-13-88)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
94.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
97.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Contents of fair housing ordinance
§ 90.01 CONTENTS OF FAIR HOUSING ORDINANCE.
   The Trustees of the town passed and approved a Fair Housing Ordinance on
September 25, 1989, which ordinance provided for a policy of the town to
provide fair housing throughout the town; defined certain subjects; provided
for unlawful practice; set standards for discrimination in the sale or rental
of housing, in financing of housing and in the provision of brokerage services;
provided for exemptions; provided for administration, required education and
conciliations; provided for enforcement, investigations, subpoenas and the
giving of evidence; provided for enforcement by private persons, described
interference, coercion or intimidation; provided for separability of
provisions; called for prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases; and
repealed all ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict therewith; and
declaring an emergency.
(Ord. 188, passed 9-25-89)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
   
91.01   Cemetery created
   
91.02   Control of cemetery
   
91.03   Superintendent
   
91.04   Secretary; duties
   
91.05   Permits
   
91.06   Lot or burial space purchased
   
91.07   Permits from Secretary of the cemetery
   
91.08   Cemetery lots
   
91.09   Improvements
   
91.10   Potters field
   
91.11   Driving vehicles
   
91.12   Marks; repairs and the like
   
91.13   Molesting property
   
91.14   Interring without permit unlawful
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 CEMETERY CREATED.
   A cemetery for the burial of the human dead of the town is established in
the northwest corner of the southwest quarter of Section 6 in Township 5 North,
Range 20 West of the Indian Meridian and the interment of the human dead within
the corporate limits of the town is prohibited.
(`85 Code, § 6-1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 CONTROL OF CEMETERY.
   The Board of Trustees shall have control and general supervision over the
City Cemetery and shall appoint a Superintendent of the cemetery and all other
necessary employees for the cemetery.
(`85 Code, § 6-2)
§ 91.03 SUPERINTENDENT.
   There is created the office of Superintendent of the Cemetery, who shall
have such powers and duties as prescribed by ordinance or resolution of the
Board of Trustees and still receive such salary and fees as may be provided by
resolution of the Board of Trustees and these ordinances.
(`85 Code, § 6-3)
§ 91.04 SECRETARY; DUTIES.
   The Town Clerk shall be ex officio Secretary of the Cemetery, and his or her
duties as such shall be at all times subject to the Board of Trustees. He or
she shall sell all lots and collect all moneys belonging to the Cemetery Fund,
keep a separate account thereof, issue permits for the burial of the dead to
the Superintendent of the cemetery and keep a record of the names of such dead
and the places where all portions are interred in the cemetery and the date
thereof.
(`85 Code, § 6-4)
§ 91.05 PERMITS.
   The Superintendent shall not allow the interment or other disposition of any
body in the cemetery unless it is accompanied by a burial, removal or transit
permit as provided by the statutes and laws of the state and permits from the
Secretary of the cemetery and the Secretary of the Board of Health as provided
by the ordinances of the town.
(`85 Code, § 6-5)
§ 91.06 LOT OR BURIAL SPACE PURCHASED.
   Before any body shall be buried within the confines of the cemetery, a lot
or burial space shall be purchased from the town and a deed issued, setting
forth any and all restrictions which may be deemed necessary for the proper
maintenance of the space or lot, and the Town Clerk is authorized to execute a
good and valid deed to any lot within the cemetery not occupied after payment
of the sale price to him or her. No person may re-sell, assign or convey any
space or lot owned by him or her, unless such sale is authorized by the Town
Clerk in writing.
(`85 Code, § 6-6)
§ 91.07 PERMIT FROM SECRETARY OF THE CEMETERY.
   When any person shall desire an interment to be made in the cemetery, notice
thereof must be given to the Secretary of the cemetery and application for a
permit for such interment stating the name of the person to be interred.
(`85 Code, § 6-7)
§ 91.08 CEMETERY LOTS.
   All cemetery lots shall be surveyed and sold under the direction of the
Board of Trustees for such price as the Board may by resolution require.
(`85 Code, § 6-8)
§ 91.09 IMPROVEMENTS.
   All plans for improvement of lots by the proprietors or owners thereof shall
be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval, and no such improvements
shall in any event be made without such written approval of the Board.
(`85 Code, § 6-9)
§ 91.10 POTTERS FIELD.
   There shall be maintained under the supervision of the Superintendent a
portion of the cemetery for the interment of deceased persons whose relatives
are unable to purchase grave spaces which shall be known as the Potters Field.
(`85 Code, § 6-10)
§ 91.11 DRIVING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicles over any part of
the cemetery except the streets of the cemetery.
(`85 Code, § 6-11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 MARKS; REPAIRS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be the duty of the proprietors or owners of the lots to keep in
repair permanent markers, stone, and memorials in the boundaries of their lots.
Stones allowed only at the foot of a grave must be flat. The stone at the foot
of a grave must be flat. No more than two stones per grave space.
(`85 Code, § 6-12)
§ 91.13 MOLESTING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, molest or damage any tree,
shrub, plants or growing flowers within the cemetery unless by special
permission of the Superintendent, and no flowers shall be picked at any time.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mar, move or otherwise damage or
alter any markers, coping, monument or vault unless by special permission of
the Superintendent.
(`85 Code, § 6-13) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 INTERRING WITHOUT PERMIT UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to inter any body in the cemetery
without first having obtained the permits provided in the ordinances of the
town and laws of the state and except under the direct supervision of the
Superintendent of the cemetery as provided in this chapter.
(`85 Code, § 6-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
including the provisions of any code adopted by the town, shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as
provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 6-15)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Responsibilities of owners
   
92.03   Rabies control; vaccination requirements
   
92.04   Inspections to enforce chapter
   
92.05   Zoning ordinance to prevail
Regulations
   
92.20   Licenses and tags for dogs
   
92.21   Animals not to be at large
   
92.22   Disturbances by animals; public nuisance abatement
   
92.23   Keeping animals
   
92.24   Cruelty to animals
   
92.25   Turning confined animals at large unlawful
   
92.26   Pasturing in public areas unlawful
   
92.27   Confining female dogs and cats
   
92.28   Certain dogs running loose to be killed
   
92.29   Pet shops, catteries and kennels
   
92.30   Private boarding kennels
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, whether domesticated or
wild, including but not limited to bees, birds and fowl (including parakeets),
cattle, cats, chickens, dogs, ducks, geese, goats, horses, livestock of all
types, mammals (including elephants), rabbits, all reptiles, rodents, sheep,
swine and turkeys.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person(s) responsible for enforcement of the
town, Oklahoma’s ordinances and regulations pertaining to animal control in the
community.
   ANIMAL SHELTER or MUNICIPAL POUND. Any premises formally designated by the
Town Board of Trustees for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals
held under the authority of this chapter, regardless of whether the premises
are within or without the municipality’s corporate boundaries, and regardless
of whether the premises are under actual municipal ownership or provided for
under a contractual arrangement between the town and private owner(s).
   AT LARGE. Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under
the control of or occupied by the owner and not under the control of the owner,
a member of his or her immediate family over 12 years of age or an agent of the
owner by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner’s premises or not.
   DANGEROUS BIRDS. Any warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate which may constitute
a physical threat to human beings.
   HARBORING. Allowing any animal to habitually remain or be fed on premises
under his or her control.
   KENNEL. Any structure or place where three or more dogs over six months of
age are kept, bred or trained at any single time, or any facility designed or
built to accommodate the temporary boarding of more than five dogs over six
months of age.
   LIVESTOCK. All animals, other than dogs, cats, small caged birds or small
aquatic or amphibian animals.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an
animal; occupants of any premises to which a domesticated or tamed animal
customarily returns for a period of ten days or more shall be deemed to be
harboring or keeping the animal and thereby considered to be an OWNER of the
animal.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure, rather than utility.
   RESTRAINT. An animal shall be deemed to be under RESTRAINT if confined on
the premises of its owner, if on a leash and accompanied by a responsible
person or, in the case of a hunting dog, if accompanied by its owner engaged in
the act of hunting.
   VICIOUS DOG OR ANIMAL. Any dog or animal which has bitten or attempted to
bite any person without undue provocation or which attacks, barks or growls at
and acts as if it intended to attack or bite any person or persons when not
unduly provoked.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which can normally be found living in a naturally
wild state and is not ordinarily tamed or domesticated; also, shall include
such animals (herein above described) which may be owned by a circus or wild
animal show or exhibition.
(`85 Code, § 3-1)
§ 92.02 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS.
   In addition to any duties previously outlined, the owner of any animal shall
have the following additional responsibilities.
   (A)   Owners shall exercise proper care and control of their animals to
prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (B)   Owners shall provide proper care and treatment of their animals.
   (C)   Owners shall not abandon their animals.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal for breeding
purposes within the corporate limits of the town, except in private, enclosed
locations, entirely out of the public view or to permit any such animals to
have sexual intercourse in any place except a private, enclosed place. (This
shall not be construed as permitting the conditional keeping of any animals
otherwise prohibited or regulated by this code of ordinance.)
(`85 Code, § 3-5) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 RABIES CONTROL; VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any warm-blooded animal capable of transmitting the rabies virus
maintained or harbored at any time in the town shall be vaccinated against
rabies with an approved vaccine administered by a veterinarian who shall
maintain a record of vaccination for a period of at least three years and who
shall issue the owner of the animal a vaccination certificate (which shall be
retained by the owner until it expires and is renewed.). The failure to procure
such certificate when so requested by the Animal Control Officer shall be prima
facie evidence that such animal has not been so vaccinated.
   (B)   A identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a person
shall be promptly furnished to the Animal Control Officer and County Health
Department. The Animal Control Officer shall securely quarantine such animal
until reasonable determination has been made that the animal is not infected
with rabies. At the discretion of the Animal Control Officer, such quarantine
may be on the premises of the owner, at a veterinary hospital of the owner’s
choice (at the owner’s expense) or at the Municipal Pound or Animal Shelter. In
case of animals whose ownership is unknown, such quarantine shall be at the
Municipal Pound or Animal Shelter. The animal may be reclaimed by the owner, if
adjudged free of rabies; such owner shall then pay any related charges for
confinement.
   (C)   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or
is suspected of having rabies by a licensed veterinarian, and dies while under
such observation, the Animal Control Officer, veterinarian or other designated
person shall immediately send the necessary part of such animal to the State
Health Department for pathological examination and shall notify the proper
health officer of any reports of human contact.
   (D)   When a report gives a positive diagnosis of rabies and the County
Health Director feels that a rabies crisis may be imminent, the Health
Department may recommend to the Town Board of Trustees a city-wide quarantine;
upon the invoking of quarantine by the Town Board of Trustees, no animal shall
be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the streets, except for short
periods of exercise (under leash and control of a competent adult). During such
quarantine, no animal may be taken or removed from the town without written
permission of the Animal Control Officer.
   (E)   During such period of rabies quarantine, every animal bitten by an
animal adjudged to be rabid shall be forthwith destroyed or, at the owner’s
expense and option, shall be treated for a rabies infection by a licensed
veterinarian or held under six months quarantine by the owner in the same
manner as a female in season. The period of quarantine may be extended from
time to time.
   (F)   No person shall remove from the town any animal suspected of having
been exposed to rabies or any animal which has bitten a human, except as herein
provided. The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered
to the Animal Control Officer upon demand; the Animal Control Officer shall
direct disposition of the animal. No person shall refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction when such demand is lawfully made by the
Animal Control Officer.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or harboring any dog or
cat which is six months old or older within the corporate limits of the town to
procure a rabies vaccination certificate from a graduate licensed veterinarian
or agent authorized by the Town Board of Trustees showing that the vaccination
has been made, date of vaccination, by whom and the date when such vaccination
shall expire.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to not abide by the municipal vaccination
requirements after 15 days of residency.
(`85 Code, § 3-9) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 INSPECTIONS TO ENFORCE CHAPTER.
   (A)   The local or county health officer or any member of the Town Board of
Trustees, upon complaint of any person or on his or her own initiative, shall
inspect any structure or place wherein an animal is kept.
   (B)   The local or county health officer may issue any such reasonable order
as he or she may deem necessary to the owner of the animal to cause the animal
to be kept as provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a
nuisance.
   (C)   The local or county health officer may make a complaint before the
Municipal Judge against any person for violation of any provision of this
chapter or for any such reasonable order, but this shall not abridge the right
of others to make such complaints.
(`85 Code, § 3-14)
§ 92.05 ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL.
   In case of conflict between this chapter and the present or any future
zoning ordinance, the provisions of the zoning ordinance shall prevail and
supersede the provisions of this chapter.
(`85 Code, § 3-15)
REGULATIONS
§ 92.20 LICENSES AND TAGS FOR DOGS.
   (A)   No person, without first obtaining a written license from the Town
Clerk, shall own, keep, harbor or have custody of any dog over six months of
age.
   (B)   No license shall be required for animals temporarily brought and kept
within the town or for “seeing-eye” dogs, when such dogs are actually used to
aid blind persons.
   (C)   Licenses shall be issued only upon presentation of proof of current
vaccination for rabies, as required by this chapter.
   (D)   The owner of the dog shall, at the time of paying the license fee,
register the dog by giving the Town Clerk the name and address of the owner,
the name, breed, color and sex of the dog and such other reasonable information
as the Town Clerk may request.
   (E)   A license tax of $5 per year for every male or female dog or cat more
than six months of age is levied upon the owner of any such dog or cat kept or
harbored within the town.
   (F)   All license fees shall be paid to the Town Clerk and shall be due not
later than the first day of January each year or within one week after bringing
such an animal into the town after such date.
   (G)   The owner of any dog or cat within the corporate limits of the town
shall have the animal vaccinated for rabies as provided by §
92.03 and shall procure a license for the animal as required by this section.
The rabies vaccination certificate and the city license shall be worn by the
animal in plain view to the public.
(`85 Code, § 3-25) (Am. Ord. 193, passed 5-10-93; Am. Ord. 212, passed 3-13-00)
§ 92.21 ANIMALS NOT TO BE AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for the owner of any animal,
domestic or wild (including dogs), to permit the same to be, run at large or
trespass upon the premises of another person or be unlawfully at large at any
time within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to:
      (1)   Keep, own, harbor or possess any dog within the corporate limits of
the town without providing a substantial and secure pen in which the dog shall
be confined (which pen shall be sufficient in size that no sanitation or health
problem shall be involved); or to
      (2)   Allow a dog to be placed on an adequately-sized leash so that it
can reach or bite any person who may be using the public thoroughfares of the
town, so the dog can reach beyond the limits of the lot or premises upon which
the dog is kept and confined or so the dog may reach any person who may be
rendering necessary services to the house of such owner upon the premises where
the dog may be kept, harbored or possessed.
(`85 Code, § 3-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 DISTURBANCES BY ANIMALS; PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to keep a dog or other
animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace and quiet of
or creates a nuisance for any person or persons.
   (B)   It shall also be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or
other animal which attacks other animals or damages private or public property.
   (C)   Abatement of such public nuisances shall be handled in accordance with
the provisions of Chapter 95 of this code,”Nuisances.”
(`85 Code, § 3-3)
§ 92.23 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to keep any animals
within the corporate limits of the town, except under those conditions and
provisions which may hereinafter specifically regulate the keeping of certain
types of animals.
   (B)   If no specific provisions are listed in this code of ordinances for
keeping of a particular type of animal, the animal type shall not be kept at
all within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   No swine shall be kept within the corporate limits of the town.
   (D)   Every structure wherein any authorized animal is kept within the
corporate limits of the town shall be constructed of such material and in such
a manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and it shall be
maintained in the condition devoid of rodents and vermin and free from
objectionable odors in order to avert the creation of a nuisance to the public
health. Every such structure, if located within 200 feet of any tenement,
apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building
used for educational, religious or hospital purposes or residence (other than
that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal
is kept), shall be provided with a watertight and flytight receptacle for
manure of such size as to hold all accumulations of manure. Such receptacle
shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner as to prevent it from
being or becoming a nuisance and shall be kept covered at all times, except
when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure shall be
allowed to accumulate on such premises except in such receptacle.
   (E)   The keeping or raising of bees within the corporate limits of the town
shall be permitted only on those areas zoned for agricultural or large lot
(over two acres) residential uses and in accordance with zoning ordinance
provisions. No license or permit shall be required to keep or raise bees.
   (F)   The keeping or raising of horses, sheep, cattle and chickens (or
similar fowl) shall be permitted throughout the town as long as the premises
are in accordance with the provisions of division (D) of this section and State
and County Health Department requirements and standards. Additional
restrictions on the raising and/or keeping of horses, sheep, cattle and
chickens may be imposed by the zoning ordinance without conflicting with this
section.
   (G)   The raising of parakeets and/or other small birds or similar fowl
shall be permitted within the town, without license or permit requirements,
subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   All activities associated with the raising of parakeets shall be
completely enclosed and out of the public view;
      (2)   Premises utilized for the raising of parakeets shall be maintained
in accordance with division (D) of this section;
      (3)   All requirements of the adopted zoning ordinance shall be met.
   (H)   The raising or keeping of dangerous birds shall be permitted in
accordance with the provisions of division (D) of this section and the license
and permit requirements outlined in §
92.20, as well as any applicable provisions of the adopted zoning ordinance.
   (I)   The raising or keeping of rodents for any purpose shall be permitted
in accordance with the provisions of division (D) of this section and the
license and permit requirements outlined in §
92.20, as well as any applicable provisions of the adopted zoning ordinance.
   (J)   The raising or keeping of rabbits shall be permitted in accordance
with the provisions of division (D) of this section as well as any applicable
provisions of the adopted zoning ordinance.
   (K)   The keeping or raising of any wild animals shall be prohibited within
the town, except for those wild animals which may be under the care of
traveling shows or circuses and for which the license requirements of §
92.20 are met and a permit obtained.
   (L)   The keeping of other animals not specifically mentioned or regulated
within this chapter as pets shall be subject only to such generally applicable
provision which may exist to require the maintenance of sanitary conditions and
the avoidance of nuisance creation.
   (M)   No snakes which are poisonous in their natural state may be kept
within the corporate limits of the town, except under the conditions and
provisions of the license required for such snakes in §
92.20; it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep or
raise such snakes within the town without having met permit requirements and
obtained a permit.
(`85 Code, § 3-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly, willfully or
maliciously to:
      (1)   Pour on or apply to an animal any drug or other thing which
inflicts a pain;
      (2)   Treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner;
      (3)   Neglect an animal belonging to him or her or in his or her custody
in a cruel or inhumane manner; or
      (4)   Poison or expose to poison any dog or other animal, except a
noxious, nondomesticated animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight
between animals or to keep a house, pit or other place used for fights between
animals.
(`85 Code, § 3-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 TURNING CONFINED ANIMALS AT LARGE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which an animal
is confined (as required by ordinance) so as to turn such animal at large or to
in any other manner turn such animal at large.
(`85 Code, § 3-7) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal
on any public property (federal, state, municipal or other) without the consent
of the person owning or controlling such property.
(`85 Code, § 3-8) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 CONFINING FEMALE DOGS AND CATS.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner that such animal cannot come into contact with
another animal, except for planned breeding.
(`85 Code, § 3-10)
§ 92.28 CERTAIN DOGS RUNNING LOOSE TO BE KILLED.
   The Animal Control Officer, his or her designated representatives or any law
enforcement officer of the town shall be required to kill any dog running loose
within the corporate limits of the town which is determined by the Animal
Control Officer or law enforcement officer to be vicious or crazed and a threat
to the public health and safety and which dog is found running at large without
being restrained in a pen or on a leash (as provided by this chapter) without
keeping the dog in the Municipal Pound for a period of three days. The Animal
Control Officer shall use safe and reasonable force in the performance of his
or her duties.
(`85 Code, § 3-11)
§ 92.29 PET SHOPS, CATTERIES AND KENNELS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to maintain a pet shop,
cattery or kennel for business, unless such owner shall first pay to the town
an annual license fee of $25. Upon a signed petition of all property owners
within 600 feet of a property line, approval of a special use permit and
payment to the Town Clerk, a license will be furnished which must be posted at
all times. This license shall be in lieu of all other registration fees
prescribed, provided that all dogs or cats in such kennel shall at all times be
confined on the premises. Should the dog or cat belonging to such owner or
keeper be allowed off the premises, the owner or keeper shall pay the same tax
and registration fee as required for all dogs not kept by such a provision.
   (B)   The kennel shall be maintained at all times in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be subject to inspection by the Animal Control Officer at
any reasonable time.
   (C)   All pet shops, catteries and kennels shall:
      (1)   Maintain records and retain such records for a two year period on
all dogs and cats maintained in such facility. The records shall show breed,
color, markings, sex, age, date and source of the animal, period for which the
animal is maintained, date and disposition of the animal (including name and
address of new owner) and disease prevention and/or treatment and by whom;
      (2)   Provide general environmental conditions to assure adequate
physical space for each animal, control of parasites, clean food and water,
weather protection and clean and sanitary facilities; and
      (3)   Provide cages and pens of easily cleanable materials, if used for
confinement, and keep such cages and pens clean and sanitary.
(`85 Code, § 3-12)
§ 92.30 PRIVATE BOARDING KENNELS.
   Effective as of the date of this chapter, no person, firm or corporation
shall establish, manage or operate a dog kennel in the city limits of the town.
(`85 Code, § 3-13) (Am. Ord. 181, passed 3-28-88)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
or who violates or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by any
health officer, the Chief of Police or the Animal Control Officer, pursuant to
this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this Code. Every days violation of any provision of this chapter or of
such order of the health officer, Animal Control Officer or Chief of Police
shall constitute a separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 3-45)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Volunteer Fire Department
   
93.02   Fire Prevention Code; enforcement; variances
   
93.03   Fire calls outside corporate limits
   
93.04   Sale or possession of fireworks prohibited
   
93.05   Explosives
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is established for the town a Volunteer Fire Department under
the provisions of the Oklahoma Volunteer Fireman’s Act.
   (B)   The Granite Oklahoma Volunteer Fire Department shall consist of not
less than eight and not more than 20 members. The Department shall not employ
more than two full-time, salaried firefighters. Members of the Granite Fire
Department may continue as members of the Volunteer Fire Department established
under this code of ordinances without probation but shall be subject to the by-
laws authorized under this code of ordinances.
   (C)   All new members shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment to the Department and shall not become regular members of the
Department and shall not become regular members of the Department, upon
completion of their probation period, until the approval by the majority of the
regular members of the Granite Oklahoma Volunteer Fire Department. Members must
live within ten miles of the Granite town limits.
   (D)   The Granite Volunteer Fire Department shall adopt by-laws (a copy of
which shall be deposited with the Town Clerk), which shall include the
following:
      (1)   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond
to alarms of fire and other emergencies;
      (2)   All volunteer firefighters are required to be present at all
regular meetings, call meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighter;
      (3)   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month;
      (4)   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in a period
of three months will be dropped from the Department rolls;
      (5)   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an extended period of time
shall notify the Fire Chief in advance;
      (6)   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes
provided for him or her will be dropped; and
      (7)   Any volunteer of the Fire Department shall be dropped from the
rolls for any of the following offenses:
         (a)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
         (b)   Insubordination;
         (c)   Neglect of duty;
         (d)   Violation of rules and regulations governing the Department; or
         (e)   Conviction of a felony.
   (E)   All volunteer firefighters, when responding to a fire, must observe
all traffic laws, including speed limits, stop signs and signals unless
operating Fire Department equipment.
   (F)   Copies of this code of ordinances and any amendments thereto relating
to the Volunteer Fire Department of the town shall be submitted to the State
Insurance Commission.
   (G)   Volunteer firefighters are authorized pay, in the amount of $20, for
every fire call to which they respond.
   (H)   The Fire Chief shall submit to the Town Clerk a certificate
designating the names of the volunteer firefighter who responded to a call and
the dates, place and nature of the fire call. The Clerk shall prepare the
claims for the firefighter’s pay, to be signed by the firefighter and submitted
to the Town Board.
(`85 Code, § 8-1)
§ 93.02 FIRE PREVENTION CODE; ENFORCEMENT; VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Code adopted by the Town Board of Trustees shall
be enforced by the Granite Oklahoma Volunteer Fire Department under the
supervision of the Fire Chief; members of the Department may be detailed as
inspectors by the Fire Chief, if he or she deems it necessary.
   (B)   The Chief of the Granite Oklahoma Volunteer Fire Department, with the
approval of the Town Board of Trustees, shall have the power to grant a
variance to any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code, upon application
in writing by the owner or lessee (or his or her duly authorized agent), when
there are practical difficulties in carrying out the strict letter of the code;
provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured
and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification, when
granted or allowed and the decision of the Fire Chief thereon, shall be entered
upon the records of the Department and a signed copy shall be furnished the
applicant.
(`85 Code, § 8-2)
§ 93.03 FIRE CALLS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation for whom the Granite, Oklahoma
Volunteer Fire Department answers a fire call to property or premises located
outside the corporate limits of the town shall pay the fee of $250 per hour
with one hour minimum.
   (B)   All monies collected shall be placed in the General Fund of the town.
   (C)   There shall be no charge for fire calls made to premises or property
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (D)   The Granite Town Clerk, when provided the name and address of the
rural property owner by the Fire Chief, shall prepare an invoice and mail to
the property owner for whom the fire fighting services were rendered. The
invoices shall be due and payable upon receipt.
   (E)   The Fire Department shall have the discretion to answer fire calls
outside the corporate limits of the town and shall have the right to refuse to
answer a fire call outside the town limits if the same requires entering any
hazardous area, including toxic wastes.
(`85 Code, § 8-10) (Am. Ord. 172, passed 12-23-85; Am. Ord. 185, passed 10-10-
88)
§ 93.04 SALE OR POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to
sell or to discharge, ignite or in any manner aid, assist or abet in the
discharging or igniting of any firecrackers of any size, type or description,
skyrockets, pistols, torpedoes, roman candles, flash salutes, flash crackers,
balloons or other fireworks or substances designed and intended for pyrotechnic
display or small display ground pieces, canes, cap pistols, cannons or other
appliances using caps containing chlorate or potash mixture within the
corporate limits of the town; provided that the firing and discharging of such
fireworks may be permitted within the city parks when the same is supervised by
a municipal official; and provided further that the Mayor may order or permit
public display of fireworks by properly qualified individuals under the
direction of experts in the handling of such fireworks.
(`85 Code, § 8-20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to store, keep, have on
their premises or in their possession any explosive materials of any kind or
nature without first having complied with the laws of the state for the purpose
of selling, storing or keeping such articles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or store any explosive on
any premises which are occupied as a dwelling or school. Any person storing
explosives for sale to the general public must comply with the laws of the
State of Oklahoma concerning the sale and storage of the explosives.
(`85 Code, § 8-21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
including the provisions of any code adopted by the town, shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as
provided in §
10.99 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 8-30)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Food Service Sanitation Code adopted
   
94.02   Milk ordinance adopted
   
94.03   Abandoned ice boxes, refrigerators and containers
Contagious Diseases
   
94.15   Introducing diseases
   
94.16   Report of contagious diseases
   
94.17   Quarantine
Sanitary Facilities
   
94.30   Definitions
   
94.31   Owner to provide proper toilet facilities
   
94.32   Proper disposal of human excrement required
   
94.33   Unauthorized facilities declared public nuisance
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 FOOD SERVICE SANITATION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The United State Public Health Service “Food Service Sanitation
Ordinance and Code,” current edition, is adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein.
   (B)   From the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions
of the Code, as herein modified, shall be controlling in the regulation of food
service establishments within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   Three copies of the Code are on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (D)   No fee shall be required for a municipal permit to operate a food
service establishment.
(`85 Code, § 10-35)
§ 94.02 MILK ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The production, transportation, processing, handling, sampling,
examination, grading, labeling and sale of all milk and milk products sold for
the ultimate consumption within the town, the inspection of dairy herds, dairy
farms and milk plants and the issuing and revocation of permits to milk
producers, haulers and distributors shall be regulated in accordance with the
provisions of the “Milk Ordinance-- Recommendations of the Public Health
Service, Revised to comply with Oklahoma State Statutes.”
   (B)   From the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions
of the ordinance, as herein modified, shall regulate milk and milk products
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   Three copies of the ordinance are on file in the office of the Town
Clerk.
(`85 Code, § 10-36)
§ 94.03 ABANDONED ICE BOXES, REFRIGERATORS AND CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave in a place
accessible to children any abandoned or discarded ice box, refrigerator or
other container which has an air tight door with a lock or other fastening
device which cannot be easily released for opening from the inside of the ice
box, refrigerator or container without first removing the door, lock or
fastener.
(`85 Code, § 10-20) Penalty, see §
94.99
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
§ 94.15 INTRODUCING DISEASES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person affected with or exposed to any
contagious or infectious disease to be upon any street or in any public place
in the town; the purpose of this requirement is to avoid exposing other persons
to such a disease.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or person having charge
of any child or children to allow or permit the child or children to attend any
classes, school or any gathering of people or to appear upon any street or in
any public place in the town while infected with or exposed to any contagious
or infectious disease or in any manner to allow other persons to be exposed to
such a disease.
   (C)   No person suffering from or infected with the communicable form of a
venereal disease shall engage in any occupation involving intimate contact with
persons, food or food products.
(`85 Code, § 10-1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 REPORT OF CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
   (A)   Every physician practicing in the town shall report to the County
Health Official, within six hours after the diagnosis of the same, the
appearance of any of the following diseases: diphtheria (including membranous
croup), scarlet fever, smallpox, yellow fever, typhoid fever, typhus fever,
Asiatic cholera, chicken pox, tuberculosis, undulant fever, acute anterior,
poliomyelitis (infantile paralysis), epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis,
whooping cough, mumps or any other pestilential, infectious or contagious
disease.
   (B)   Syphilis, gonococcus infection and chancroid are recognized and
declared to be contagious, infectious, communicable and dangerous to the public
health. The term VENEREAL DISEASE, as used in this chapter, shall include all
such diseases.
   (C)   The statutes of the State of Oklahoma governing the diseases stated
herein shall apply to all cases of this nature after the report is made.
(`85 Code, § 10-2)
§ 94.17 QUARANTINE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or go upon any ground or
premises under quarantine without first having obtained permission to do so
from the local or county health official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person whom the local or county health
official shall have ordered to be detained in quarantine to neglect or refuse
to be so detained or to willfully violate any quarantine regulation thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear down, remove, deface,
mutilate or destroy any order, notice or flag that may be posted or displayed
by the local or county health official.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully violate or refuse to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of any
officer or official charged with enforcement of such order, direction,
prohibition, rule or regulation.
(`85 Code, § 10-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
SANITARY FACILITIES
§ 94.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush-type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
(`85 Code, § 10-10)
§ 94.31 OWNER TO PROVIDE PROPER TOILET FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside,
are employed or congregate shall install, equip and maintain adequate sanitary
facilities for the disposal of human excrement.
   (B)   The closets and toilets required herein shall be of the sanitary water
closet type when located within 300 feet of any municipal sanitary sewer line
and accessible thereto. It shall be the duty of every owner of property so
located to connect or cause to be connected his or her toilet(s) with the
municipal sanitary sewer system and to make every proper connection so that
each toilet is properly connected with the sewer system.
   (C)   When not so located, the closet or toilet shall be of:
      (1)   The sanitary water closet type, so connected to a sanitary sewer
(notwithstanding the distance from it);
      (2)   The water closet type, connected to a septic tank approved by the
County Health Officer.
(`85 Code, § 10-11)
§ 94.32 PROPER DISPOSAL OF HUMAN EXCREMENT REQUIRED.
   All human excrement shall be disposed of by deposition in closets of the
type herein described. It shall be unlawful for any owner of property to permit
the disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner or for any person
to dispose of human excrement in any other manner.
(`85 Code, § 10-12) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.33 UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner different
from that required by this code of ordinances are declared to be public
nuisances and may be dealt with and abated as such.
(`85 Code, § 10-13)
Cross reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 95
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of any ordinance,
code or standard adopted by reference by this chapter or maintains or permits
to continue any public nuisance as defined by this chapter shall be guilty of
an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as
provided for in §
10.99 of this Code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 10-37)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Nuisance unlawful
   
95.02   Town Board may determine and define nuisances
   
95.03   Nuisance defined
   
95.04   Public nuisances; possible remedies
   
95.05   Private nuisances; possible remedies
   
95.06   Person liable
   
95.07   Procedure cumulative
Abatement of Nuisances
   
95.20   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
95.21   Abatement of public health nuisances
   
95.22   Removal of unsafe structures
   
95.23   Weeds and trash unlawful
   
95.24   Definitions
   
95.25   Reporting; notice of hearing
   
95.26   Owner; avoidance of penalty
   
95.27   Public hearing
   
95.28   Abatement
   
95.29   Collection of cost by town
   
95.30   Lien upon property
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person (owner, lessee or other) to create or
maintain a nuisance or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his or
her control within the corporate limits of the town.
(`85 Code, § 15-1) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 TOWN BOARD MAY DETERMINE AND DEFINE NUISANCES.
   The Town Board of Trustees has the power to determine what is and what shall
constitute a nuisance within the corporate limits of the town and for the
protection of the public health, parks and water supply outside of the town’s
corporate limits.
(`85 Code, § 15-2)
§ 95.03 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   A nuisance consists of unlawfully doing an act, omitting to perform a duty
or any thing or condition which:
   (A)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
   (B)   Offends public decency;
   (C)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for use any lake, drainage way, stream, stream basin, public park,
street or other public property; or
   (D)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
(`85 Code, § 15-3)
§ 95.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES; POSSIBLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   A public nuisance is one which affects, at the same time, an entire
community, neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   (B)   The possible remedies against a public nuisance are:
      (1)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      (2)   Prosecution of information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      (3)   Civil action; and
      (4)   Abatement:
         (a)   By the person injured; or
         (b)   By the municipality, in accordance with law or ordinance.
   (C)   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(`85 Code, § 15-4)
§ 95.05 PRIVATE NUISANCES; POSSIBLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Every nuisance not included in §
95.04 is a private nuisance.
   (B)   The possible remedies against a private nuisance are:
      (1)   Civil action; and
      (2)   Abatement:
         (a)   By the person injured; or
         (b)   By the municipality, in accordance with law or ordinance.
(`85 Code, § 15-5)
§ 95.06 PERSON LIABLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property created by a former owner is
liable therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it.
(`85 Code, § 15-6)
§ 95.07 PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of law and ordinances shall be cumulative one to the other;
the Town Board of Trustees may elect to follow any such procedure which is
applicable in abating any particular nuisance.
(`85 Code, § 15-7)
ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
§ 95.20 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Whenever it is practical to do so, the Town Board of Trustees has the
power summarily to abate any such nuisance, after notice to the owner and an
opportunity for him or her to be heard, if this can be done.
   (B)   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons of the public generally, and it is recognized that, in such
circumstances, the Mayor (or his or her representative) may be justified or
required to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances
or to reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate action can be taken
toward such abatement.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, the Chief of Police, the Town Attorney, the Health
Officer, any Trustee, any resident of the town or any officer subordinate to
the Town Board of Trustees may submit to the Town Board a statement as to the
existence of a nuisance as defined by state law or the ordinances of the town
and a request or recommendation that it be abated.
   (D)   The Town Board of Trustees shall determine whether or not the alleged
nuisance in fact and before proceeding to have the nuisance abated, the Town
Board shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of
any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed responsible
for or to be causing the nuisance and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if
such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the
owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by
service (by a police officer), if their names and addresses are not known and
the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person, persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a
notice of the hearing shall be published in newspaper of general circulation
within the town or county.
   (E)   If the Town Board of Trustees finds that a nuisance does in fact
exist, it shall direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for or
causing the nuisance to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health,
safety, moral or welfare of the person, persons or public adversely affected
would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay,
or if the owner or other persons responsible [missing material] nuisance do not
abate it within the specified time, the Town Board of Trustees shall direct the
Mayor to abate the nuisance or have it abated, if summary abatement is
practical.
   (F)   The Town Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance as may be just under the circumstances if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the town,
collectible as other debts of the town may be collected.
   (G)   (1)   When the Town Board of Trustees determine a nuisance exists on
property that needs to be cleaned of trash, weeds or grass, and the trash,
weeds or grass continue to accumulate, the nuisance may be summarily abated by
the Town Board of Trustees within a six month period after the nuisance is
determined without further notice to the owner of the property.
      (2)   If the town pays the costs of cleaning the property, it shall have
the option of forwarding a certified statement of the amount of the costs to
the county, as provided in division (F) of this section, after the expiration
of six months.
(`85 Code, § 15-10) (Am. Ord. 194, passed 6-7-93)
§ 95.21 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES.
   (A)   The local or county health officer shall have the authority to order,
in writing, the owner or occupant of any private premises in the town to remove
from such premises, within a reasonable length of time and at his or her own
expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the
breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease or any other condition adversely affecting the public health; failure
to do shall constitute an offense. Such order shall be served on the owner or
occupant (or his or her agent) of the premises by the local or county health
officer or a police officer. If the premises are unoccupied and the residence
of the owner, occupant or agent is unknown or is without the state, the order
may be served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at
least one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town or
county.
   (B)   If the order is not complied with, the Health Officer may cause the
order to be executed, and the cost thereof shall be certified to the Town
Clerk; the cost of abating such nuisance shall be added to the municipal
utility bill of the owner or occupant (if he or she is a user of any municipal
utility service) and shall become due and payable and be subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself. If
such owner or occupant is not a user of any municipal utility service, such
costs, after certification to the Town Clerk, may be collected in any manner in
which any other debt due the town may be collected.
(`85 Code, § 15-11)
§ 95.22 REMOVAL OF UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   When, in the opinion of the Building Inspector or any municipal
official, any building, wall or other structure upon, adjoining or near any
street, avenue, alley or public ground within the town becomes dangerous,
insecure or liable to collapse from inherent structural weakness or decay or
which, from fire damage or other cause, becomes a menace to life or property,
the same is declared to be a nuisance.
      (1)   Any such building shall be reported by the Building Inspector or
other municipal official to the Town Board of Trustees, together with the lot
and block number, the owner (or his or her agent) and a description of the
condition.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such report, the Town Board of Trustees shall, by
resolution, declare such building or structure to be a nuisance and shall serve
legal written notice on the owner (or his or her agent) to wreck or remove the
same.
      (3)   The resolution shall fix a time and a place at which the owner or
his or her agent may appear and show cause why such building shall not be
condemned.
      (4)   Upon the aforesaid date, the Town Board of Trustees shall hear all
objections and evidence in relation thereto and, unless the owner can show good
and sufficient reason why the building should not be condemned, the original
order of the Town Board shall be executed, by resolution.
      (5)   The resolution shall fix a reasonable time for the owner to comply
with the order. At the expiration of such time, if the owner (or agent) has not
complied with the order, the Town Board of Trustees shall cause such building
or structure to be torn down.
      (6)   The materials salvaged in wrecking such building or structure shall
be sold at public or private sale and the proceeds therefrom used to defray the
town’s expenses in wrecking the building; any unexpended balance shall be
returned to the owner. If such proceeds be insufficient therefor, the balance
shall be provided, by resolution, from whatever municipal fund available, and
the amount thereof shall be levied against the lot or tract of land upon which
said building was located (in the manner provided by law for assessment and
levy of other special taxes).
   (B)   Any municipal official shall have the right to stop the construction
of any building or structure or the alteration, repair or wrecking of the same
if the same is being done in a careless or reckless manner or in violation of
the provisions of this code of ordinances.
(`85 Code, § 15-12)
§ 95.23 WEEDS AND TRASH UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any owner of any lot, tract or
parcel of land situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the
town to allow trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises,
and it shall be the duty of such owner to remove or destroy any such trash or
weeds.
(`85 Code, § 15-13) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.24 DEFINITIONS.
      For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of record as shown by the most current tax roles
of the County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste or matter of any kind or form which is uncared
for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEEDS. 
      (1)   Includes but is not limited to poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden, unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of the weeds;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term WEED shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(`85 Code, § 15-14)
§ 95.25 REPORTING; NOTICE OF HEARING.
   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation of trash
or weeds upon any premises within the corporate limits of the town shall report
such condition to the Town Clerk who thereupon shall notify the owner of the
premises of the provisions of this chapter and the date and time of the hearing
provided for in §
95.27. The notice shall be given by certified mail with return receipt
requested at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the County
Treasurer’s office. If the return receipt shows that the property owner cannot
be located, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation one time not less than ten days prior to the day of the hearing.
(`85 Code, § 15-15)
§ 95.26 OWNER; AVOIDANCE OF PENALTY.
   Any owner may avoid the penalty provided in §
95.99 hereof if within ten days from the date of receipt of the notice provided
for in §
95.25, the owner shall either:
   (A)   Cut, remove or destroy the trash or weeds in accordance with the
notice;
   (B)   Give written consent authorizing the town to abate the trash or weeds
thereby waiving his or her right to a hearing; or
   (C)   Request in writing to the Board of Trustees of the town a hearing as
hereafter provided and, if within three days after an order of abatement is
rendered at the hearing, the owner abates the trash or weeds.
(`85 Code, § 15-16)
§ 95.27 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Unless written consent to abatement has been received from the property
owner, the Board of Trustees of the town shall meet on the day and time
specified for the hearing in the notice, which shall be at least ten calendar
days from the date of receipt of the notice. The owner shall have the right to
be represented by counsel, to present testimony and other evidence and to
cross-examine witnesses. If the Board of Trustees determines that the
accumulation of trash or weeds has caused the owner’s property to become
detrimental to the health, benefit or welfare of the public or a traffic or
fire hazard, it shall order that the trash or weeds be abated.
(`85 Code, § 15-17)
§ 95.28 ABATEMENT.
   In the event that the owner has not abated the trash or weeds within ten
days of receipt of notice or within three days of any order of abatement or
upon written consent from the owner, the town shall cause the trash or weeds to
be cut, removed or destroyed. The abatement may be done by the town directly or
may be let by contract to the lowest and best bidder for a period not to exceed
one year.
(`85 Code, § 15-18)
§ 95.29 COLLECTION OF COST BY TOWN.
   The Board of Trustees shall determine the actual cost of abatement,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The Town Clerk shall forward to the
owner a statement and demand for payment thereof by certified mail with return
receipt requested.
(`85 Code, § 15-19)
§ 95.30 LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   If payment is not made within 30 days from the day of mailing the statement,
the Town Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to
the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is located, and such
cost shall be levied on the property and collected by the County Treasurer as
other taxes authorized by law. The cost and interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the cost is certified to the County
Treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and
special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property, and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully
paid. At any time prior to collection as provided in this section, the town may
pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest
thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the Town Clerk shall forward to the
County Treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien.
(`85 Code, § 15-20)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter by doing any act
prohibited, declared to be unlawful thereby or declared to be a nuisance, an
offense or misdemeanor thereby or who fails to do any act required by any such
provision, who fails to do any act when such provision declares such failure to
be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, who violates any legal order or
regulation made pursuant to this chapter or who maintains any nuisance as
defined in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this Code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 15-25)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
96.01   Trees and shrubbery
   
96.02   Rights-of-way and easements
   
96.03   Obstructions
   
96.04   Drainage of polluting substance
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all trees
and shrubbery growing in the public right-of-way and on any part of the
premises adjacent to any street or alley in such a manner that the boughs or
limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient passage and travel along
any streets, sidewalks or alleys. When such premises are occupied by some
person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery
in the same manner as herein required of the owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery
within any public right-of- way; provided, that this shall not prohibit the
lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(`85 Code, § 21-1) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND EASEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct
or otherwise prevent access to any publicly-used street, alley, easement or
other municipally-owned property, whether platted or unplatted; provided that
the town may prevent or provide access to such streets, alleys, easements and
municipally-owned properties from time to time in the public interest.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may permit certain streets, alleys,
easements and municipal properties which are dedicated but not required for
traffic or other public access or use to be fenced or otherwise made
inaccessible to the public (as in the case of land being farmed or grazed as a
part of a larger field or pasture); provided, that the Town Board or any of its
officers or employees shall have the right of ingress, egress and easement for
the purpose of installing or maintaining utilities, cleaning, grading, mowing
or any other activity which is in the public interest.
   (C)   Persons, companies, corporations or individuals who have fenced in or
are farming or grazing dedicated but unopened streets, alleys, easements or
municipally-owned properties, as permitted above, shall:
      (1)   Not construct any building, structure, earthworks or ponds, nor in
any other way disturb the general grade and slope of the land;
      (2)   Maintain the property so that no nuisance is created;
      (3)   Immediately relinquish any rights presumed to be held concerning
the property upon notice by the town; and
      (4)   Permit access to the property at any time when requested to do so
by a municipal officer or employee.
(`85 Code, § 21-2) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or obstruct the sidewalks,
streets, alleys, easements or public rights-of-way of the town in any manner so
as to interfere unduly with pedestrian or other lawful traffic and parking
thereon or to interfere unduly with the purpose(s) of the easement or right-of-
way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit,
throw or sweep into or upon streets, alleys, parking areas or sidewalks any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or
other refuse of any kind.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting
upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area
adjacent to the property to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit to be
open or leave open any cellar door, manhole or grating of any kind in or upon
any street, sidewalk or alley of the town.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation or cutting
in any street, sidewalk, alley or public grounds or to remove any earth or
construction material therefrom except where authorized to do so by the Town
Board of Trustees; excavations so authorized shall be properly guarded and
protected to prevent the excavations from being or becoming dangerous to life
or limb.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct
any street, sidewalk, alley or drainage easement by placing any approach,
driveway or other obstruction or substance whatever that will obstruct or
prevent the natural flow of water through the easement or into the storm sewers
or drains or damage same so as to back any water upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks or gutters.
(`85 Code, § 21-3) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 DRAINAGE OF POLLUTING SUBSTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any residence, business or industry to allow
drainage of a polluting substance (as defined by 82 O.S. § 926.1, as amended)
into any street, alley, sidewalk or public right-of-way of the town.
(`85 Code, § 21-4) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses or neglects to trim trees and
shrubbery as provided in §
96.01, after receiving ten days notice from the Chief of Police to do so, shall
be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this Code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 21-20)
CHAPTER 97: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Junk automobiles
   
97.03   Impounding
   
97.04   Authority to impound vehicles
   
97.05   Impoundment for certain causes; complaint
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines or every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purpose of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles and tractors.
(`85 Code, § 16-59)
§ 97.02 JUNK AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to permit an inoperative automobile or other vehicle or a junk automobile or
other vehicle to be parked upon any street, alley or highway within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep or allow to be kept an inoperative
automobile or other vehicle or a junk automobile or other vehicle to be parked,
maintained or otherwise kept on any private property within the town closer
than 25 feet to the traveling surface of any street, alley or highway in the
town.
   (C)   Division (B) shall not prohibit any person, firm, corporation or other
entity from keeping an inoperable or junk vehicle on business premises within
25 feet of the traveling surface of a street, alley or highway, and division
(B) of this section only relates to private residential property.
   (D)   Future junk yards will be prohibited in the town limits of Granite,
Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 16-60) (Am. Ord. 171, passed 12-23-85) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.03 IMPOUNDING.
   Any car, truck or other vehicle parked, left or abandoned in violation of
the provisions of this chapter shall be removed from the place the same is
illegally parked, left or abandoned to any appropriate place to be stored until
claimed by owner or person having possession thereof; a charge shall be made
for the removal of such car, truck or other vehicle in the rates and amounts as
established by applicable state or federal law.
(`85 Code, § 16-61)
§ 97.04 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are authorized to remove a vehicle from a
street or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety or to a garage
designated or maintained by the Police Department or otherwise maintained by
this town under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   (A)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct or
causeway or in any tube or tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction
to traffic;
   (B)   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
   (C)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard of obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
(`85 Code, § 16-62)
§ 97.05 IMPOUNDMENT FOR CERTAIN CAUSES; COMPLAINT.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the Chief of Police
of the Town of Granite shall be and he or she is authorized and directed to
cause the impoundment in any public or private storage yard or place of
vehicles under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When the vehicle is parked on private property without the consent
first had and obtained of the owner, occupant or person in charge of the
private property and after complaint in written form signed by the owner,
occupant or person in charge of the property;
      (2)   When any such vehicle is found parked in front of or blocking any
private driveway or public alley;
      (3)   When such vehicle is found parked between the curb of a public
street and a private property line, unless permitted under the code of the
town;
      (4)   When such vehicle has had issued against it three or more parking
tickets, which parking tickets are delinquent and unpaid on the date of such
impoundment.
(`85 Code, § 16-63)
   (B)   Prior to the impoundment of any vehicle found in violation of the
provisions of division (A) of this section, a written complaint shall be signed
by the owner of private property or the occupant or person in charge thereof or
by the investigating officer, and the complaint shall be verified by the Town
Attorney after investigation. The complaint shall thereafter be filed with the
Clerk of the Municipal Criminal Court of Granite. Upon the payment of the fine
fixed, either on plea of guilty or after conviction, and after the payment of
any other penalties, and in particular those required in division (A) of this
section, the Clerk of the Court shall issue to the owner of any such vehicle a
receipt for the payment of the fine and other penalties lawfully assessed
against the owner. The owner of the vehicle, upon presentation of the receipt
to the owner or person in charge of the storage yard or place in which his or
her said vehicle has been impounded, shall be entitled to have delivered over
to him or her his or her vehicle after the payment of towing and storage
charges which shall be in the rates and amounts as established by the U.S.
Interstate Commerce Commission or any other applicable state or federal law.
(`85 Code, § 16-64)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   OIL AND GAS DRILLING
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Itinerant occupations; licenses, fees
   
110.02   Sale of merchandise on vacant property
   
110.03   Shooting galleries
   
110.04   Coin-operated amusement devices; licenses required
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 ITINERANT OCCUPATIONS; LICENSES, FEES.
   (A)   Definition. ITINERANT OCCUPATIONS, TRADES, BUSINESSES OR SOLICITATIONS
shall mean those occupations, trades, businesses and solicitations having no
permanent place of business within the town at which a permanent business is
carried on throughout the year or usual production season in good faith (and
not for the purpose of evading the provisions of this chapter) and shall
include occupations, trades, businesses and solicitations housed in temporary
stands or quarters (including permanent quarters occupied pursuant to any
temporary arrangement) or carried on by means of house- to-house solicitation
or upon the streets and sidewalks of the town; provided, however, that no
occupation, trade or business engaged in by a charitable, educational or
religious organization, association or club, having a membership duly enrolled
in accordance with the rules, regulations and by- laws of the organization,
association or club and the majority of the members being residents of the town
or of Greer County or of those counties adjourning Greer County, shall be
considered an ITINERANT OCCUPATION, TRADE, BUSINESS OR SOLICITATION.
(`85 Code, § 5-1)
   (B)   Itinerant occupation licenses; fees. Solicitors, peddlers, hawkers,
itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants,
are prohibited from going in and upon private residences in the town for the
purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise and/
or services and/or for the purpose of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking
the same until they have been granted an itinerant occupation license by the
Town Clerk who shall charge a fee for such itinerant occupation license in the
sum of $25 per day; violation thereof is declared to be a nuisance and
punishable as a misdemeanor.
(`85 Code, § 5-2) (Am. Ord. 187, passed 8-14-89) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON VACANT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, trade or
transfer any merchandise of any kind on or in any vacant property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of the property.
(`85 Code, § 5-30) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 SHOOTING GALLERIES.
   Every shooting gallery constructed, established, set up or operated
hereafter within the corporate limits of the town shall be constructed,
established, set up and operated in accordance with the standards,
specifications and requirements of 63 O.S. §§ 701 through 708, as amended and
shall comply with all the requirements thereof. No shooting gallery shall be
operated until any licenses required by this code of ordinances have been
secured therefor.
(`85 Code, § 5-31)
§ 110.04 COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES; LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any and all nongambling mechanical or
electronic machines which, upon the payment or insertion of a coin, token or
similar object, provide music, amusement or entertainment, including but not
limited to such games as pool, phonographs, video television, shooting
galleries, pinball, foosball, bowling, shuffle board or any other amusement
device with or without a replay feature which can be legally shipped interstate
according to federal law. It shall not mean vending machines used exclusively
for the purpose of selling tangible personal property, such as cold drinks,
tobacco products, candies, postage stamps or other merchandise or services such
as pay telephone booths, parking meters, gas and electric meters or other
distribution of needful service.
      COIN-OPERATED MUSIC DEVICE. Any such music device which is operated,
motivated, released or played by or upon the payment or insertion of a coin,
token or similar object, whether there is one or more boxes or devices in the
premises for the reception of such coin, tokens or similar objects; coin-
operated radio or television receiving sets in hotels, motels or tourist cabins
for the use and benefit of the guests and visitors of such hotels, motels or
tourist rooms or cabins shall be included in this definition.
      MUSIC DEVICE. Any and all mechanical devices which render, cause to sound
or release music where the same may be heard by one or more public patrons and
each separate loudspeaker, phonograph, juke box or outlet from which such music
emits shall each be construed to be a separate MUSIC DEVICE as herein defined;
except in the case where the music emits from more than one speaker
transmitting from the same music-producing mechanism, in which case the several
outlets or speakers in each place of business shall be collectively considered
one such MUSIC DEVICE.
   (B)   Coin-operated music and amusement devices are classified for the
purpose of taxation and an annual license tax as hereinafter set out is levied
with respect to each such device.
   (C)   Every person who owns and has available to any of the public for
operation or who permits to be operated in or on his or her place of business
any coin-operated music or amusement device shall pay for such privilege an
annual license fee of $20. The fee shall be levied on each coin-operated music
or amusement device, as defined herein, excluding:
      (1)   Any coin-operated radio or television receiver set in a hotel,
motel or tourist cabin; and
      (2)   Any coin-operated music or amusement device that may be operated by
penny coins only.
   (D)   Every person subject to the license provisions of this section shall
make application for the license(s) to the Town Clerk. The license(s) shall be
issued annually, beginning July 1 of each year. In the event a license is
issued for less than one year, the fee shall be based on the current and
remaining quarters of the year.
(`85 Code, § 5-33)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and cost as
provided for in §
10.99 of this Code. In addition to any such fine and costs, any license issued
hereunder may be revoked. Each day upon which a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 5-45)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act adopted
   
111.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
111.03   Temporary suspension of license; revocation
Alcoholic or Intoxicating Beverages
   
111.15   Municipal occupation tax; license; reporting
   
111.16   Retail package stores
Nonintoxicating Beverages
   
111.30   Definition
   
111.31   License
   
111.32   Retail dealers in nonintoxicating beverages
   
111.33   Hours of sale
Private Clubs
   
111.45   Definition
   
111.46   License required; fee
   
111.47   License provisions
   
111.48   Age limit
   
111.49   Regular inspections
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 OKLAHOMA ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ACT ADOPTED.
   The Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (37 O.S. §§ 501 through 556, as
amended) is adopted and incorporated by reference in the code of ordinances of
the town; applicable provisions of the Act are declared to be in full force as
if included herein in complete detail.
(`85 Code, § 2-1)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   All words, phrases and terms used in this and other chapters relating
to the use of alcoholic beverages and not defined herein shall be interpreted
and construed in conformity with the definitions of the same set forth in the
Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (37 O.S. § 506, as amended).
   (B)   Beverages containing more than 3.2% alcohol by weight are declared to
be intoxicating beverages.
   (C)   Beverages containing more than % alcohol by volume and not more than
3.2% alcohol by weight are declared to be nonintoxicating beverages.
(`85 Code, § 2-2)
§ 111.03 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, with the approval of the Town Board of Trustees,
may temporarily suspend any municipal license issued under the provisions of
this chapter for the violation of any municipal ordinance or state law or when
necessary for the immediate protection of public health and safety.
   (B)   The temporary suspension of any municipal license by the Mayor shall
be for a maximum period of five days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and state
holidays. A special meeting of the Town Board of Trustees shall be called by
the Mayor, in conformance with the Oklahoma Open Meeting Law (25 O.S. §§ 301
through 314), for the purpose of holding a public hearing regarding revocation
of the license. The special meeting shall be held not sooner than 24 hours nor
later than 60 hours following the time and date of the suspension of the
license in question.
   (C)   Following the public hearing, the Town Board of Trustees must render a
decision within three days. The decision shall be either to reinstate the
license or to revoke the license for cause.
   (D)   If the license is to be reinstated, the Town Board of Trustees may
specify certain corrective measure be taken by the license holder and the time
period in which the corrective action shall be completed.
   (E)   If the license is to be revoked, the Town Board of Trustees shall
specify the reasons for the revocation and under what conditions, if any, the
license may be re-issued. The Clerk shall prepare a written statement setting
forth the reasons for the revocation and shall, by certified mail, send a copy
of the statement, signed by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk, to the license
holder, to the Greer County Court Clerk and to the state licensing agency.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for nonintoxicating beverages (as
herein defined) to be sold, given away or otherwise dispensed in any private
club between the hours of 12 midnight and 7 a.m. on any day, excepting Saturday
nights when such beverage may not be sold between the hours of 12 midnight and
7 a.m. Monday.
(`85 Code, § 2-40)
ALCOHOLIC OR INTOXICATING BEVERAGES
§ 111.15 MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAX; LICENSE; REPORTING.
   (A)   An annual municipal occupation tax as shown below is levied on persons
engaging in the following businesses within the town:
      (1)   Retail package store: $300;
      (2)   Brewer: $1,250;
      (3)   Distiller: $3,125;
      (4)   Winemaker: $625;
      (5)   Oklahoma winemaker: $75;
      (6)   Rectifier: $3,125;
      (7)   Wholesaler: $3,500;
      (8)   Class B wholesaler: $625.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the businesses
listed in division (A) of this section without having paid the municipal
occupation tax levied by this subchapter and obtaining a valid license from the
Town Clerk. If the applicant holds a valid state license to engage in the
business within the town, is in accordance with municipal ordinances and has
paid the required municipal occupation tax, the Town Clerk shall issue the
license applied for.
   (C)   All licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall expire on June
30 of the year for which issued. The cost of any type license shall be a pro
rate part of the cost of the yearly license, computed on a monthly basis.
Licenses issued on or before the fifteenth day of any month shall be charged
for on the basis of the first day of the month; licenses issued after the
fifteenth day of any month shall be charged for on the basis of the first day
of the next month.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall transmit a report to the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board on June 30 of each year showing the amount of money collected and
the number of occupation tax licenses issued under this chapter.
(`85 Code, § 2-5)
§ 111.16 RETAIL PACKAGE STORES.
   (A)   The location of a retail package store is specifically prohibited
within 300 feet of a public school or any church property primarily and
regularly used for worship services and religious activities; provided that, if
any such church or school shall be established within 300 feet of any licensed
retail premises after such premises have been licensed, this shall not be a bar
to the renewal of such license so long as it has been in continuous force and
effect. The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of the church or school to the nearest public entrance
door of the premises of such package store, along the street right-of-way line
providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians between such
points. For the purpose of determining measured distance, property situated on
the opposite side of the street from such church or school, shall be considered
as if it were located on the same side of the street with such church or
school. A license shall not be issued for a location on any block where a
school or church is located.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain or to
assist in the operation or maintenance of any retail package store when the
premises are not separated from the premises on which any other goods, wares or
merchandise are sold or services are rendered, by nontransparent walls (which
may be broken by a passageway to which the public is not admitted). It shall be
unlawful for any person to take any alcoholic beverage from such store through
the passageway to which the public is not admitted for the purpose of selling,
reselling or delivering in connection with the sale of said alcoholic
beverages.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license for a retail
package store, or any employee or agent thereof, to keep the premises of the
retail package store open for the purpose of selling or to sell any alcoholic
beverages at any hour other than between the hours of 10 a.m. and 10 p.m.,
Monday through Saturday or to keep such premises open for such purposes on the
day of any general, primary, runoff primary or special election or on New
Year’s Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veteran’s Day,
Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
   (D)   Retail package stores may sell alcoholic beverages:
      (1)   Only in retail containers in the original package for consumption
off the premises; and
      (2)   Only at ordinary room temperature.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license for a retail
package store or any employee or agent thereof to:
      (1)   Knowingly sell, deliver or furnish any alcoholic beverages to any
person under 21 years of age, an intoxicated person or any person who has been
adjudged insane or mentally deficient;
      (2)   Employ any person under 21 years of age in the selling or handling
of alcoholic beverages;
      (3)   Permit any person under 21 years of age to enter into, remain
within or loiter about a licenses premises; or
      (4)   Permit any person to open a retail container or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a retail package store.
(`85 Code, § 2-6) Penalty, see §
111.99
NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES
§ 111.30 DEFINITION.
   RETAIL DEALER, as used in this subchapter, means any person, firm,
corporation, association or concessionaire who sells, distributes or dispenses,
at retail, any nonintoxicating beverage within the corporate limits of the town
without regard as to any place where such beverages may be consumed or used.
(`85 Code, § 2-15)
§ 111.31 LICENSE.
   (A)   There is levied upon each retail dealer of nonintoxicating beverages
for consumption on and off the premises an annual municipal license fee of $10.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any retail dealer, whether permanent or
temporary, to sell, distribute or dispose any nonintoxicating beverages without
having first received a municipal occupation license, as herein required.
   (C)   No municipal occupation licenses shall be issued to any retail dealer
by the Town Clerk, until the applicant has obtained all required estate and
county permits and has, in all other respects, complied with the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act. All such licenses shall expire on June 30 of
the year following reissuance. License fees shall be paid to the Town Clerk,
and no license shall be transferable.
   (D)   The location of a retail package store is specifically prohibited
within 300 feet of a public school or any church property primarily and
regularly used for worship services and religious activities; provided that, if
any such church or school shall be established within 300 feet of any licensed
retail premises after such premises have been licensed, this shall not be a bar
to the renewal of such license so long as it has been in continuous force and
effect. The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such church or school to the nearest public entrance
door of the premises of such package store, along the street right-of-way line
providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians between such
points. For the purpose of determining measured distance, property situated on
the opposite side of the street from such church or school shall be considered
as if it were located on the same side of the street with such church or
school. A license shall not be issued for a location on any block where a
school or church is located.
   (E)   The Town Board of Trustees shall have the power, after public hearing,
to revoke any license granted hereunder for violation of law or ordinance by
the license holder.
(`85 Code, § 2-16) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 RETAIL DEALERS IN NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or
maintaining a place of business where nonintoxicating beverages are sold for
consumption on the premises for any person in charge thereof to:
   (A)   Sell, offer for sale, give away, procure for or otherwise disperse to
any person under 21 years of age any nonintoxicating beverage;
   (B)   Permit any person under 21 years of age to loiter or remain in or
around such place of business, except where the business is an eating place
where the service of such beverages is incidental to the main business of
serving food;
   (C)   Employ any person under 21 years of age to work in such a place,
except where said place is an eating place where the service of such beverages
is incidental to the main business of serving food;
   (D)   Sell, deliver or knowingly furnish nonintoxicating beverages to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has beer adjudged insane or mentally
deficient;
   (E)   Permit therein gambling, betting or operation of a lottery;
   (F)   Permit sale, furnishing or drinking of intoxicating liquor; or
   (G)   Permit disorderly conduct, loud or disturbing language or any other
violation of state law or of the code of ordinances of the town.
(`85 Code, § 2-17) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 HOURS OF SALE.
   The sale of nonintoxicating beverages within the town limits shall be
controlled by state statutes.
(Am. Ord. 192, passed 3-8-93)
PRIVATE CLUBS
§ 111.45 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, a PRIVATE CLUB shall mean any
association, person, firm or corporation, key club, bottle club, locker club,
pool club or any other kind of club or association excluding the general public
from its premises or place of meeting or congregating, operating or exercising
control over any other place where persons are permitted to drink alcoholic
beverages, other than in a private home.
(`85 Code, § 2-25)
§ 111.46 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   No association, person, firm or corporation shall maintain or operate
any private club after the enactment of this subchapter within the town without
first paying in advance to the Town Clerk the license fee hereinafter
prescribed and making application for license therefor on forms provided by the
Town Clerk and receiving a license from the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   An annual license tax or fee of $1,000 per year is levied upon all
private clubs operating within the corporate limits of the town.
(`85 Code, § 2-26)
§ 111.47 LICENSE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the receipt from the Town Clerk, any applicant for a
license for a private club shall file with the Town Clerk true copies, in
duplicate, of the articles of incorporation and by-laws (if the applicant be a
corporation), true copies of any articles of association and by-laws (if the
applicant be an association) and a list of the officers, directors, owners and
managers of said club and any stockholders who receive a financial return on
their stock.
   (B)   If changes occur in the aforesaid officers, directors, stockholders,
owners or managers of any private club after filing of their names with the
Town Clerk as aforesaid (at any time during the year), the applicant shall
furnish such changes in writing, in duplicate (on forms provided by the Town
Clerk), within one week after the occurrence.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall forward one copy of the list of officers,
directors, stockholders, owners and managers to the Chief of Police, who shall
cause a check to be made of any criminal record of any of the persons named
therein and report in writing to the Town Clerk as to his or her findings.
   (D)   No private club, nor any officer, director, stockholder, owner or
manager thereof, licensed pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, shall
violate any of the provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Law, nor any of
the gambling laws of the State of Oklahoma, nor knowingly permit the violation
thereof on any premises subject to the control of said private club.
   (E)   No private club, as defined herein, shall be licensed to operate
within 300 feet of any church or school property measured from this nearest
point of such church or school land on which there is located a church building
or a school building in normal use for such purposes to the nearest point of
the proposed private club building in the normal and usual course of travel;
provided that, if said church or school building is located in excess of 200
feet from the church or school property line nearest the proposed private club
property, then and in such event the club shall not be located nearer than 500
feet from any church or school building; and provided further, that the
distance as referred to above, shall mean from the club building to the nearest
point of such church or school land or building in the normal and usual course
of travel. The limitations of this section shall not apply to a private club
which is in operation at the time of the passage of this subchapter, even
though it be nearer a church or school property than 300 feet; further, as to
any such private clue building, the same may not be enlarged as much as 50% of
its former size and should the building cease to be used as a private club for
a period of one year or more or as much as 60% thereof be destroyed by wind or
fire, the same may not thereafter be licensed as a private club. The use of
premises subject to the control of a private club for any purposes other than
as a private club is prohibited.
   (F)   The right of entry and inspection of any premises subject to the
control of any private club, by any non-uniformed officer or agent of any
department charged with the enforcement of the provisions hereof, shall be a
condition on which every license shall be issued, and the application for, and
acceptance of, any license hereunder shall conclusively be deemed to be consent
of the applicant and licensee to such entry and inspection.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any private club where alcoholic beverages
are sold or consumed, regardless of alcoholic content, to be located,
maintained or operated within 200 feet of a private dwelling or residence.
   (H)   Private club operators (license holders) who derive over 50% of their
revenue from dancing activities shall provide for the adequate security and
protection of their members. Security guards shall be provided in the number
and manner as prescribed by the Town Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 2-27) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.48 AGE LIMIT.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted in or on that part of
the premises subject to the control of any private club where persons are
permitted to drink alcoholic beverages, unless accompanied by and in custody of
either or both of his or her parents or guardians, except in private clubs
where selling alcoholic beverages is incidental to the private club’s primary
activity of selling and serving food.
(`85 Code, § 2-29)
§ 111.49 REGULAR INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Police, Fire, Health and/or Sanitation Departments of the Town of
Granite shall inspect all private clubs annually to enforce all of the terms of
this subchapter as well as other appropriate provisions of the code of
ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Inspection reports shall be submitted to the Town Clerk, who shall
forward reported violations to the Town Board of Trustees for review and
action.
(`85 Code, § 2-30)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine and costs as provided in §
10.99 of this Code. Each day upon which violation continues shall be deeded a
separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 2-50)
CHAPTER 112: OIL AND GAS DRILLING
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Drilling permits
   
112.03   Fee
   
112.04   Drilling restrictions; hearings
   
112.05   Compliance with laws and ordinances
   
112.06   Bond required
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WELL. The ordinary and accepted meaning of such expression or name, and in
addition thereto, the term shall also include a natural gas well, casing-head
gas well and salt water well.
(`85 Code, § 17-1)
§ 112.02 DRILLING PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drill any well
for the production of petroleum or natural gas within the town, unless a permit
for the drilling of the well shall have been first obtained, as hereinafter
provided.
(`85 Code, § 17-10) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 FEE.
   The fee for drilling or putting down each well for the purpose of producing
oil and/or gas within the town shall be $50; no permit shall be used without
payment of such fee.
(`85 Code, § 17-11)
§ 112.04 DRILLING RESTRICTIONS; HEARINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drill or
put down more than one petroleum or gas well upon any block. The term BLOCK, as
used in this chapter, means one continuous tract of land of not less than two
and one-half acres. Upon application of any owner, lessee or other interested
person, firm or corporation in any town block of less than two and one-half
acres, the tract may be attached to an adjoining block or part of block for the
purpose of drilling a well and the owners participate in the well in proportion
to the land owned by each.
   (B)   Before any permit for the drilling or putting down of any petroleum or
gas well is issued, a written application therefor, signed by the applicant or
some person in his or her behalf, shall state the block and the exact location
thereon where the proposed well will be drilled. There shall be attached
thereto copies of all the leases or contracts with the owners of the property
in such block or block which are controlled or owned by the applicant and
abstracts showing that the property is owned by the lessors.
   (C)   If the applicant does not have the entire block or tract under lease,
but owns, controls or has under lease not less than 51% of all the property
within such block or tract, the Town Board of Trustees, after giving notice and
conducting hearings as hereinafter provided, shall have authority to determine
the equities and grant a proper permit for drilling a well upon such block or
tract. Before granting such permit, notice by registered mail shall be given to
all known owners not less than ten days prior to the date and place for hearing
which shall be sent out in the notice. If the address of any owner is unknown,
upon affidavit duly filed setting out the inability on the part of the
applicant to obtain service upon such unknown owner, notice shall be given by
publication in five issues of the local newspaper, a legal publication, proof
of which must be filed before hearing the application and shall describe the
property affected upon which the application is to be heard and shall fix the
date of the hearing thereon, which shall not be less than ten days after the
date of the publication. The notice shall be dated and signed by the Mayor. At
such hearing, the Town Board of Trustees shall examine all witnesses under oath
and keep a record of the proceedings, make any requirements, regulations or
orders which may be necessary, proper or equitable for all persons interested
therein and shall protect and safeguard the rights of all parties affected by
such order. Any party affected by such order may appeal within ten days to the
District Court.
(`85 Code, § 17-12) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drill or put
down any petroleum or natural gas well or to erect, maintain, operate or permit
to exist any such well, structure, equipment, pipe line, machinery, tank or
other appurtenance in violation of any of the ordinances of the town or the
laws of the state or in violation of any of the regulations, rules or orders of
the Corporation Commission of the State of Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 17-13) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 BOND REQUIRED.
   No permit for the drilling or putting down a petroleum or natural gas well
shall be issued to any person, firm or corporation until there shall be filed
with the Town Clerk a good and sufficient bond covering each well in the sum of
$25,000, conditioned that the applicant will pay and discharge any liability
imposed by law for damages on account of injury to property, either private or
public.
(`85 Code, § 17-14)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violate any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this Code. Each day such violation is committed or continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense and be punishable as such. In addition,
violation of any of the provisions declared to be a public nuisance shall be a
basis for injunction at the suit of the town or at the suit of any person, firm
or corporation adversely affected thereby.
(`85 Code, § 17-25)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY, MORALITY AND POLICY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Offense defined
   
130.02   Attempts to commit an offense
   
130.03   Effect of intoxication
   
130.04   Aiding in an offense
Offenses Against Persons
   
130.20   Assault and battery
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 OFFENSE DEFINED.
   An OFFENSE is defined as the doing of any act or thing which, by this
chapter or any ordinance of the town, is prohibited, forbidden or declared to
be unlawful or the failure or refusal to do any act or perform any duty which,
by any provision of this chapter or by any ordinance of the town, is commanded
or required to be done.
(`85 Code, § 16-1)
§ 130.02 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the code of
ordinances of the town and in such attempt does any act toward the commission
of such offenses but fails, is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration
thereof, shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punished in the manner
prescribed for the offense itself.
(`85 Code, § 16-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 EFFECT OF INTOXICATION.
   No act committed by any person while in a state of voluntary intoxication,
whether from alcoholic beverage or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by
reason of his or her being in such condition.
(`85 Code, § 16-3)
§ 130.04 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such shall be guilty of an
offense and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(`85 Code, § 16-4)
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
§ 130.20 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Assault is any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or
violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   (B)   A battery is any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or
violence upon the person of another.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to commit an assault or any assault and battery
within the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, without
justification or excusable cause, to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or officer of the law
while the person is performing his or her duties.
(`85 Code, § 16-40) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
title shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this Code. Each days continuation of any such violation shall be a
separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 16-90)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY, MORALITY AND POLICY
Section
   
131.01   Gambling prohibited
   
131.02   False or bogus checks
   
131.03   Harmful deception
   
131.04   Loitering
   
131.05   Curfew for minors
   
131.06   Offenses relating to controlled dangerous substances
   
131.07   Illicit use of certain chemical compounds
   
131.08   Immoral conduct, shows or exhibitions; nudity
   
131.09   Prostitution; illicit sexual relations
   
131.10   Certain conduct prohibited on or near school grounds
   
131.11   Alcoholic or intoxicating beverages
   
131.12   Nonintoxicating beverages
   
131.13   Permitting or allowing gatherings where minors are consuming alcoholic
beverages
§ 131.01 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation (or agent or employee thereof) shall play,
open or cause to be opened, operate, carry on or conduct any game of roulette,
craps or any percentage played with dice for money, checks, chips, credit or
any other things of value or shall set up, operate or permit to be operated any
slot machine or other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or
any other things of value are played, when the act of playing the same might
result in a gain or loss to the party playing or shall gamble knowingly in any
other similar manner or knowingly shall permit his, her or its premises,
houses, lot or other property to be used in connection with or for any act
declared unlawful in this chapter.
(`85 Code, § 16-10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat or defraud,
to obtain, or attempt to obtain, from any person, firm or corporation any
money, property or valuable thing of the value of $50 or less by means of any
false or bogus check or by any other written, printed or engraved instrument or
spurious coin. The term FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK shall include checks or orders
given for money or property which are not honored on account of insufficient
funds of the maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer thereof.
   (B)   The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order,
payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of
intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit with,
such bank or other depository; provided, such maker or drawer shall not have
paid the drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, within
five days from the date the same is presented for payment; and provided,
further, that the check or order is presented for payment within 30 days after
same is delivered and accepted.
(`85 Code, § 16-11) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.03 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another (whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise) when such deception results in,
or contributes to, the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or
of a third party or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(`85 Code, § 16-12) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04 LOITERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without lawful reason, to wander
aimlessly within the town on the streets, in other public places or on property
of other persons or during such time to sleep upon any street or in any other
public place or on any property of another person without [missing material].
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or about any public
building, in or about the station or depot of a public carrier or on or about
the premises of a public or private school.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to remain
idle, wander, stroll, play, loaf or loiter in any public place, street or alley
within the town, either on foot or in a vehicle, between the hours of 12
midnight and 5 a.m., unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or
other adult person having custody or control of such person, unless the person
is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity directed or
permitted by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care
and custody of such person or where the presence of such person is connected
with or required by some legitimate employment, trade, profession or
occupation; it shall also be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of such a person to remain idle, loaf,
loiter and the like in a public place at such times as are specified herein,
except for those reasons listed herein.
   (D)   No person shall loiter in the immediate vicinity where a person or
persons are gambling by the use of any means or device.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or
remain idle, either alone or in consort with others, in a public place or
building in such a manner as to:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, highway, sidewalk or any other public
place or building by hindering, impeding or tending to hinder or impede the
free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians; or
      (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, highway, sidewalk or any other
public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction or
interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any business
lawfully conducted by anyone in, upon, facing or fronting on any such public
street, highway, sidewalk or any other public place or building, all of which
prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress therein,
thereon and thereto.
(`85 Code, § 16-13) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.05 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the “Ordinance
Regulating the Presence and Conduct of Minors on Streets and Public Places.”
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor as a natural or
adoptive parent; as a legal guardian; as a person who stands in loco parentis;
or as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include
but not be limited to any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, café,
theater, drugstore, pool room, a shopping center and any other place devoted to
amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the
front or immediate area of the above.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the
streets, including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors)
totaling four or more persons in which any minor involved would not be using
the streets for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going
home.
      STREET. A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case of
a sidewalk thereof for pedestrian travel. The term
STREET includes the legal right-of-way, including but not limited to the
cartway or traffic lanes, the curb, the sidewalks, whether paved or unpaved,
and any grass plots or other grounds found within the legal right-of-way of a
street.
      TIME OF NIGHT. Based upon the prevailing standard of time, whether
Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Saving Time, generally observed at
that hour by the public.
      YEAR OF AGE. Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but
not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that seventeen or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent to
the phrase “under 18 years of age.”
   (C)   Time of curfew. It shall be unlawful for any person 17 or less years
of age (under 18) to be or remain in or upon the streets within the city at
night during the period ending 6 a.m. and beginning:
      (1)   At 11 p.m. for minors 15 years of age or younger on Saturday
through Thursday and at 12 midnight on Friday and Saturday;
      (2)   At 12 midnight for minors more than 15 years of age on Sunday
through Thursday;
      (3)   At 1 a.m. on Saturday morning and Sunday morning for minors more
than 15 years of age.
   (D)   Exceptions. In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a city
street during the nocturnal hours for which division (C) of this section is
intended to provide the maximum limits of regulation shall not, however, be
considered in violation of this section:
      (1)   When accompanied by a parent of such minor;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor
to take the parent’s place in accompanying the minor for a designated period of
time and purpose within a specified area;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly. Such minor shall evidence the bona fide of such
exercise by possessing a written communication, signed by such minor and
countersigned by a parent of such minor and with their home address and
telephone number, specifying when, where and in what manner said minor will be
on the streets at night (during hours when this section is otherwise applicable
to said minor) in the exercise of a First Amendment right specified in such
communication;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only if the minor has in the
minor’s possession a written communication signed by the minor, countersigned
by parent of such minor evidencing their home address and telephone number and
establishing such reasonable necessity relating to specified streets at a
designated time for a described purpose, including points of origin and
destination;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the police officer;
      (6)   When returning home, by a direct route from (and within 30 minutes
of the termination of) a school activity or an activity of a religious or the
voluntary association; provided the minor has a written communication in the
minor’s possession, countersigned by the parent indicating the home address and
telephone number, the purpose for the event, when, where and in what manner the
minor will be on the streets at night;
      (7)   When authorized, by regulation issued by the City Council, in other
similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled but adapted to
necessary nighttime activities of more minors than can readily be dealt with on
an individual special permit basis. Normally such regulation by the City
Council permitting use of the streets should be issued sufficiently in advance
to permit appropriate publicity through news media and through other agencies
such as the schools and shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
streets permitted, the period of time involved not to extend more than 30
minutes beyond the time for termination of such activity and the reason for
finding that such regulation is reasonably necessary and is consistent with the
public interest and the purposes of this section;
      (8)   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, briefly
identifying the minor, the addresses of his or her home and his or her place of
employment and his or her hours of employment or carries a valid proof of
employment which may include the latest payroll receipt not over 30 days old;
      (9)   When the minor is with parental consent in a motor vehicle. This
contemplates normal travel. This clearly exempts bona fide interstate movement
through the city, particularly on normal routes.
   (E)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for a parent having
legal custody of a minor knowingly to permit or by inefficient control to allow
such minor to be or remain upon any city street under circumstances not
constituting an exception to or otherwise beyond the scope of this section. The
term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which a parent should reasonably be expected
to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that parent’s legal custody.
It is intended to continue to keep neglectful or careless parents up to a
reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through an objective
test. It shall, a fortiori, be no defense that a parent was completely
indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of such minor.
   (F)   Police procedures. A police officer of the city, upon finding or
having attention called to any minor to the city police station or other place
designated by the Chief of Police, where a parent shall immediately be notified
to come for such minor, whereupon they shall be interrogated. This is intended
to permit ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of relevant facts and
to centralize responsibility in the personnel then on duty for accurate,
effective, fair, impartial and uniform enforcement and recording, thus making
available experienced supervisory personnel, the best of facilities and access
to information and records. In the absence of convincing evidence such as a
birth certificate, a police officer on the street shall in the first instance
use his or her best judgment in determining age.
      (1)   Police procedure shall constantly be refined in the light of
experience and may provide, inter alia, that the police officer may deliver to
a parent thereof a minor under appropriate circumstances; for example, a minor
of tender age near home whose identity may readily be ascertained or is known.
      (2)   In any event such police officer shall within 24 hours file a
written report with the Chief of Police or shall participate to the extent of
the information for which he or she is responsible; the report shall be treated
for purposes of juvenile records in accordance with state statutes.
      (3)   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released to the
juvenile authorities, except to the extent that in accordance with police
regulations, approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may
temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor or other person who will on
behalf of a parent assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending
the availability or arrival of a parent.
      (4)   In the case of a first violation by a minor, the Chief of Police
shall cause to be personally delivered or by certified mail send to a parent
written notice of the violation with a warning that any subsequent violation
will result in full enforcement of this section, including enforcement of
parental responsibility and of applicable penalties.
   (G)   Responsibility of owners of public places. It shall be unlawful for
any person operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly allow,
permit or suffer the presence of minors in violation of the curfew established
by this section.
   (H)   Penalty.
      (1)   If, after the warning notice pursuant to this section of a first
violation by a minor a parent violates this section (in connection with a
second violation by the minor), this shall be treated as an offense by the
parent. The penalty upon a plea of guilty, nolo contendere, or finding of
guilty shall be a fine up to $50 plus costs.
      (2)   Any minor who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
more than one time shall be reported to the juvenile court for the treatment,
supervision and rehabilitation of such minor.
      (3)   A like procedure, before the juvenile authorities, shall be
followed in any case where the imposing of a fine or fines upon a parent shall
not be effective or where for any other reason the provisions of this section
cannot be made effective by the imposing of penalties under this section.
(Ord. 196, passed 8-9-93; Am. Ord. 196-A, passed 9-13-93)
 
§ 131.06 OFFENSES RELATING TO CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of any narcotic or
other controlled substance to appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place
of business or other public place within the town; or for any person to use any
narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance upon or in any street, alley,
place of business or other public place within the town; or for any person to
use any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance in any place within
the town, except as legally prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in
the state; or for any person to loiter about a place where any narcotic or
other controlled dangerous substance is sold or furnished where any narcotic or
other controlled substance is sold or furnished illegally; or for any person to
sell or furnish illegally to another person any narcotic or other controlled
dangerous substance.
(`85 Code, § 16-14) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.07 ILLICIT USE OF CERTAIN CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliberately smell, inhale,
breathe, drink or otherwise consume any compound, liquid, chemical, narcotic,
drug or any other substance or chemical containing any ketones, aldehydes,
organic aldehydes, organic acetones, ether, chlorinated hydrocarbons such as
gasoline, glue, fingernail polish, adhesive cement, mucilage, dope or an other
substance or combination thereof containing solvents releasing toxic vapors
with the intent to cause conditions of intoxication, inebriation, excitement,
elation, stupefaction, paralysis, irrationality, dulling of the brain or
nervous system or any other changing, distorting or disturbing of the eyesight,
thinking processes, judgment, balance or coordination of such person.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not pertain to any person who
inhales, breathes, drinks or otherwise consumes such material or substance
pursuant to the direction or prescription of any licensed doctor, physician,
surgeon, dentist or podiatrist, nor to the consumption of intoxicating liquor.
(`85 Code, § 16-15) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.08 IMMORAL CONDUCT, SHOWS OR EXHIBITIONS; NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself or herself in a
lewd or immoral manner in any public place within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to show obscene or immoral motion pictures or
present any kind of a show or exhibition within the town which is obscene or
immoral.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place
within the town in a state of total nudity or for any person to make an
indecent public exposure of his or her person.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to publicly display pornographic magazines or
books for sale in any store within the corporate limits of the town.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in any
publicly-exposed place within the corporate limits of the town.
(`85 Code, § 16-16) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.09 PROSTITUTION; ILLICIT SEXUAL RELATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, ILLICIT SEXUAL RELATIONS shall mean
sexual relations with any person other than one’s lawful husband or wife.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer, submit or give himself
or herself to a lewd or immoral use such as illicit sexual relations or to
engage in any lewd or immoral act for money or any other thing of value.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in illicit sexual
relations or any other immoral act, to knowingly consort with a prostitute or
other person of immoral vocation or to consort with another for an immoral
purpose in any public place within the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent
or employee thereof, to keep or assist in keeping a house of prostitution or a
house or place within the town where persons meet or assemble for illicit
sexual relations or for any other lewd or immoral purpose or to permit a known
prostitute or other person of a known immoral vocation to become or remain a
guest in a hotel or rooming house.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to act as a
procurer for any house or place of prostitution or for any prostitute or other
person engaged in an immoral vocation or to procure, assist in procuring or
attempt to procure any person for another for illicit sexual relations or any
other immoral purpose.
(`85 Code, § 16-17) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.10 CERTAIN CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON OR NEAR SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   No person shall engage in any conduct or commit any of the acts enumerated
herein, around or on the grounds of any school in the town or in any street or
alley adjacent to a school:
   (A)   Loitering by any person not having lawful business in connection with
the school an employee thereof or student therein;
   (B)   Any conduct that disturbs the orderly conduct of the school;
   (C)   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   (D)   Lewd or wanton conduct; or
   (E)   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school or in any
street or alley adjacent thereto in such a manner as to annoy or molest any
student or employee of the school.
(`85 Code, § 16-18) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.11 ALCOHOLIC OR INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
misrepresent his or her age through false documentation for the purpose of
inducing any person to sell him or her alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to have in
his or her possession any alcoholic beverages while such person is upon any
street, alley, road or highway or in any public place within the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to open a retail container or
consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of a retail package store.
   (D)   No person drunk or in a state of intoxication shall appear or be upon
or in any street, alley, place of business or other place in public, nor shall
any person drink any alcoholic beverage upon or in any street, alley, place of
business or other public place within the town.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport in any vehicle upon
any street, alley or other public way within the town any alcoholic beverage
except in the original container, which shall not have been opened, the seal of
which shall not have been broken and from which the original cap or cork shall
not have been removed, unless the opened container be in the trunk or any
closed compartment or other container out of public view and out of reach of
the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to buy,
receive, possess, sell, barter, give away, manufacture or use any alcoholic
beverages in violation of the State Constitution and Laws or the code of
ordinances of the town.
(`85 Code, § 16-19) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Chapter 111
§ 131.12 NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to be, or
remain within, any place of business where nonintoxicating beverages are sold
for consumption on the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to purchase,
receive or procure any nonintoxicating beverage.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to work in a
place where nonintoxicating beverages are sold for consumption on the premises,
except an eating place where the service of such beverages is incidental to the
main business of serving food.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, regardless of age, to be in
possession of or to drink any nonintoxicating beverage while such person is
upon any public street, alley or other public highway or in any public building
or other public place within the town; provided, that this shall not prohibit a
person who is of age from drinking such beverage in a place licensed to sell it
for consumption on the premises.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any
moving vehicle upon any public highways, street, alley or roadway within the
corporate limits of the town or in or upon any property owned by the town
outside of its corporate limits any nonintoxicating beverage, except in the
original container which shall not have been opened and from which the original
cap or seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened container is in the
rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment
in a station wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion.
(`85 Code, § 16-20) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Chapter 111
§ 131.13 PERMITTING OR ALLOWING GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS ARE CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
      ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains
.5% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either
alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances. This term
includes intoxicating beverages and low point beer as defined herein.
      GATHERING. A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
      INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Includes beverages containing more than 3.2%
alcohol by weight.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. 
         (a)   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
the court.
      LOW POINT BEER. Includes beverages containing more than .5% alcohol by
volume, and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, including but not limited to
beer or cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an
infusion of barley or other grain, malt or similar products.
      MINOR. Any person under 21 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent,
or stepparent of another person.
      PREMISES. Any residence or other private property, place, or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
      RESPONSE COSTS. The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including but not
limited to:
         (a)   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement,
fire, or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent
responding to, remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the
administrative costs attributable to such response(s);
         (b)   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire, or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering;
         (c)   The cost of repairing any town equipment or property damaged,
and the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at,
or leaving the scene of a gathering; and
         (d)   Any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this
section.
   (B)   Consumption of alcohol by minor in public place, place open to public,
or place not open to public. Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful
for any minor to:
      (1)   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public
alcoholic beverage; or
      (2)   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   (C)   Hosting, permitting, or allowing a party, gathering, or event where
minors consuming alcoholic beverages prohibited.
      (1)   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises to take , all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting drivers’ licenses or other government-issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in division (C)(1) above.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
      (2)   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
family activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use
of alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as a non-family gathering.
      (3)   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice, which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public then
said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a non-
religious gathering.
      (4)   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the State
of Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   Penalty. Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished for violation of a Class A offense, with fine of
$500, plus all court costs and statutory penalties, as set forth in §
10.99.
   (F)   Reservation of legal options. Violations of this section may be
prosecuted by the town criminally, civilly, and/or administratively as provided
by the Code of Ordinances. The town may seek administrative fees and response
costs associated with enforcement of this section through all remedies or
procedures provided by statute, ordinance, or law. This section shall not limit
the authority of peace officers or private citizens to make arrests for any
criminal offense arising out of conduct regulated by this section, nor shall
they limit the town’s ability to initiate and prosecute any criminal offense
arising out of the same circumstances necessitating the application of this
section.
   (G)   Local authority. This section shall not apply where prohibited or
preempted by state or federal law.
(Ord. 224, passed 4-11-08)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Carrying concealed weapons
   
132.02   Discharging firearms
   
132.03   Unlawful assembly
   
132.04   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
132.05   Disturbing the peace; obscene gestures and phone calls
   
132.06   Operating vehicles with too loud music
   
132.07   Prohibition on possession of laser pointing devices
   
132.08   Prohibitions on possession of paint ball guns
§ 132.01 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his or
her person any pistol, revolver, knife, dagger, metal knuckle or other
dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument, except when doing so in the line of
duty or as may be permitted by law.
(`85 Code, § 16-30) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the
corporate limits of the town, except when doing so in the line of duty, when
lawfully doing so in defense of oneself or of another person or property, when
otherwise authorized by law or ordinance, when doing so for the preservation of
the peace, health or safety of residents or the abatement of nuisances or when
engaged in authorized hunting or other related activities; it shall also be
unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun within the town in such a manner
as to harm or damage persons or property.
(`85 Code, § 16-31) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.03 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together to act in
concert to do any unlawful act against the peace, to the terror of others, to
make any movement thereto or any preparation therefor or otherwise to assemble
together for other unlawful purposes.
(`85 Code, § 16-32) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.04 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful gathering by
making noise by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or
loud language or in any other manner either within the place of assembly or
within hearing distance thereof.
(`85 Code, § 16-33) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE; OBSCENE GESTURES AND PHONE CALLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of another or
others by violent or improper conduct, by loud or unusual noise, by unseemly,
obscene, insulting, offensive or abusive language or by conducting oneself in a
disorderly manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a telephone to:
      (1)   Make any obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent comment,
suggestion or proposal;
      (2)   Make a telephone call without disclosing his or her identity and
with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass any person at the called
number;
      (3)   Knowingly permit any telephone under his or her control to be used
for any purpose prohibited in this division;
      (4)   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons make repeated
or continuous calls solely to harass any person at the called number.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, demonstrate or otherwise
symbolize any obscene gesture by use of the person’s extremities, toward any
other human being or object within the corporate limits of the town.
(`85 Code, § 16-34) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.06 OPERATING VEHICLES WITH TOO LOUD MUSIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle located upon
public street or other right- of-way and to be playing or operating, or
permitting the playing, use or operation of any radio, musical instrument,
phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound
if such sound is for the purpose of entertainment or is used for that purpose
and can be heard from a distance of 50 feet or more when the source of such
sound is located upon any public right-of-way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful if said source is located upon any public right-
of-way and can be heard inside a structure or in a motor vehicle other than the
source of the sound of said noise and if in the receiving motor vehicle all
doors and windows are closed.
   (C)   It shall be prima facie evidence of this section if the sound can be
heard outside the limits described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
(Ord. 197, passed 4-10-95) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.07 PROHIBITIONS ON POSSESSION OF LASER POINTING DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful in the town for any person to possess laser
pointing devices at any sporting event or school function. This section shall
not apply to those persons authorized to use the devices by the sponsoring
school or organization responsible for the event.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful in the Town of Granite for any person under the
age of 18 years to use or possess any laser pointing device for any purpose
other than the purpose for which it was designed.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $100.
(Ord. 209, passed 4-12-99)
§ 132.08 PROHIBITIONS ON POSSESSION OF PAINT BALL GUNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful in the town for any person to possess paint ball
guns at any sporting event or school function.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful in the town for any person to use any paint ball
gun or other device and discharge same within the boundaries of the town.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of divisions (A) or (B) of this
section, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $100.
(Ord. 210, passed 4-12-99)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
133.01   Petit larceny
   
133.02   Receiving stolen property
   
133.03   Damaging or destroying property
   
133.04   Unlawful entry
   
133.05   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
133.06   Unlawful posting of advertising matter
   
133.07   Damaging utility poles
   
133.08   Unlawful throwing or shooting of objects
   
133.09   Littering
§ 133.01 PETIT LARCENY.
   (A)   Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value not to
exceed $50 accomplished by fraud or stealth or with intent to deprive another
thereof when the property is not taken from the person of another.
   (B)   Petit larceny is unlawful and any person who commits petit larceny
shall be guilty of an offense.
(`85 Code, § 16-50) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Definition, see 21 O.S. § 1704
§ 133.02 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, receive or bring into the town
any property which he or she knows has been stolen.
(`85 Code, § 16-51) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 DAMAGING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear or
molest any structure, building, outbuilding, fence or any other property, real
or personal, public or private, belonging to another, including automobiles or
other vehicles, to use any such property wrongfully to the detriment of the
owner or other person entitled to its use or to interfere with the use of any
such property by its owner or any other person entitled to its use.
(`85 Code, § 16-52) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.04 UNLAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the property of another or
into an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or
structure is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by
signs or otherwise or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except
when such entrance is in the line of duty, with the expressed or tacit consent
of the owner or person in charge or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance.
(`85 Code, § 16-53) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.05 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or piece of land within the
town without a license or authority from the owner thereof or who erects or
occupies thereon any hut or other structure without such license or authority,
and every person who places, erects or occupies within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the town any hut or other structure whatever, shall
be guilty of an offense.
(`85 Code, § 16-54) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.06 UNLAWFUL POSTING OF ADVERTISING MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, post, paint, mark, write or
print any sign poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, device or
inscription upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge,
automobile, other vehicle or other property of another without the consent of
the owner or person in charge thereof.
(`85 Code, § 16-55) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.07 DAMAGING UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, write, print, paint upon
or otherwise make any signs or marks by indentation or otherwise or by posting
signs or posters upon any telephone, television, telegraph, electric or power
pole, either wood, concrete, steel or of any other substance, within the
corporate limits of the town. The word POLE shall be construed to mean any pole
supporting telephone, television, electric or power wires or braces and any
device used to support or brace such a pole.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the owners of such poles who make such
necessary or authorized marks or signs thereon.
(`85 Code, § 16-56) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.08 UNLAWFUL THROWING OR SHOOTING OF OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or
other object into or across any street or alley or in any place where he or she
is likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light or other property of another, whether public or private, except
in the case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of
property.
(`85 Code, § 16-57) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.09 LITTERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, LITTER is defined to be any garbage,
refuse, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles,
paper, wrappings, cigarette butts, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves,
wood, grass bedding or crockery and similar materials commonly referred to as
rubbish or trash.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any open or vacant
property within the town, irrespective of the ownership of such property.
   (C)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place within the town, except in public receptacles or
authorized private receptacles.
   (D)   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place within the town the accumulation of litter from any building or
lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway; persons owning or
occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of
litter.
   (E)   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
town, unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place; nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the town, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any
street, alley or other public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or
foreign matter of any kind in excessive or damaging amounts.
   (F)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill on or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the town;
no person shall hand out, distribute or sell commercial handbills in public
places.
   (G)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any vehicle; however it shall not be unlawful, in any
public place, for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing
to accept it.
   (H)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously
vacant.
   (I)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises if requested not to do so or
if signs are posted bearing the words “no trespassing,” “no peddlers or
agents,” “no advertisement” or similar notice indicating that the occupants do
not desire to have their privacy disturbed.
   (J)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by transmitting them directly to the owner, occupant or persons present upon
such private premises; in cases of inhabited private premises which are not
posted, handbills must be placed securely to prevent them from blowing on
sidewalks or other public places.
   (K)   The provisions of division (J) of this section shall not apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States nor to newspapers, except that
newspapers shall be placed on private property so as to prevent being carried
or deposited upon any street, sidewalk or public place or on other private
property.
   (L)   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the
town any litter, handbill or any other object.
(`85 Code, § 16-58) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
134.01   Resisting arrest
   
134.02   Impersonating municipal officer or employee
   
134.03   False representation to municipal officials
   
134.04   Escape of prisoners
   
134.05   Assisting prisoners to escape
   
134.06   Removal of barricades
   
134.07   Flight from an officer
   
134.08   Refusing or failing to assist a police officer
   
134.09   Interference with fire alarm systems
   
134.10   False fire alarms
§ 134.01 RESISTING ARREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to resist, oppose
or obstruct the Chief of Police, any police officer, the Municipal Judge or
other municipal officer or employee in the discharge of his or her official
duties; by threats or otherwise, to intimidate, or attempt to intimidate any
such officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
to assault, beat, revile, abuse, be disrespectful to or use abusive or indecent
language toward or about any such officer or employee, while such officer or
employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(`85 Code, § 16-70) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 IMPERSONATING MUNICIPAL OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate any municipal officer or
employee or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or
powers of any municipal officer or employee without being duly authorized to do
so.
(`85 Code, § 16-71) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to make any material
misrepresentation to any municipal officer, employee or agency in any official
application to or official dealing or negotiation with such officer or agency
or to commit perjury before any tribunal or office of the town.
(`85 Code, § 16-72) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.04 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person confined in the Municipal Jail or other
place of confinement by the town working upon the streets or other public
places of the town in pursuance of any judgment or otherwise held in legal
custody by authority of the town to escape, or attempt to escape, from any such
Municipal Jail, prison or custody.
(`85 Code, § 16-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.05 ASSISTING PRISONERS TO ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner, to set at
liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty or rescue any prisoner from any
officer or employee of the town having legal custody of such prisoner or from
the Municipal Jail or other place of confinement by the town, to assist such
prisoner in any manner to escape from such prison or custody, to give such
prisoner any weapon or object which might be used as a weapon or instrument to
assist him or her in escape or to give such prisoner any alcoholic beverages,
narcotics of other controlled dangerous substances.
(`85 Code, § 16-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.06 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   No person, unless authorized by proper authority, shall remove any barricade
or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off any
pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(`85 Code, § 16-75) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.07 FLIGHT FROM AN OFFICER.
   A person commits the offense of flight from an officer, if:
   (A)   He or she is the operator of a vehicle and refuses to stop his or her
vehicle as soon as is safely possible, when signaled to do so by a law
enforcement officer; or, upon stopping his or her vehicle at the signal of a
law enforcement officer, abandons the vehicle and leaves or attempts to leave
the immediate area without the permission of the law enforcement officer; or
   (B)   He or she is a passenger in a vehicle and abandons the vehicle after a
law enforcement officer has signaled the vehicle to stop or after the vehicle
has stopped leave the immediate area without the permission of the law
enforcement officer; or
   (C)   He or she is a pedestrian and leaves, or attempts to leave, the
immediate area after being directed by a law enforcement officer to stop or to
remain in the area for a reasonable length of time.
(`85 Code, § 16-76) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.08 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST A POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   Any police officer of the town making or about to make an arrest, or
executing or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with
the code of ordinances of the municipality or with state or federal law, or
suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly may call
upon a person or persons to assist him or her in making such arrest, executing
such process or suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   No person lawfully called upon thus to assist any police officer of
the town shall refuse or fail to do so whenever such assistance is reasonably
possible.
(`85 Code, § 16-77) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.09 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   No person shall cut or sever, or cause to be cut or severed or interfered
with in any manner, any wire of the fire alarm system in the town; remove or
change the same or cut, injure, change, alter or remove any pole, cross arm,
bracket or other support upon which the wires rest or in which the wires are
enclosed; disconnect the wires or any of them from the gongs, alarm boxes or
instruments connected with the fire alarm system; or cause, in any manner, the
working of the same to become obstructed or interfered with without being first
duly authorized so to do by the Chief of the Fire Department; nor shall any
person deface or in any manner injure any of the fire alarm systems or any
instruments or appliances connected with or belonging to the fire alarm system;
or tamper with the fire alarm or obstruct in any manner whatever the boxes,
keys or glass upon any of the boxes; or make or cause to be made, without
authority from the Chief of the Fire Department, keys to any alarm box or
boxes; or to use or cause to be used any such key so made; nor shall any person
place or fasten over or upon any fire alarm box a handbill, notice or sign of
any kind, except the signs placed upon the same at the direction of the Chief
of the Fire Department and pertaining to the fire; or cause to be hitched any
horse or animal to any pole on which is situated a fire alarm box.
(`85 Code, § 16-78) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.10 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   No person shall turn in a false fire alarm or in any manner shall deceive or
attempt to deceive the Fire Department or any officer or employee with
reference to any fire alarm or reported fire or knowingly shall cause the Fire
Department or its officers or employees to make a useless run.
(`85 Code, § 16-79) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE AND MODULAR HOMES
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Flood prone areas
   
150.02   House numbering system
   
150.03   Fire limits
   
150.04   Buildings in Fire Limits District
   
150.05   Combustible material
   
150.06   Movement of frame buildings
   
150.07   Plumbing and mechanical licenses required
   
150.08   Plumbing bond
   
150.09   Licensing of electricians; fees
   
150.10   Electrical contractor’s bond
   
150.11   Officers and employees not liable
Codes and Code Administration
   
150.25   Codes adopted
   
150.26   Modifications of adopted codes
   
150.27   Adopted codes on file
   
150.28   Codes in effect
   
150.29   Conflicts with code of ordinances
   
150.30   Building Inspector to enforce codes
Permits
   
150.45   Building permits
   
150.46   House moving permit
   
150.47   Pavement cutting permits
   
150.48   Ditching permits
   
150.49   Permits for pipes across streets
   
150.50   Liquified petroleum gas state permits
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission and/or the Town Board of Trustees shall review
subdivision and other development proposals to determine whether such proposals
will be safe from flooding.
   (B)   If a subdivision or other development proposal is in a flood prone
area, the Planning Commission and/or the Town Board of Trustees shall ensure
that:
      (1)   Such proposals are consistent with the community’s adopted
Comprehensive Plan and the need to minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities are located and constructed to
avoid, minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage provisions are made; and
      (4)   Proposals of more than 50 lots of five acres shall include 100-year
flood elevation data.
(`85 Code, § 4-25)
Cross-reference:
   Floodplain management regulations, see Ch. 153
§ 150.02 HOUSE NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   All buildings and houses in the town shall be numbered. The Town Clerk
shall be responsible for designating the proper numbers for houses and
buildings.
   (B)   Houses in the town shall be numbered according to the following: the
center or “C” point shall be the center of the intersection of First Street
(Number 9 Highway) and Main Street. Main Street shall be the base line
separating east and west; First Street shall be the base line separating north
and south. All even numbered addresses shall be on the right side of the
street, and all odd numbered addresses shall be on the left side of the street
from point “O.”
   (C)   The affix “one-half” shall be added to the last preceding number in
designating stairways or garage apartments.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any house or building in the town
to have such house or building numbered in accordance with this section.
   (E)   In situations where the plat or pattern of the area does not fit this
numbering system, the Planning Commission shall study the area and recommend to
the Town Board of Trustees, for adoption
by ordinance, an appropriate amendment to this section. In the event no
Planning Commission has been set in active operation, such determination shall
be made by the Town Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 4-26)
§ 150.03 FIRE LIMITS.
   There is created in the town a Fire Limits District, which shall include all
that portion of the town bound on the north by Sixth Street, on the east by the
first alley east of Main Street, on the south by First Street and on the west
by the first alley west of Main Street.
(`85 Code, § 4-27)
§ 150.04 BUILDINGS IN FIRE LIMITS DISTRICT.
   No building shall hereafter be erected within the Fire Limits District,
except as hereinafter provided, as follows.
   (A)   All outside and party walls shall be made of stone or brick with
fireproof material;
   (B)   All outside and party walls not exceeding 26 feet in height from the
level of the sidewalk to the underside of the roof joists or rafters shall not
be less than 13 inches in thickness if of brick and not less than 18 inches if
of stone;
   (C)   Outside and party walls exceeding 26 feet in height from the level of
the sidewalk to the underside of the roof, joists or rafters shall not be less
than 17 inches in thickness if of brick and not less than 22 inches at the base
if of stone, and above the first story shall be as prescribed in division (B)
of this section. All party or division walls must have fire walls extending
through the roof at least 18 inches, provided that division or party walls when
not extended to the roof must be built flush with the bottom of the joists;
   (D)   All joists, beams and other timbers in outside and party walls shall
be supported at least four inches from each other with stone or brick, laid in
mortar and all wooden material and plat pieces in front or rear walls shall
recede from the outside walls at least four inches, except that lintels of
timber may be used in cornices covered with tin, iron or other fireproof
material which recedes four inches from the outside or front as aforesaid;
   (E)   Roofs, cornices and gutters shall be covered on the outside surface
with copper, tin or iron or other fireproof material;
   (F)   All buildings within the fire limits shall be kept provided with
proper metallic leaders or pipes for conducting the water from the roof to the
ground, sewer, street or gutter in such manner as shall protect the walls and
foundation from damage; and in no case shall the water from the leaders or
pipes be allowed to flow upon the sidewalks, but it shall be conducted by drain
pipes to the street, gutter or sewer;
   (G)   Sheds and warehouses may be erected of wood within the fire limits on
the rear 50 feet of lots 150 feet in length and on the rear 60 feet of lots 190
feet is length, provided that they shall be covered with corrugated iron and
leaving no portion of the wood exposed;
   (H)   No wooden building or part of a wooden building within the fire limits
shall be raised, repaired, enlarged or removed to any other place within the
District, nor shall any wooden building within the fire limits which may
hereafter be damaged by fire, the elements or decay to the extent of 50% of the
value thereof be repaired or rebuilt; nor shall any building where the damages
are less than 40% of its value be so repaired as to be raised higher than the
highest point left standing after such damage shall have occurred or so as to
occupy a greater space than before the injury thereto;
   (I)   All buildings within the residential districts shall maintain a
uniform frontage as nearly as practicable;
   (J)   This code shall apply to all new buildings and additions, except those
specifically exempted in these ordinances.
(`85 Code, § 4-28)
§ 150.05 COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep stacked in or within 100 feet of
any building in the fire limits any hay, cotton, loose lumber or other
combustible material, nor shall any such material be moved from one place to
another within the Fire Limits District without written permission of the
President of the Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 4-29) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 MOVEMENT OF FRAME BUILDINGS.
   No frame building shall be moved from without to within the corporate limits
of the town which by reason of its age, state of repair, condition of wiring or
which, for any other reason, is unfit for human habitation or which might
endanger the public peace, safety, health or welfare.
(`85 Code, § 4-30)
§ 150.07 PLUMBING AND MECHANICAL LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in the business of plumbing or
mechanical work in the town shall obtain a license from the Town Clerk. The fee
for the licenses shall be $25 per year. No license shall be issued for longer
than one year and all licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. A license
may be renewed upon application and payment of fees, as set forth herein, 30
days preceding or following June 30 of each year and not be subject to a late
renewal penalty; provided, however, that no municipal license shall be granted
or renewed until and unless the applicant has received a valid license from the
State of Oklahoma for the same period of time as to be licensed by the town.
   (B)   No person shall do any piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances
for and in connection with a supply of water within or adjacent to any
building, structure or conveyance on the premises and to the connection with a
water main or other source of supply, except a licensed plumber as provided in
this code of ordinances.
   (C)   No person shall install, maintain, repair or renovate, in whole or in
part, any heating system, cooling system, mechanical registration system,
ventilation system or natural gas or the installation, maintenance, repair or
renovation of processed piping used to carry any liquid, substance or material,
including steam and hot water use for space heating purposes except minor
repairs, except a person licensed to do mechanical work and holding a
mechanical license.
(`85 Code, § 4-31) (Am. Ord. 201, passed 1-13-97) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 PLUMBING BOND.
   (A)   In addition to the license fee set forth in §
150.07, and before the license is issued, the applicant shall file with the
Town Clerk a surety bond in the sum of $5,000, to be approved by the Town Board
of Trustees.
   (B)   The conditions of the bond are that the principal in such bond will
save the town harmless from all damage to all persons or property resulting
from or in any way growing out of any opening or excavation made by himself,
herself, his or her agents, servants or employees in any alley, street, public
highway, sidewalk or curb; and further, that the principal shall pay any and
all loss and damage occasioned by himself, herself, his or her agent, servant
or employee, and that he or she will comply with all ordinances of the town.
(`85 Code, § 4-32)
§ 150.09 LICENSING OF ELECTRICIANS; FEES.
   (A)   All persons, firms, partnerships, corporations or individuals engaged
locally or hereafter engaging in the business of installing electrical
fixtures, wiring or apparatus in or on any building within the corporate limits
of the town shall procure an electrical contractor’s license from the Town
Clerk before they may engage in the business.
   (B)   The fee for the license shall be $25 per year. No license shall be
issued for longer than one year and all licenses shall expire June 30 of each
year. A license may be renewed upon application and payment of fees, as set
forth herein, 30 days preceding or following June 30 of each year and not be
subject to a late renewal penalty; provided, however, that no municipal license
shall be granted or renewed until and unless the applicant has received a valid
license from the State of Oklahoma Board of Health for the same period of time
as to be licensed by the town.
(`85 Code, § 4-33)
§ 150.10 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR’S BOND.
   (A)   Every person receiving a license as an electrical contractor shall
file with the Town Clerk a bond in the sum of $5,000, executed with a surety
company authorized to do business in the State of Oklahoma; conditioned that
the principal will install all electrical wiring fixtures, appliances and
equipment in accordance with state law and other provisions of this code of
ordinances; that the principal shall, without further cost to the person for
whom the work was done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused by poor
workmanship or inferior (or non-standard) material; and that the town will be
fully indemnified and held harmless from any and all costs, expenses or damages
resulting from the performance of his or her work as an electrical contractor.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to any such person until the said bond
shall have been filed.
   (C)   All such licenses issued shall be valid only while the aforesaid bond
is in effect.
(`85 Code, § 4-34)
§ 150.11 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES NOT LIABLE.
   (A)   Any officer or employee of the town charged with the enforcement of
this chapter and acting in good faith and without malice for the town in the
discharge of his or her duties shall not thereby render himself or herself
liable personally, and he or she is relieved from all personal liability for
any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act or
omission required or permitted in the discharge of such duties.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer or employee because of such act
or omission performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provisions of
such codes may be defended by the Town Attorney until the final termination of
the proceedings.
(`85 Code, § 4-35)
CODE AND CODE ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.25 CODES ADOPTED.
   The particular Codes listed below (with revisions as may be hereinafter set
forth) are adopted and incorporated in this code of ordinances, as fully as if
set out at length herein, for the purposes of establishing rules and
regulations for the following activities carried on within the corporate limits
of the town.
   (A)   Building Code. The construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use, occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures: Basic Building Code (recommended by Building Officials and Code
Administration International - BOCA), Current Edition.
   (B)   Plumbing Code. The installation or alteration of plumbing and drainage
systems for buildings and structures: Basic Plumbing Code (recommended by
Building Officials and Code Administrators International - BOCA) Current
Edition.
   (C)   Electrical Code. The installation or alteration of electrical
equipment for buildings or structures:
National Electrical Code (recommended by the American Insurance Association)
Current Edition.
   (D)   Housing Code. The provisions of basic, minimum housing standards for
the preservation of the health, safety and welfare of occupants: Basic Housing
and Property Maintenance Code (recommended by Building Officials and Code
Administrators International - BOCA), Current Edition.
   (E)   Fire Prevention Code. The provision of basic safeguards to life and
property from the hazards of fire and explosion: Basic Fire Prevention Code
(recommended by Building Officials and Code Administrators International -
BOCA), Current Edition.
   (F)   Gas Codes. The installation or alteration of gas system for buildings
or structures:
      (1)   Gas Appliances and Gas Piping (recommended by the National Fire
Protection Association), Current Edition; or
      (2)   Rules, Regulations and Standards for the Storage and Handling of
Liquefied Petroleum Gases for the State of Oklahoma, Current Edition; or
      (3)   Rules and Regulations Relating to the Liquefied Petroleum Gas
Industry of the State of Oklahoma (prepared through the State Liquefied
Petroleum Gas Board), Current Edition.
(`85 Code, § 4-1)
§ 150.26 MODIFICATIONS OF ADOPTED CODES.
   (A)   Wherever the words “city,” “town” or “municipality” are used in those
Codes adopted, it shall mean the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
   (B)   Wherever the words “Inspector,” “Building Inspector” or
“Administrative Official” are used in those Codes adopted, it shall mean the
municipal official currently assuming the duties and responsibilities of
Municipal Building Inspector for the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
   (C)   All official titles used in those Codes adopted shall be interpreted
as defined in this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Maximum penalties for violation or provisions of those Codes adopted
shall be as provided in §
150.99.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provisions of any of those Codes adopted by this
chapter, wood shingles may be used for roofing.
   (F)   All limits referred to in any of those Codes adopted by this chapter
are established as the corporate limits of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 4-2)
§ 150.27 ADOPTED CODES ON FILE.
   Three copies of those Codes adopted by the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, are on
file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(`85 Code, § 4-3)
§ 150.28 CODES IN EFFECT.
   From the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions of
said Codes, as herein modified, shall be controlling in those areas set forth
herein within the corporate limits of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 4-4)
§ 150.29 CONFLICTS WITH CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Whenever any provision of any of those Codes adopted by this chapter
conflict with the code of ordinances of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, the
latter provisions shall govern.
(`85 Code, § 4-5)
§ 150.30 BUILDING INSPECTOR TO ENFORCE CODES.
   Any municipal official or other employee designated by the Town Board of
Trustees shall be responsible for enforcing the Codes adopted by these
ordinances. The persons may bear such titles as “Building Inspector,” “Gas
Inspector,” “Plumbing Inspector,” “Electrical Inspector” and the like as may be
deemed appropriate to indicate their respective areas of concern and shall be
appointed or designated by the Town Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 4-6)
PERMITS
§ 150.45 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, enlarge, construct, relocate, substantially
improve, repair, place, alter, move or demolish any building, structure, mobile
or modular home or other construction without first obtaining a separate
building permit for each such building or structure from the office of the Town
Clerk.
   (B)   No man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate located
within a designated “Flood Hazard Area,” including but not limited to building
or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations shall be initiated until a separate building permit has
been obtained for each such operation from the office of the Town Clerk.
   (C)   No mobile or modular home shall be placed on improved or unimproved
real estate without first obtaining a separate building permit for each mobile
home from the office of the Town Clerk.
   (D)   Ordinary repairs of buildings or structures, the cost of which shall
not exceed $500, may be made without obtaining a building permit.
   (E)   All applications for building permits shall be signed and in writing
upon an official blank form supplied by the office of the Town Clerk or the
Municipal Building Inspector and shall be submitted to either of said
officials, along with the required fee.
   (F)   Building permit fees shall be as determined by motion of the Town
Board of Trustees and shall be based primarily upon the municipal costs
incurred in the administration of the municipal building permit system.
   (G)   The office of the Town Clerk shall be responsible for the
administration of the building permit process within the community; provided,
that building permit application forms may be obtained from, and submitted to,
the Municipal Building Inspector.
   (H)   Applications for building permits shall contain all applicable
information required on the building permit form and shall be accompanied by
drawings of the proposed work (drawn to scale), showing floor plans, structural
details, computations and such additional information as may be required of the
applicant by the office of the Town Clerk, the Municipal Building Inspector,
this code of ordinances or the Town Board of Trustees.
   (I)   Upon receipt of a complete building permit application and the rewired
fee, the Town Clerk shall immediately turn the application over to the
Municipal Building Inspector, who shall review the application to ensure that:
      (1)   The involved land is properly zoned for the proposed use;
      (2)   Applicable zoning district provisions (including Floodway and
Floodway Fringe District provisions) have been met;
      (3)   Roadway access is available;
      (4)   Adequate and sanitary provisions have been made for utilities;
      (5)   All easements provided in the recorded plat, if any, are not
encroached upon;
      (6)   All other required municipal permits have been obtained.
   (J)   Building permit applications for development, location, demolition or
alteration within delineated “Flood Hazard Areas” (as shown on the community’s
Official Flood Hazard Boundary Map and Flood insurance Rate Map (400274), dated
November 1, 1974), which are adopted by reference as if set out fully herein,
shall be reviewed by the Municipal Building Inspector to ensure they all of the
following requirements are met:
      (1)   All building sites shall be reasonably safe from flooding; if a
proposed building site is in a flood-prone area, all new construction and
substantial improvement (including the placement of prefabricated buildings and
mobile homes) shall:
         (a)   Be designed, modified and/or adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure; all mobile homes to
be placed within Zone A on a community’s Flood Hazard Boundary Map shall be
anchored by providing over-the-top and frame ties to ground anchors; over-the-
top ties shall be provided at each of the four corners of the mobile home, with
two additional ties per side at intermediate points and mobile homes less than
50 feet long requiring one additional tie per side; frame ties shall be
provided at each corner of the home, with five additional ties per side at
intermediate points and mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring four
additional ties per side; all components of the anchoring system shall be
capable of carrying a force of 4,800 pounds; and additions to the mobile home
shall be similarly anchored;
         (b)   Be constructed with material and utility equipment resistant to
food damage; and
         (c)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages;
      (2)   All new and replacement water supply systems within flood-prone
areas shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems;
      (3)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters;
      (4)   On-site waste disposal systems within flood-prone areas shall be
located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
      (5)   The Municipal Building Inspector shall utilize all available 100-
year flood elevation data to review building permit applications and shall
require that all applications for development within a flood-prone area be
accompanied by:
         (a)   The elevation of the lowest habitable floor (including basement)
of all new or substantially improved structures; and
         (b)   A certificate signed by a registered professional engineer or
architect stating that the flood-proofing methods to be utilized are adequate
to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces
an other factors associated with the 100-year flood and indicating the specific
elevation to which the structure will be flood-proofed;
      (6)   All new construction or substantial improvement of residential
structures within Zones A1-30 (on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map)
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot above the
level of the 100-year flood;
      (7)   Within Zones A1-30 (on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map),
all mobile homes not in a mobile home park or mobile home subdivisions, all
expansions to existing mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions and all
repairs, reconstruction or improvement of streets, utilities and/or pads in
existing mobile home parks or mobile home subdivisions shall be located,
developed, expanded or improved according to the following criteria:
         (a)   All mobile homes shall be placed, or be capable of being placed,
on compacted fill or on pilings so that the lowest floor of the mobile home
will be one foot above the level of the 100-year flood;
         (b)   All lots shall have adequate provisions for surface drainage and
access; and
         (c)   All mobile homes to be elevated on pilings shall:
            1.   Be placed on lots large enough to permit steps;
            2.   Provide for piling foundations to be placed in stable or
stabilized soils, no more than ten feet apart; and
            3.   Provide for reinforcement of piers more than six feet above
around level;
      (8)   All new construction or substantial improvement of residential
structures located within any AO (Area of Shallow Flooding) Zone (as shown on
the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map) shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated above the crown of the nearest street, one foot
above the depth number specified for the area on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map;
      (9)   All new construction or substantial improvement of nonresidential
strictures within Zones A1-30 (on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map)
shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot
above the level of the 100-year flood; or
         (b)   Be designed, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, so that, below the level of the 100-year flood, the structure is
watertight, with walls and substantially impermeable to the passage of water
and contains structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy;
      (10)   All new construction or substantial improvement of nonresidential
structures within any AO (Area of Shallow Flooding) Zone (on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map) shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
crown of the nearest street, one foot above the depth number specified on the
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map; or
         (b)   Be completely flood-proofed, along with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities to one foot above the depth number specified on the
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map, so that any space below that level is
watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
containing structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy;
      (11)   The requirements of this chapter shall also be in effect for
building permit applications located within any A99 Zones on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map;
      (12)   Floodways, as designated on the town’s Official Flood Hazard
Boundary Map (FHBM) are hazardous areas due to:
         (a)   The velocity of flood waters which carry debris and potentially
damaging projectiles; and
         (b)   The creation of severe erosion problems; the following
provisions apply within designated floodway areas:
            1.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other developments, unless
certification by a professional registered engineer or architect is provided,
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during occurrence of the base flood discharge;
            2.   If the provisions of subsection 1. are satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of this code of ordinances;
            3.   The placement of any mobile homes, except in an existing
mobile home park or subdivision shall be prohibited.
   (K)   The Municipal Building Inspector shall have the following additional
responsibilities in the review of building permit applications for development,
location, demolition or alteration within a delineated “Flood hazard Area.”
      (1)   Building permit applications shall be reviewed to ensure that all
necessary governmental agency permits required by state or federal law have
been obtained.
      (2)   In the case of building permit applications for alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, the Municipal Building Inspector shall:
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Flood Insurance
Coordinating Office prior to such work (and submit copies of such notification
to the Federal Mood Insurance Administrator); and
         (b)   Obtain written assurances from the building permit applicant
that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the
water course will be maintained.
      (3)   For the purpose of determining flood insurance risk premium rates,
the Municipal Building Inspector shall maintain records of:
         (a)   The elevation of the lowest habitable floor of all new or
substantially improved structures;
         (b)   Flood-proofing certificates (including the specific elevation to
which the structure is flood-proofed).
   (L)   Issuance of a building permit for development within an identified
“Flood Hazard Area” shall not create liability on the part of any municipal
official for any flood damages resulting from reliance upon the provisions of
this section or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   (M)   If the Municipal Building Inspector is satisfied that the proposed
work described in the application and attached materials conform to the
requirements of the adopted zoning ordinance, Building Code and other
regulations and requirements, he or she shall authorize the issuance of the
building permit by signing the application and forwarding it to the Town Clerk,
who shall return a copy to the applicant.
   (N)   If the application or attached materials do not conform to pertinent
municipal regulations, the Municipal Building Inspector shall not approve the
application, but shall return the application to the Town Clerk, along with
written reason(s) for disapproval. The Town Clerk shall return the application,
with written reason(s) attached to the applicant. The applicant may
subsequently amend his or her application, if possible, and resubmit or
initiate other action to correct the deficiencies.
   (O)   The Municipal Building Inspector and the office of the Town Clerk
shall complete all required review processes in an efficient and effective
manner, without unreasonable or unnecessary delay.
   (P)   A building permit, once approved and issued, shall be construed as a
license to proceed with the work and shall not be construed as authority to
violate, cancel, alter or set aside any municipal regulations, nor shall such
issuance prevent the Municipal Building Inspector from thereafter requiring a
correction of errors in plans, construction or a violation of this chapter.
   (Q)   If the work allowed under an issued building permit has not been
initiated within six months from the issuance date of said permit, the permit
shall become null and void, unless a request for an extension is submitted to
and approved by the Town Board of Trustees. If the permit becomes null and
void, a new permit must be obtained and the regular fee incident thereto
collected in order for the work to be initiated or resumed.
   (R)   The Municipal Building Inspector shall keep a permanent and accurate
accounting of all building permits and shall transmit copies of each permit
issued to the Chairperson of the Municipal Planning Commission for information
purposes. The Town Clerk shall keep a permanent and accurate record of all
building permit fee payments.
   (S)   The Town Clerk may revoke a building permit in case there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact in the application
or attached materials on which the building permit approval was based.
   (T)   Building permits shall be conspicuously displayed on the project or
site in a manner visible from the street.
   (U)   The Town Clerk and the Municipal Building Inspector shall monitor
municipal utility hook-up requests and shall not allow municipal utilities to
be turned on to any unit, structure or project for which a building permit has
not been issued.
   (V)   Appeals from any aggrieved person concerning a decision of the Town
Clerk relative to the granting of building permits shall be taken to the Town
Board of Trustees, who shall act as the Permit Board of Appeals for the town.
   (W)   In the event of any conflict between these building permit provisions
delineated herein and any provision(s) of the Building Code adopted by the Town
Board of Trustees, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
(`85 Code, § 4-15)
§ 150.46 HOUSE MOVING PERMIT.
   (A)   Before any person shall move any house, building or heavy structure on
or over any street within or through the town, it shall first be necessary to
obtain a permit to do so from the office of the Town Clerk; said permit shall
first be approved by the Utility Superintendent or his or her designated
representative.
   (B)   The fee for a permit to move such house or structure shall be $25. In
the event it is necessary to move utility lines, poles, signs or other
structures to facilitate the move, the cost therefor will be paid by the
applicant, in addition to the normal fee.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to any person to move a house or structure
unless the person has in effect a bond in the sum of $1,000, conditioned that
the mover will indemnify the owners of any property (public or private,
including pavement, curbs and the like) for any damage thereto resulting from
the moving of any house or structure by him or her or by his or her agents or
employees and holding the town harmless from liability for employees and
holding the town harmless from his or her liability for any such damages.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Utility Superintendent or his or her
designated representative to approve or determine the route that may be used
and the potential for damages, if any, to any property. He or she may prescribe
such rules and regulations as are necessary to promote an effective move and
protection of persons and property. The mover shall erect all necessary danger
signals during the operation of move.
   (E)   Any person moving any house or any other structure on or over any
street or alley shall be liable personally and upon his or her bond for any
damages to trees, public property, persons or any matter whatsoever resulting
from such moving. This shall not be construed to authorize any person to cut or
trim any trees or commit any injury to any public or private property which
cannot be immediately restored to its former condition, and no permit shall
authorize any moving under any conditions which will promote such damage.
(`85 Code, § 4-16)
§ 150.47 PAVEMENT CUTTING PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut any pavement on any street
or alley within the town without a permit from the office of the Town Clerk;
the permit shall first be approved by the Utility Superintendent or his or her
designated representative.
   (B)   An estimate of the cost of cutting such pavement shall be made by the
Utility Superintendent or his or her designated representative, and a deposit
equal to the amount of the estimate shall be made by the applicant.
   (C)   The town may, at its option, either make repairs of the pavement which
has been cut under the provisions of this section and charge the costs of such
repairs to the deposit herein provided or require that the parson cutting the
pavement make the repairs; in the latter case, the person’s deposit shall be
returned, upon satisfactory repair of the pavement. Any balance remaining after
all such costs are paid shall be returned to the person making the deposit. The
town will charge a flat $100 fee for repairs.
   (D)   Any person cutting such pavement shall maintain proper safeguards with
suitable lights during the night hours and sufficient in number to give warning
of danger to all persons.
(`85 Code, § 4-17) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.48 DITCHING PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to initiate
any ditching operation involving any public easement, right-of-way, place, area
or building within the town without first obtaining a permit from the office of
the Town Clerk; the permit shall first be approved by the Utility
Superintendent or his or her designated representative.
   (B)   The permit shall be issued only if the applicant meets the following
conditions:
      (1)   The applicant shall provide a map of the proposed project prior to
initiating work; said map shall show all municipal utility line locations in
the project area and all areas of public easement, right- of-way, places, areas
or buildings potentially affected by the proposed project;
      (2)   The applicant shall provide written proof that he or she has
coordinated his or her project with all other applicable utility companies
(telephone, electric, gas and CATV) and is aware of the locations of all such
lines;
      (3)   The applicant shall provide a surety bond (or cash deposit)
suitable to the town as to dollar amount and form to insure that any damages
will be repaired; upon completion of the project, the town will review any
damage claims and make appropriate arrangements;
      (4)   The applicant shall agree, in writing, to maintain proper
safeguards, particularly at night.
   (C)   Violations of any of these provisions shall be grounds for revocation
of the applicant’s permit at any time.
   (D)   The fee for such permit shall be as determined by motion of the Town
Board of Trustees.
(`85 Code, § 4-18)
§ 150.49 PERMITS FOR PIPES ACROSS STREETS.
   (A)   Oil and gas companies and other persons, firms and corporations not
operating pursuant to a franchise granted by the municipality or not operating
pursuant to a license or permit granted by the State Corporation Commission
shall secure a permit from the office of the Town Clerk before placing,
installing, laying, constructing, operating or maintaining any pipe, cable,
wire, conduit or line across, over, under, along, through or upon any street,
alley, public way or public place within the corporate limits of the town; said
permit shall first be approved by the Utility Superintendent or his or her
designated representative.
   (B)   The application for the permit shall specify:
      (1)   The location of the pipe, cable, wire conduit or line; and
      (2)   The privileges and proposed terms which the applicant desires to
secure from the town and to exercise.
   (C)   The Utility Superintendent, if he or she sees fit to grant the permit,
will grant it on written terms which are mutually agreeable. The Utility
Superintendent may revoke the permit after adequate opportunity for a public
hearing for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to abide by the terms on which the permit was granted;
      (2)   Violation of state law or municipal ordinances; or
      (3)   Protection of the public peace, health, safety or welfare.
   (D)   The applicant shall pay such fees for such permit and for its periodic
renewal as the Town Board of Trustees may establish by motion.
   (E)   The Utility Superintendent may refuse to renew a permit.
   (F)   The Town Board of Trustees may require an applicant to provide a bond
for the protection of the town and/or the public in such sum and with such
terms as the Town Board deems desirable. When the Town Board of Trustees
requires such a bond, a permit shall have no force or effect unless the
required bond is also in effect.
(`85 Code, § 4-19)
§ 150.50 LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS STATE PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
fabricate, assemble, install or repair any system, container, apparatus or
appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing or utilization
of liquified petroleum gas or to transport, handle or store such gas, unless
such person has complied and complies with all provisions of the state law.
(`85 Code, § 4-20) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to do any thing required by
this chapter or by any Code adopted by this chapter, who shall otherwise
violate any provision of this chapter or of any Code adopted by this chapter or
who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the officers
provided for in this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 4-40)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE AND MODULAR HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Free-standing mobile homes
   
151.04   Nonresidential mobile trailers
   
151.05   Minimum housing regulations for mobile homes
Mobile Home and Trailer Parks
   
151.20   Licenses and temporary permits; requirements; procedures; fees
   
151.21   Inspection of parks
   
151.22   Notices, hearings and orders
   
151.23   Supervision
   
151.24   Posting of licenses and temporary permit
   
151.25   Location and design consideration for parks
   
151.26   Service building for travel trailer parks
   
151.27   Sewage disposal for mobile home parks
   
151.28   Water supply for mobile home parks
   
151.29   Refuse disposal for mobile home parks
   
151.30   Insect and rodent control
   
151.31   Electricity; exterior lighting
   
151.32   Fuel
   
151.33   Fire protection
   
151.34   Alterations and additions
   
151.35   Registration of owners and occupants
   
151.36   Mobile home subdivisions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide areas within the corporate
boundaries of the town wherein the location and development of mobile homes,
mobile home parks, mobile home subdivisions and modular housing units or
additions may be safely continued and encouraged.
   (B)   The regulations set forth in this chapter are designed to promote
stable neighborhoods, prevent health and safety hazards and encourage the
economical and orderly development and operation of mobile home parks and
subdivisions, trailer parks and modular housing units and additions.
(`85 Code, § 13-1)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated health authority of the town (or his
or her authorized representative) or the authorized representative of the Greer
County Health Department or the State Department of Health.
   INSPECTION OFFICER. The Building Official of the town or his or her
authorized agent.
   LICENSEE. Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park
under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. Any single-family dwelling designed for transportation on
streets and highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailers (both
highway and rail) and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a
dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental
unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or permanent foundations,
connection to utilities and similar operations. Unless otherwise indicated in
the text of this chapter, the term MOBILE HOME shall refer to an independent
mobile home as defined herein.
   MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT. Any mobile home which does not have a flush toilet
and a bath or shower. For purposes of regulation under this chapter, a
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME shall be considered to be the same as a travel trailer,
unless otherwise specified.
   MOBILE HOME, FREE-STANDING. Any mobile home or travel trailer not located in
a mobile home park or travel trailer respectively licensed by the town or in an
approved mobile home subdivision.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT. Any mobile home which meets the minimum gross
floor area or habitable space requirement of any municipal regulations and
which has a flush toilet and a bath or shower. Unless otherwise indicated in
the rest of this chapter, the term mobile home shall mean an independent mobile
home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. Any plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home and not located on a mobile home sales
lot.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision designed and intended for
residential use, where residence is in mobile homes exclusively, and mobile
home lots are sold for occupancy.
   MODULAR HOME. Any factory-fabricated, transportable building unit, not built
upon a permanent chassis, designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated
with similar units on a permanent foundation; the term is intended to apply to
major assemblies and does not include prefabricated subelements incorporated
into a structure at the site.
   NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER. Any vehicle having the basic characteristics
of either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale (as indicated by a clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer).
   PARK. A mobile home and/or travel trailer park.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a temporary permit is issued to maintain or
operate a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter.
   PUBLIC WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM. Any such system built and owned by or
dedicated to and accepted by the town; all other such systems shall be deemed
private systems.
   RURAL AREA. Any area within the existing or future corporate boundaries of
the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, which is zoned agriculturally; this shall not
include area zoned for low-density, residential- estates type uses.
   SERVICE BUILDING. Any building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men
and/or women and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities and
other facilities as required by this chapter or desired by the park operator.
   SUBDIVISION. A mobile home subdivision, unless otherwise indicated.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. All vehicles and portable structures built on a chassis,
designed as a temporary or permanent dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation use, not included in the definition of independent mobile homes. For
purposes of regulation under this chapter, a dependent mobile home shall be
considered to be the same as a travel trailer, unless otherwise specified.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more travel
trailers occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located, regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   TRAVEL TRAILER SPACE. A plot of ground within a travel trailer park designed
for accommodation of one travel trailer.
   URBAN. All areas within the existing or future corporate boundaries of the
town zoned for urban intensity development.
(`85 Code, § 13-2)
§ 151.03 FREE-STANDING MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   No free-standing, mobile home or travel trailer shall be permitted
within the corporate limits of the town unless it is being offered for sale or
parked for storage.
   (B)   Except for mobile homes or travel trailers within regular commercial
mobile home or travel trailer sales lots, each such free-standing mobile home
or travel trailer offered for sale must be clearly marked as such, shall not be
occupied for either living or sleeping purposes and must be removed from the
premises if not sold within 120 days.
   (C)   Free-standing mobile homes or travel trailers located within regular
commercial mobile home or travel trailer sales lots need not be individually
marked for sale or removed within 120 days if not sold.
   (D)   A property owner shall not store, nor permit to be stored, more than
one mobile home or travel trailer on a residential lot; such mobile home or
travel trailer shall not be stored in any required front or side yard or public
utility easement, nor shall such mobile home or travel trailer project beyond
the front of any building.
   (E)   Free-standing mobile homes shall be permitted in the town rural area
but only in agricultural zoning districts.
   (F)   Permits for such free-standing mobile homes shall be issued by the
inspection officer, but only when the applicant agrees, in writing, to remove
such mobile home within 120 days after either the mobile home site is re-zoned
to a district other than agricultural or is abutted within 660 feet by zoning
districts other than agricultural.
   (G)   The free-standing mobile homes must comply with all normal municipal
regulations.
(`85 Code, § 13-3)
§ 151.04 NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS.
   (A)   No nonresidential mobile trailer shall be permitted in the town,
unless a license for its operation is issued by the Inspection Officer.
   (B)   The license shall specify the permitted use of the nonresidential
mobile trailer, the location of such operation and the termination date of the
permit.
   (C)   No license shall be issued for a use which would violate any local,
state or federal ordinance, law or regulation.
   (D)   An annual fee of $20 shall be charged for each nonresidential mobile
trailer license; provided, that no governmental or nonprofit agency shall be
charged for such a fee.
   (E)   Operation of nonresidential trailers by contractors or construction
projects for which building permits have been issued or which are otherwise
approved by governmental units is permitted during the term of such
construction project, without issuance of a license.
   (F)   This section shall not be construed as permitting or authorizing the
permanent location of any nonresidential mobile trailer within the town.
(`85 Code, § 13-4)
§ 151.05 MINIMUM HOUSING REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Every mobile home located in either a mobile home park, a mobile home
subdivision or as a free-standing mobile home shall meet the provisions of the
adopted Housing Code of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, except as otherwise
provided in this section.
   (B)   Every mobile home shall contain the following minimum gross floor area
of habitable space:
      (1)   One-hundred fifty square feet for one or two occupants;
      (2)   One-hundred additional square feet for third occupant; and
      (3)   Seventy-five square feet additional for each additional occupant
thereafter.
   (C)   Habitable space in a mobile home shall have a minimum ceiling height
of seven feet over 50% of the floor area; the floor area where the ceiling
height is less than five feet shall not be considered in computing minimum
gross floor area.
   (D)   A mobile home shall have a safe and unobstructed primary exit and an
emergency exit located remote from the primary exit.
   (E)   Rooms occupied for sleeping purposes must contain at least 60 square
feet of floor space if used by more than one person and at least 40 square feet
if used by one person.
   (F)   Dependent mobile homes shall not be required to have a flush toilet,
bath or shower.
   (G)   The Housing Code shall not apply to travel trailers in so far as floor
area, flush toilet, bath or shower ceiling height is concerned.
(`85 Code, § 13-5)
MOBILE HOME AND TRAILER PARKS
§ 151.20 LICENSES AND TEMPORARY PERMITS; REQUIREMENTS; PROCEDURES; FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate
any mobile home park or travel trailer park within the limits of the town,
unless he or she holds a valid license issued annually and jointly by the
inspection officer and health officer of the town, in the name of such person
for the specific mobile home park, except that the maintenance or operation of
a mobile home park or travel trailer park in existence on the effective date of
this chapter may be continued under a temporary permit for such period of time
and under such conditions as are hereinafter described.
   (B)   Application shall be made to the inspection officer, who acting
jointly with the health officer, shall issue a license upon compliance by the
applicant with all pertinent provisions of this chapter and other ordinances
and regulations of the town. Every person holding such a license shall notify
the health officer in writing within 24 hours after having sold, transferred,
given away or otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home
park. Such notice shall include the nature and address of the person succeeding
to the ownership or control of such mobile home park or travel trailer park.
   (C)   Application for original licenses shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
the application and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The interest of the applicant in, and the location and legal
description of, the park;
      (3)   A complete plan of the park, showing compliance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder; and
      (4)   Such further information as may be requested by the health and/or
inspection officer.
   (D)   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made, in writing, by
the holder of the license and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Any change in the information submitted since the time the original
license was issued or the latest renewal granted; and
      (2)   Other information requested by the health and/or inspection
officers.
   (E)   A complete plan, for the purpose of obtaining a license to be issued,
shall show:
      (1)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      (2)   The number, locations and size of all mobile home or travel trailer
spaces;
      (3)   The location and width of roadways, walkway, buffer strips and
recreational areas;
      (4)   The location of service buildings and other proposed structures;
      (5)   The location and size of utility lines and treatment facilities;
and
      (6)   Plans and specification of all buildings and other improvements
constructed, or to be constructed, within the park.
   (F)   Whenever the health and/or inspection officer finds conditions
existing in violation of this chapter or of any regulation adopted pursuant
thereto, he or she shall give notice, in writing, to the person to whom the
license was issued that unless such conditions or practices be corrected within
a reasonable period of time (specified in the notice), the license will be
suspended. At the end of such period, not to exceed 90 days, the health and/or
inspection officer shall re-inspect such park, and, if such conditions or
practices have not been corrected, he or she shall suspend the license and give
notice, in writing, of such suspension to the person to whom the license was
issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, the person shall cease operation
of the park except as may be provided hereinafter.
   (G)   Any person whose permit has been denied or suspended, or who has
received notice from the health and inspection officers that his or her permit
will be suspended unless certain conditions or practices at the park are
corrected, may request and shall be grated a hearing on the matter before the
Town Board of Trustees; provided that, when no petition for such hearing shall
have been filed within ten days following the day on which notice of suspension
was served, such license shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked at
the expiration of such ten day period.
   (H)   Mobile home and travel trailer parks in existence upon the effective
date of this chapter which have concrete pads indicating the location of mobile
home or travel trailer spaces need not comply with those sections of this
chapter which would require the moving of concrete pads. They must, however,
comply with all other requirements and any park expansion shall be in full
compliance with provisions of this chapter.
(`85 Code, § 13-10) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 INSPECTION OF PARKS.
   (A)   The health and/or inspection officers are authorized and directed to
make inspections to determine the condition of mobile home and travel trailer
parks located within the town in order to perform their duty of safeguarding
the health and safety of occupants of mobile home parks and of the general
public.
   (B)   The health officer shall have the power to inspect the outside
premises of private or public property for the purposes of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter or of
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (C)   The health and/or inspection officer shall have the power to inspect
the register containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants using the
park.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such mobile
home or travel trailer park or their premises at reasonable times for the
purpose of making such repairs or alterations adopted thereunder or with any
lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(`85 Code, § 13-11)
§ 151.22 NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the health and/or inspection officer determines violations of
pertinent regulations exist, he or she shall notify the license or permittee of
such alleged violation. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will affect
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other pertinent regulations;
      (4)   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days, for the performance
of any act it requires; and
      (5)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require; provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed as properly served
upon owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his
or her last known address.
   (B)   Any person affected by any notice issued under this chapter or
resulting regulations may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the Housing Appeals Board; provided, that such person small file with
the inspection officer a written request for such hearing, setting forth
briefly the grounds for such request within ten days after the day notice was
served. The filing of such request shall state the notice of suspension of
permits and licenses, except in cases of orders issued under division (E) of
this section. The hearing shall be held at the next Housing Appeals Board
meeting for which the agenda has not been completed or at a later meeting if so
requested by the petitioner should the inspection officer determine sufficient
cause for such delay exists.
   (C)   After such hearing, the health and/or inspection officer shall compile
the findings of the Housing Appeals Board as to compliance with this chapter
and pursuant regulations and shall issue an order, in writing, sustaining,
modifying or withdrawing the prior notice which shall be served as provided in
division (D) of this section. Upon failure to comply with such order, the
permit of the mobile home park or travel trailer park shall be revoked.
   (D)   Appeals from decisions of the Housing Appeals Board shall be to the
Town Board of Trustees. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Town Board
may seek relief in District Court.
   (E)   Whenever the health and/or inspection officer finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she
may, without notice of hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such
an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he or she may deem
necessary to meet the emergency, including the suspension of the permit.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Town Board of Trustees
shall be afforded a hearing at the next regular meeting even if the agenda has
been completed. The provisions of divisions (C) and (D) of this section shall
be applicable to such a hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(`85 Code, § 13-12)
§ 151.23 SUPERVISION.
   The licensee, permittee or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker shall be
charged at all times with keeping the mobile home park, its facilities and
equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or
caretaker shall be answerable with the licensee or permittee for the violation
of any provision of this chapter to which the licensee or permittee is subject.
(`85 Code, § 13-13)
§ 151.24 POSTING OF LICENSES AND TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   The license certification or temporary permit shall be conspicuously posted
in the office of or on the premises of the mobile home park or the travel
trailer park at all times.
(`85 Code, § 13-14)
§ 151.25 LOCATION AND DESIGN CONSIDERATION FOR PARKS.
   (A)   Parks shall be of three types: mobile home parks, travel trailer parks
and mixed mobile home and travel trailer parks. No travel trailer shall be
located in a mobile home park. No mobile home shall be located in a travel
trailer park. In a mixed park, separate areas shall be reserved for mobile
homes and for travel trailers; no mobile home shall be permitted in the mobile
home sector.
   (B)   All mobile home parks shall be located on a well-drained site,
properly graded to insure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of
water; drainage shall not endanger any water supply.
   (C)   The minimum area of any park shall be five acres. Parks in existence
on the effective date of this chapter can continue to operate with less than
five acres area; however, if the park is to be expanded, it must at that time
have a minimum area of five acres.
   (D)   Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than ten mobile
homes per gross acre for a mobile home park and no more than 15 travel trailers
per gross acre for a travel trailer park. (Area used for sewerage treatment
facilities shall not be included in density computations.) Mobile home spaces
shall be at least 30 feet wide where pads are closest to driveways. Travel
trailer spaces shall be at least 25 feet wide where travel trailers are located
closest to the driveway.
   (E)   Every mobile home and travel trailer space shall be clearly defined.
Mobile homes and travel trailers shall be parked in such spaces so that, at the
nearest point, they shall be ten feet from the service road, five feet from the
rear lot line and at least ten feet from the service road, five feet from the
rear lot line and at least ten feet from any other mobile home or travel
trailer.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to locate a mobile home or travel trailer less
than 25 feet from any public street or highway right-of-way or so that any part
of such mobile home or travel trailer will obstruct any roadway or walkway of
the park.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to permit a mobile home to occupy a travel
trailer space, a travel trailer to occupy a mobile home space and for any
mobile home or travel trailer to be located in a park unless in a designated
mobile home or travel trailer space.
   (H)   All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a sealed-surface driveway of
not less than 20 feet in width, if on-street parking is prohibited, and 26 feet
in width, if on-street parking is permitted on one side of the street only.
Driveways must have unobstructed access to a public street or highway.
   (I)   In mobile home or travel trailer parks existing at the effective date
of this chapter, parking on or adjacent to the street within the park is
permissible as long as it does not obstruct free movement of traffic. Whether
or not a safety hazard exists is a question to be determined by the Planning
Commission, with final appeal to the Town Board of Trustees. If, upon final
appeal before the Town Board it is determined that a safety hazard does in fact
exist, the mobile home or travel trailer park concerned will be required to
comply with the following provisions:
      (1)   In new mobile home parks, at least two clearly defined parking
spaces will be provided for each space either on or adjacent to the space;
      (2)   In new travel trailer parks, at least one parking space shall be
provided for each space either on, or adjacent to, the space.
   (J)   Outside drying spaces, or other clothes drying facilities, shall be
provided in every mobile home park or travel trailer park. Mobile home parks
shall have at least 100 linear feet of clothes drying line or one mechanical
clothes drying unit in good condition; mechanical units shall be located in a
service building. Travel trailer parks and mixed parks shall have at least 25
linear feet of outdoor clothes drying line for each travel trailer space or one
mechanical clothes drying unit for the first ten travel trailer spaces, or any
fraction thereof, and an additional unit for each ten additional travel trailer
spaces, or any fraction thereof.
   (K)   All driveways and walkways within a park shall be at least asphalt-
oil-rock sealed and surfaced.
   (L)   In the urban area, new mobile home parks should abut and have their
major means of ingress and egress on at least a secondary thoroughfare. Travel
trailer parks and mixed parks in the urban area shall abut and have their major
means of ingress and egress on at least a primary thoroughfare.
   (M)   All mobile home parks shall have and maintain a buffer planting strip,
not less than three feet in width, along all park boundaries not bordering a
street. Such strip shall consist of not less than one row of shrubs spaced not
more than eight feet apart, which grow to a height of five feet or more after
one full growing season and which will eventually grow to a height of not less
than 12 feet.
(`85 Code, § 13-15) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.26 SERVICE BUILDING FOR TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS.
   (A)   Each travel trailer park shall be provided with at least one service
building adequately equipped with flush-type toilet fixtures and other sanitary
facilities as required in this chapter. No service building shall contain less
than one toilet for females, one toilet for males, one lavatory and shower or
bathtub for each sex and one laundry tray. All sanitary facilities required by
this chapter shall be located in a service building.
   (B)   Each park accommodating travel trailers shall provide the following:
      (1)   Toilet facilities for males shall consist of not less than two
flush toilets and one urinal for the first ten travel trailers or fraction
thereof, and for travel trailers in excess of ten, not less than one additional
flush toilet and one additional urinal for every ten additional travel trailers
or fractional number thereof;
      (2)   Toilet facilities for females shall consist of not less than two
flush toilets for the first six travel trailer spaces, or any less number
thereof, and for travel trailer spaces in excess of six, not less than one
additional flush toilet for every ten additional or fractional number thereof;
      (3)   Each sex shall be provided with not less than two lavatories and
two showers or bathtubs, with individual-dressing accommodations for the first
ten travel trailer spaces or any less number thereof, and for travel trailer
spaces in excess of ten, not less than one additional lavatory and one
additional shower or bathtub, with individual dressing accommodations for every
ten additional travel spaces, or fractional number thereof;
      (4)   Each toilet for females and each shower or bathtub with individual
dressing accommodations for females shall be in private compartment or stall;
      (5)   The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and females
shall either be separate buildings or shall be separated, if in the same
building, by a soundproof wall;
      (6)   There shall be provided in a separate compartment or stall not less
than one flush toilet bowl receptacle for emptying bed pans and other
containers of human excreta or a slop sink with at least a three inch trap and
an adequate supply of hot running water for cleaning such bed pans or
containers.
   (C)   Travel trailer spaces shall not be more than 200 feet from a private
building.
   (D)   Service buildings shall:
      (1)   Be located 25 feet or more from any travel trailer space;
      (2)   Be of permanent construction and be adequately lighted;
      (3)   Be of moisture-resistant material to permit frequent washing and
cleansing;
      (4)   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of 70°F
during cold weather and to supply adequate hot water during time of peak
demands; and
      (5)   Have all rooms well-ventilated, with all openings effectively
screened.
   (E)   Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one laundry unit
to every 30 travel trailer spaces and shall be in a separate, soundproof room
of a service building or in a separate building. A laundry shall consist of not
less than one laundry and one clothes washing machine.
   (F)   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained
in a clean condition and kept free of any condition that will menace the health
of any occupant or the public or constitute a menace.
(`85 Code, § 13-16)
§ 151.27 SEWAGE DISPOSAL FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Waste from shower, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop
sinks and laundries in service and other buildings within the park shall be
discharged into a public sewer and disposal plant, septic tank system or
private sewer and lagoon system of such construction and in such manner as
approved by the Oklahoma State Department of Health and in accordance with all
applicable ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least a three inch
sewer connection at least four inches above the surface of the ground. The
sewer connection should be protected by a concrete collar at least four inches
thick and have a minimum outside diameter of 24 inches. The sewer connection
shall be fitted with a standard ferrule and close nipple and provided with a
screw cap. Connection between the mobile home drain and the sewer must be
watertight and self-draining. Mobile homes with fixtures from which back-
siphonage may occur shall not be connected to the park’s water system until the
defect has been corrected.
   (C)   In the event that a public water system is, or becomes available
within 300 feet of a mobile home or travel trailer park, connection must be
made to the public system within 180 days.
   (D)   The design of private sewage treatment facilities shall be based on
the maximum capacity of the park. Effluents from sewage treatment facilities
shall not be discharged into the watershed of the Municipal Lake or any other
waters of the state. The disposal facilities shall be located where they will
not create a nuisance or health hazard to the mobile home park or to the owner
or occupants of any adjacent property. The State Health Department must approve
the type of treatment proposed and the design of any disposal facilities and
sewer systems prior to construction.
   (E)   Every mobile home occupying a mobile home park space shall tie onto
the park sewerage system and shall dump any accumulated wastes into the system.
Every travel trailer shall dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle
provided in the travel trailer park upon entering and upon leaving the park.
Such receptacles must be approved by the Oklahoma State Health Department. Any
other dumping of accumulated waste within the town is prohibited.
   (F)   The monthly sewerage charge shall be based on the maximum mobile home
or travel trailer capacity of the park. The park operator shall, by the tenth
of each month, notify the Town Clerk of the maximum number of mobile home
spaces in use at any one time during the previous month. The Town Clerk shall
then adjust the sewerage fee to the actual use of the park. Should the park
operator fail to notify the Town Clerk of the prior month’s actual usage of
trailer or mobile home spaces, the sewerage fee shall be levied on the maximum
capacity of the park.
   (G)   Sewer connections shall be watertight. Park licensees shall maintain
trailer and mobile home connections to sewer and water systems in good
condition and be responsible that there is no sewerage or water leakage on park
premises.
   (H)   No sewer connection shall be made to travel trailer spaces.
(`85 Code, § 13-17)
§ 151.28 WATER SUPPLY FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each park, capable of furnishing a minimum of 250 gallons per day,
per mobile home space. Where a public supply of water of such quality is
available within 300 feet or becomes available within 300 feet, connection
shall be made thereto and its supply shall be used exclusively. Where private
water supplies must be developed, the health officer must approve the location,
construction and development of the water well, pipe system and connections. No
private source other than a water well shall be used.
   (B)   The water system of the mobile home park shall be connected by pipes
to all buildings and all mobile home spaces. Each mobile home shall be provided
with a cold water tap at least four inches above the ground. An adequate supply
of hot water shall be provided at all times in the service buildings for all
bathing, washing, cleansing and laundry facilities.
   (C)   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with state and local law. The water piping system shall not be connected with
nonpotable or questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back-siphonage. All water connections shall be
weathertight.
   (D)   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be of
a type and in a location approved by the health officer.
   (E)   Individual water-service connections which are provided for direct use
by mobile homes or travel trailers shall be of such construction so that they
will not be damaged by the parking of such mobile homes or travel trailers. The
park system shall be adequate to provide 20 pounds per square inch of pressure
at all mobile home or travel trailer connections.
   (F)   Provisions shall be made within 150 feet of each travel trailer space
to supply water for travel trailer reservoirs.
   (G)   No well-casing, pumps, pumping machinery or suction pipes shall be
located in any pit, room or space extending below ground level, nor in any room
or space above ground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed unless such
rooms, whether above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the
surface. All floors shall be watertight and slopes from the pump pedestal to
the drain, and floors shall extend at least two feet from the well in all
directions. The pedestal shall not be less than 12 inches above the floor. This
shall not be construed as prohibiting submersible pumps.
   (H)   All water storage reservoirs shall be watertight and constructed of
impervious material; all overflows and vents of such reservoirs shall be
effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be
constructed with overlapping covers so as to prevent the entrance of
contaminated material. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any
pipe in which sewage or polluted water may back up.
   (I)   Underground stop and waste-cocks shall not be installed on any
connections.
   (J)   No water well shall draw water from any sands reserved to the town for
its use, except as may be otherwise permitted by ordinances of the town.
   (K)   No water connections shall be made to travel trailer spaces.
(`85 Code, § 13-18)
§ 151.29 REFUSE DISPOSAL FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the park shall be so
managed as to create no health hazards, rodents harborage, insect-breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   (B)   All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight and rodent-proof
containers, which shall be located within 150 feet of any mobile home or travel
trailer space. Containers shall be provided in sufficient numbers and capacity
to properly store all refuse.
   (C)   Racks or holders shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
container racks or holders shall be so designed as to prevent containers from
being tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to
facilitate cleaning around them. Lids for containers shall be permanently
connected to racks or holders with chains or other flexible materials.
   (D)   All refuse shall be collected at least once weekly, or as otherwise
required by the health officer. Where municipal garbage collection is not
available, the mobile home park operator shall either employ a private agency
or provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in
covered vehicles or covered containers.
   (E)   Where municipal or other private disposal service is not available,
the mobile home park operator shall dispose of the refuse by burial or
transporting to an approved disposal site as directed by the health officer.
Refuse shall be buried only at locations and by methods approved by the health
officer and in accordance with the ordinances of the town.
   (F)   When municipal refuse disposal service is available, it must be used.
(`85 Code, § 13-19)
§ 151.30 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health, as
required by the health officer, shall be applied in the park.
   (B)   Effective larvicidal solutions may be required by the health officer
for fly- or mosquito-breeding areas which cannot be controlled by other, more
permanent measures.
   (C)   The health officer may require the park operator to take suitable
measures to control other insects and obnoxious weeds.
   (D)   Accumulations of debris which may provide harborage for rodents shall
not be permitted in the mobile home park.
   (E)   When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to be in the park,
the park operator shall take definite action, as directed by the health
officer, to exterminate them.
(`85 Code, § 13-20)
§ 151.31 ELECTRICITY; EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   An electrical outlet supplying at least 60 amperes shall be provided
for each mobile home space. The installation shall comply with all applicable
state and local electrical codes and ordinances. Such electrical outlets and
extension lines shall be grounded and weatherproofed. Plug receptacles shall
also be grounded and weatherproofed. No power supply line shall be permitted to
lie on the ground, and no main power line shall be suspended less than 18 feet
above the ground, unless otherwise approved by the inspection officer.
   (B)   Streets and driveways within mobile home and travel trailer parks
shall be lighted with street lights meeting the current standards of the
Illuminating Engineering Society or one half candlepower, whichever be higher.
(`85 Code, § 13-21)
§ 151.32 FUEL.
   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile homes
shall be of acceptable material, as determined by the inspection officer, and
shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place. All fuel storage
tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in place and shall not be located
inside or beneath the mobile home or less than five feet from any mobile home
exit.
(`85 Code, § 13-22)
§ 151.33 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other flammable
materials.
   (B)   Where the water supply system does not provide at least six inch water
mains, there shall be provided a two inch, frost-protected water riser within
300 feet of each mobile home or building.
   (C)   Fires shall be made only in stove and other cooking and/or heating
equipment intended for such purposes.
(`85 Code, § 13-23)
§ 151.34 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs in the park shall
be made in accordance with applicable local regulations.
   (B)   Skirting of mobile homes is permissible but areas enclosed by such
skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for rodents or
create a fire hazard.
   (C)   A permit issued by the inspecting officer shall be required before any
construction on a mobile home space or any structural addition or alteration to
the exterior of a mobile takes place. No construction, addition or alteration
to the exterior of a mobile home located in a mobile home park shall be
permitted unless of the same type of construction or materials as the mobile
home affected. All such construction, additions or alterations shall be in
compliance with applicable local and state laws. No permit shall be required
for the addition of steps, canopies, awnings or antennas.
   (D)   No structure, other than a mobile home, shall be permitted on a mobile
home space, except one structure of not to exceed 175 cubic feet, to be used
for storage, may be allowed on each such space.
(`85 Code, § 13-24)
§ 151.35 REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Each licensee or permittee shall keep a register containing a record
of all mobile home and travel trailer owners and occupants located within the
park. The register shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or occupant of each mobile home
and motor vehicle by which it is owned;
      (2)   The make, model, year and license of each mobile home and motor
vehicle;
      (3)   The state, territory or country issuing such license;
      (4)   The date of arrival and of departure of each mobile home; and
      (5)   Whether or not each mobile home is a dependent or independent
mobile home.
   (B)   The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times
by law enforcement officers, public health officials and other officials whose
duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the register.
The register record of each occupant registered shall not be destroyed for a
period of one year, following the date of departure of the registrant from the
park.
(`85 Code, § 13-25)
§ 151.36 MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Mobile home subdivisions shall comply with the adopted subdivision
regulations and zoning ordinance of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, except as
otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   The minimum size of a mobile home subdivision shall be ten acres.
   (C)   No residences except mobile homes shall be permitted in a mobile home
subdivision.
   (D)   Minimum effective lot widths in a mobile home subdivision shall be 40
feet, measured at the front building line, and minimum lot areas shall be 4,000
square feet; provided that at least a five foot side yard shall be provided on
each lot beyond any mobile home and additions thereto; and further provided,
that in areas not serviced by a public sewer, the minimum additional lot area
shall be determined by the health officer on the basis of safe and sanitary
sewer service. The effective lot width of a mobile home lot shall be determined
for interior lots by measuring at right angles across the lot from one diagonal
side line to the other and for corner lots the measurement shall be made at
right angles from the diagonal having the greatest divergence from
perpendicular to the street, through the midpoint of the rear line of the
required front yard, to the opposite lot line, or an extension thereof.
   (E)   Side lines of lots in mobile home subdivisions need not be at right
angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (F)   Regardless of the effective lot width, mobile home subdivision lots
must abut a public street for at least 25 feet.
   (G)   All mobile home subdivisions, except those developed under
Residential-Estate Zoning District standards, shall have a green belt planting
strip of not less than 20 feet in width along all subdivision boundaries. Such
green belt shall be composed of:
      (1)   One row of deciduous and/or evergreen trees, spaced not more than
40 feet apart;
      (2)   Not less than three rows of shrubs, spaced not more than 40 feet
apart; and
      (3)   Not less than three rows of shrubs, spaced not more than eight feet
apart, which grow to a height of five feet or more after one full growing
season and which shrubs will eventually grow to a height of not less than 12
feet.
(`85 Code, § 13-30)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this Code. Each day upon which such violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 13-60)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
Section
Planning Commission
   
152.01   Jurisdiction
   
152.02   Rules and regulations
   
152.03   Employees; expenditures
   
152.04   Project review procedures
   
152.05   Duties and powers
Subdivisions and Zoning
   
152.20   Subdivision review process
   
152.21   Town’s power to zone
   
152.22   Relationship of zoning to Comprehensive Plan
   
152.23   Planning Commission to be Zoning Commission
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Planning Commission, see §§
32.055 et seq.
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 152.01 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Municipal Planning Commission shall have jurisdiction over all
land within the corporate limits of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
   (B)   The jurisdictional area of the Regional Planning Commission shall
include, for the purposes of the regulation and review of land subdivision
only, any lands outside the corporate limits of the Town of Granite, whose any
one boundary at any point shall be at and within a distance of three miles from
the corporate limits of said community.
(`85 Code, § 19-2)
§ 152.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall prescribe and adopt rules and
regulations governing the transaction of its business and shall keep a public
record of its regulations, transactions and findings.
   (B)   Regular meetings shall be scheduled at least once each month.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission, in accordance with the state’s “Open Meetings” laws.
(`85 Code, § 19-3)
§ 152.03 EMPLOYEES; EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to contract for
necessary professional services within the limits of the appropriation fixed by
the Town Board of Trustees; all compensation for such services shall also be
fixed by the Town Board.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may incur other necessary expenses within the
limits of the Town Board of Trustees’ appropriation to carry out its purpose
and responsibilities.
(`85 Code, § 19-4)
§ 152.04 PROJECT REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   All projects or matters that fall within the duties and powers of the
Planning Commission (as specified in this code of ordinances) shall be referred
to said Planning Commission for investigation and report before any final
action shall be taken thereon by the Town Board of Trustees. If said Planning
Commission fails to make an investigation and report on any matter referred to
it within 60 days, or other agreed upon time, the Town Board of Trustees may
proceed to act upon such matter.
(`85 Code, § 19-5)
§ 152.05 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The Planning Commission shall have the following duties and powers:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the Town Board of Trustees for adoption a
Comprehensive Plan for the future development of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma,
and to ensure that the Plan, once prepared and adopted, is properly utilized
and updated at appropriate intervals;
   (B)   To make recommendations concerning the community’s growth, improvement
and beautification;
   (C)   To investigate and report to the Town Board of Trustees on all matters
relating to the location and development of parks and recreational areas,
streets, public grounds and structures;
   (D)   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the Town Board of Trustees
for adoption a suitable zoning ordinance to assist in the implementation of the
community’s Comprehensive Plan and to assist the Town Board in administering
the zoning ordinance;
   (E)   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the Town Board of Trustees
for adoption rules and standards for use in regulating the subdivision of land
within the Planning Commission’s jurisdictional area and to assist the Town
Board in administering the land subdivision regulations; and
   (F)   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the Town Board of Trustees
for adoption such other rules, regulations or standards as may be necessary to
implement the Comprehensive Plan for the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 19-6)
Cross reference:
   Municipal Planning Commission, see §§
32.055 et seq.
SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
§ 152.20 SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   All subdivision plats or replats of land laid out in plats or lots and
the streets, alleys or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated to
public or private use located within the jurisdictional area of either the
Municipal or Regional Planning Commission shall first be submitted to the
Planning Commission for its review.
   (B)   If the subdivision plat or replat is located within the corporate
limits of the town, final approval, prior to the filing of the plat or replat
with the Greer County Clerk, shall be obtained from the Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   If the subdivision plat or replat is located within the jurisdictional
area of the community’s Regional Planning Commission, but outside of the
corporate boundaries of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, approval of the
community’s Regional Planning Commission shall be obtained prior to the filing
of said plat or replat with the Greer County Clerk.
   (D)   In reviewing subdivision plats or replats, the Planning Commission and
the Town Board of Trustees shall utilize the definitions, procedures and design
and improvement standards in the “Subdivision Regulations” adopted by and for
the Town of Granite, Oklahoma, or the appropriate jurisdictional area and
entity.
(`85 Code, § 19-20)
§ 152.21 TOWN’S POWER TO ZONE.
   (A)   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety and welfare of all
citizens of the community, the Town Board of Trustees is empowered to regulate
and restrict the height, number of stories and size of structures, the
percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size of yards and other open
spaces, the density of population and the location and use of structures and
land.
   (B)   For any of the above purposes, the Town Board of Trustees may divide
the municipality into zoning districts of such number, shape and area as may be
deemed most beneficial to the community. Within such zoning districts, the
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of structures
or land may be regulated. All such regulations shall be uniform throughout each
district, but the regulations in any zoning district may differ from those in
other districts.
(`85 Code, § 19-10)
§ 152.22 RELATIONSHIP OF ZONING TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   Any zoning ordinance adopted by the Town Board of Trustees shall be made
subsequent to the preparation of, and in accordance with, the community’s
adopted Comprehensive Plan.
(`85 Code, § 19-11)
§ 152.23 PLANNING COMMISSION TO BE ZONING COMMISSION.
   To avail itself of the powers of state law, the Municipal Planning
Commission is designated as the Zoning Commission of the Town of Granite,
Oklahoma.
(`85 Code, § 19-12)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(`85 Code, § 19-49)
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
153.08   Establishment of development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.13   Severability
   
153.14   Floodplain management fee schedule
Administration
   
153.25   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.26   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.27   Permit procedures
   
153.28   Variances
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   General standards
   
153.41   Specific standards
   
153.42   Standards for subdivisions
   
153.43   Floodways
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Additional building regulations, see §
150.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Oklahoma has in 11 O.S. §§ 41—47, as
amended, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
ordinances designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the Town of Granite,
Oklahoma, ordains the provisions of this chapter, to become effective
immediately.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the Town of Granite are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include but are not
limited to garages and storage sheds.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within the town
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or l% chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BFE. Base flood elevation.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the Town of Granite Floodplain
Administrator which authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in
accordance with this chapter.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built, in the case of a building
in Zones AE, A, and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
flood up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones AE, A, and X,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January l, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before August 4, 1972.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIRM. Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. An official map of the town on which FEMA has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
applicable to the town.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by FEMA for the town
which contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base flood, as
well as the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within the town subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of
the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane
tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood
modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
standards.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by
the Board of Trustees of the Town of Granite to administer and implement laws,
ordinances and regulations relating to the management of floodplains.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOOD).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances (such as floodplain. grading and erosion control regulations and
ordinances) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A FLOODWAY is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in §
153.07. A FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior, or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of Title 44 CFR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the town’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by the Town of Granite Board of Trustees and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the town.
   OWRB. The Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Public Law 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures that have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions, or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic
structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the Town of Granite Board of Trustees to a
person from the terms of this chapter when specific enforcement would result in
unnecessary hardship. A VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or
development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full
requirements see § 60.6 of Title 44 CFR.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the Town of Granite, Oklahoma.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled, “The Flood Insurance Study for Greer County,
Oklahoma and Incorporated Areas” dated April 3, 2012, with the accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) are hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of these regulations. However until April 3, 2012, the            and
the flood prone areas identified by the USGS on Greer County Flood Prone Areas
Map Panel named Granite compiled from soil surveys dated 1973 shall hereby be
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and any
other ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the Town of Granite or any official
or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.13 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.14 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Town of Granite Board of Trustees establishes the following fee schedule
not to exceed $500 for any one service:
   (A)   Notice of intent fee: $25 maximum.
   (B)   Floodplain development permit application review: $ 100.
   (C)   Floodplain development permit fee: $ 25.
   (D)   Inspection fee—per inspection: $25.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.25 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Board of Trustees of the Town of Granite designates the Granite Utility
Director as Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter and other appropriate sections of National Flood Insurance
Program regulations in Title 44 CFR pertaining to floodplain management.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.26 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601—1618,
as amended.
   (B)   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed building
sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this chapter.
   (D)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have
been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from
which prior approval are required.
   (E)   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as to
the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions).
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the FEMA.
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   (H)   Shall require the developer/applicant to determine and provide the
base flood elevation on a FEMA elevation certificate as well as other data as
required in order to administer the provisions of §§
153.40 through
153.43.
   (I)   When a floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain Administrator
must require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zone AE as delineated on
the Greer County FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the town.
   (J)   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures in
the town, determine if the residential and non-residential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement.
   (K)   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a decision
of the Board of Trustees.
   (L)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.27 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; and
      (2)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator or Board of Trustees, as applicable, may
approve certain development in Zones A or AE delineated on the Greer County
FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than
one foot, provided that the applicant for the development permit in that case
first complies with 44 CFR § 65.12.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.28 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees of the Town of Granite may grant variances
for uses which do not satisfy the requirements of the Oklahoma Floodplain
Management Act or this chapter if the applicant for the variance presents
adequate proof that (i) compliance with this chapter will result in an
arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property without sufficient benefit or
advantage to the people and (ii) satisfies the pertinent provisions of this
section. However, no variance shall be granted where the effect of the variance
will be to permit the continuance of a condition which unreasonably creates
flooding hazards.
      (2)   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the Oklahoma Floodplain
Management Act or by other laws of the state.
      (3)   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than 20
years.
      (4)   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the Board
of Trustees, accompanied by a filing fee of $25.
      (5)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
153.27(B) and provisions of this section have been fully considered. As the lot
size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required
for issuing the variance increases.
      (6)   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base
flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the Chairman of the Board of
Trustees which states that (i) the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate
with the increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built
lower than the base flood elevation, and (ii) such construction below the base
flood level increases risks to life and property.
      (7)   At such time as the Board of Trustees deems the petition ready for
notification to the public, the Board of Trustees shall schedule a hearing and
direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in Greer County at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
      (8)   The Board of Trustees shall conduct the hearing and make
determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section.
The Board of Trustees shall exercise wide discretion in
weighing the equities involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the
applicant and to the public at large when determining whether the variance
shall be granted.
      (9)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances; and
         (d)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (10)   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this section and the
intent of this chapter, the Board of Trustees may attach such conditions to the
granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives stated in §
153.03.
      (11)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any
variance issued by the Floodplain Board shall be sent by the Floodplain
Administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within 15 days after issuance of the
variance.
   (B)   Special provisions.
      (1)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (3)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that:
         (a)   The criteria of divisions (A)(5), (A)(9), (B)(2) and (B)(3) are
met, and
         (b)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated at least one foot or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) is
satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one foot or
above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect,
or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the Floodplain Administrator
that the standard of this division (B) is satisfied.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes. Require that all manufactured homes to be placed
anywhere within the community in Flood Zones A and/or AE on the Greer County
FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage
and have the bottom of the I-beam elevated at least one foot or above the base
flood elevation. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must
be elevated and anchored to a permanent foundation to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces. The home
shall be installed by a licensed installer according to Oklahoma state law and
compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A and AE on the Greer County FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements of §
153.27, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes in
division (D) above. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
   (F)   Accessory structure. Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
Zones A and AE on the Greer County FIRM shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
      (2)   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
      (3)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include but are not limited to working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
      (4)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE;
      (5)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential
and constructed with flood resistance materials;
      (7)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement;
      (8)   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
      (9)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
      (10)   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located in
Zones A and AE which is 51 or more lots or greater than five acres shall
generate the base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
   (B)   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   (C)   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.43 FLOODWAYS.
   The following provisions shall apply to floodways:
   (A)   Encroachments, including but not limited to fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development are prohibited within the
adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the Town of Granite during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Town of Granite may permit encroachments within the adopted
floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided
that the applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 CFR §
65.12.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate or other certifications required in this chapter is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500 for each violation or spend
more than one year in jail, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Board of
Trustees of the Town of Granite or its Town Attorney from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 226, passed - -12)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   LEASING OF PROPERTY
      
III.   STREET OPENINGS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing a tract of land to the town that is 181 feet long
                     east and west and 140 feet wide north and south located at
                     the northeast corner of a tract of land described as all
179      7-7-87      of the east half of all of the land lying between parallel
                     lines of a continuation of Third and Fourth Streets in
                     Granite, to the west lines of Section 26, Township 6
                     North, Range 21 West I.M., said land bounded on the east
                     by Ann Street.
                     Annexing to and including within the corporate limits of
99-211   11-22-99    the town a certain tract of land lying in the northwest
                     quarter of Section 36, Township 6 North, Range 21 W.I.M.,
                     commonly referred to as 300 E First Street.
                     Annexing to and including within the corporate limits all
                     property located in Section 36, Township 6, North, Range
                     21 W.I.M., and all property located in Section 31,
218      6-23-03     Township 6, North, Range 20 W.I.M. for notification of the
                     annexation, and temporarily classifying the properties as
                     commercial in compliance with §
                     152.21 of the town zoning ordinance.
 
TABLE II: LEASING OF PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Providing for leasing an 11.76 acre tract of land to the
207      3-1-99      Trustees of the Quartz Mountain Regional Water Authority
                     located in the northwest quarter of Section 21, Township 6
                     North, Range 20 West, I.M., Kiowa County.
                     Providing for second amendment to the lease agreement
—      11-4-05     between the town and the Granite Public Works Authority
                     (50-year lease).
                    
 
TABLE III: STREET OPENINGS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
195      6-7-93      Opening the 500 block on East Second Street in the town
                     for public use.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to 1985 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cite Code Section
O.S. Cite                      Code Section
Title 11                       34.35
11 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.    Chapter 10
11 O.S. § 14-108              10.01
11 O.S. § 14-109              10.01
11 O.S. § 14-111              10.99
11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.    Chapter 10
11 O.S. § 27-119              10.99
11 O.S. § 27-126              34.33
11 O.S. § 41—47             153.01
20 O.S. § 1313.1              33.07
21 O.S. § 1704                133.01
22 O.S. §§ 1161 et seq.      30.19
25 O.S. §§ 301—314         111.03
37 O.S. §§ 501—556         111.01
37 O.S. § 506                 111.02
itle 47                        70.001
itle 47, Chapter 7, Article VI 70.081
47 O.S. §§ 1-101—1-186     70.001
47 O.S. § 7-204               70.081
47 O.S. § 7-503               70.081
63 O.S. §§ 701—708         110.03
63 O.S. §§ 2251—2265       53.02
68 O.S. § 205                 35.04,
                               35.32
68 O.S. § 217                 35.04,
                               35.28
68 O.S. § 220                 35.04,
                               35.29
68 O.S. § 227                 35.04,
                               35.30
                               35.16,
68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.      35.21,
                               35.22
68 O.S. §§ 1352 et seq.      35.16
68 O.S. § 1408                35.04
75 O.S. §§ 309—317         31.04
82 O.S. § 926.1               96.04
82 O.S. §§ 1601—1618       153.26
                               
 
REFERENCES TO 1985 CODE
1985 Code Section 2003 Code Section
1985 Code Section 2003 Code Section
1-1               30.01
1-2               30.02
1-3               30.03
1-10              30.15
1-11              30.16
1-12              30.17
1-13              30.18
1-14              30.19
1-25              31.01
1-26              31.02
1-27              31.03
1-28(1)           32.001
1-28(2)           32.002
1-28(3)           32.003
1-28(4)           32.004
1-28(5)           32.005
1-28(6)           32.006
1-28(11)          32.008
1-28(16)          32.009
1-28(17)          32.010
1-28(18)          32.011
1-29              31.04
1-30              31.05
1-31              31.06
1-32              31.06
1-33              31.07
1-34              31.08
1-35              31.09
1-36              31.10
1-38(1)           32.025
1-38(2)           32.026
1-39(1)           32.040
1-39(2)           32.041
1-39(3)           32.042
1-39(4)           32.043
1-40(1)           32.055
1-40(2)           32.056
1-40(3)           32.057
1-40(5)           32.059
1-40(6)           32.060
1-41              32.135
1-43(1)           32.090
1-43(2)           32.091
1-44(1)           32.105
1-44(2)           32.106
1-44(3)           32.107
1-44(4)           32.108
1-45              31.11
1-45(1)           32.120
1-45(2)           32.121
1-45(3)           32.122
1-45(4)           32.123
1-46              31.12
1-50              35.01
1-51              35.02
1-52              35.03
1-53              33.07
1-60              35.15
1-62              35.17
1-63              35.18
1-64              35.19
1-66              35.20
1-67              35.21
1-68              35.22
1-69              35.22
1-70              35.23
1-71              35.24
1-72              35.25
1-73              35.26
1-74              35.27
1-75              35.28
1-76              35.29
1-77              35.30
1-78              35.31
1-79              35.32
1-80              35.33
1-81              35.34
1-85              33.01
1-90              33.02
1-91              33.02
1-92              33.02
1-93              33.02
1-94              33.02
1-95              33.02
1-100             33.06
1-101             33.06
1-102             33.06
1-146             31.13
1-147             31.14
1-148             30.30
1-149             30.31
1-150             30.32
1-151             30.33
1-152             30.34
1-153             30.35
2-1               111.01
2-2               111.02
2-5               111.15
2-6               111.16
2-15              111.30
2-16              111.31
2-17              111.32
2-25              111.45
2-26              111.46
2-27              111.47
2-29              111.48
2-30              111.49
2-40              111.03
2-50              111.99
3-1               92.01
3-2               92.21
3-3               92.22
3-4               92.23
3-5               92.02
3-6               92.24
3-7               92.25
3-8               92.26
3-9               92.03
3-10              92.27
3-11              92.28
3-12              92.29
3-13              92.30
3-14              92.04
3-15              92.05
3-25              92.20
3-45              92.99
4-1               150.25
4-2               150.26
4-3               150.27
4-4               150.28
4-5               150.29
4-6               150.30
4-15              150.45
4-16              150.46
4-17              150.47
4-18              150.48
4-19              150.49
4-20              150.50
4-25              150.01
4-26              150.02
4-27              150.03
4-28              150.04
4-29              150.05
4-30              150.06
4-31              150.07
4-32              150.08
4-33              150.09
4-34              150.10
4-35              150.11
4-40              150.99
5-1               110.01
5-2               110.01
5-30              110.02
5-31              110.03
5-33              110.04
5-45              110.99
6-1               91.01
6-2               91.02
6-3               91.03
6-4               91.04
6-5               91.05
6-6               91.06
6-7               91.07
6-8               91.08
6-9               91.09
6-10              91.10
6-11              91.11
6-12              91.12
6-13              91.13
6-14              91.14
6-15              91.99
8-1               93.01
8-2               93.02
8-10              93.03
8-20              93.04
8-21              93.04
8-30              93.99
10-1              94.15
10-2              94.16
10-3              94.17
10-10             94.30
10-11             94.31
10-12             94.32
10-13             94.33
10-20             94.03
10-35             94.01
10-36             94.02
10-37             94.99
11-1              52.15
11-2              52.16
11-3              52.17
11-10             52.18
11-11             52.19
11-12             52.20
11-13             52.21
11-14             52.22
11-15             52.23
11-16             52.24
11-17             52.25
11-18             52.26
11-25             52.99
13-1              151.01
13-2              151.02
13-3              151.03
13-4              151.04
13-5              151.05
13-10             151.20
13-11             151.21
13-12             151.22
13-13             151.23
13-14             151.24
13-15             151.25
13-16             151.26
13-17             151.27
13-18             151.28
13-19             151.29
13-20             151.30
13-21             151.31
13-22             151.32
13-23             151.33
13-24             151.34
13-25             151.35
13-30             151.36
13-60             151.99
14-1              34.01
14-2              34.02
14-11             34.15
14-12             34.16
14-13             34.17
14-14             34.18
14-15             34.19
14-16             34.20
14-17             34.21
14-18             34.22
14-19             34.23
14-20             34.24
14-21             34.25
14-22             34.26
14-23             34.27
14-24             34.28
14-25             34.29
14-26             34.30
14-27             34.31
14-28             34.32
14-29             34.33
14-30             34.34
14-31             34.35
14-32             34.36
14-40             34.99
15-1              95.01
15-2              95.02
15-3              95.03
15-4              95.04
15-5              95.05
15-6              95.06
15-7              95.07
15-10             95.20
15-11             95.21
15-12             95.21
15-13             95.23
15-14             95.23
15-15             95.25
15-16             95.26
15-17             95.27
15-18             95.28
15-19             95.29
15-20             95.30
15-25             95.99
16-1              130.01
16-2              130.02
16-3              130.03
16-4              130.04
16-10             131.01
16-11             131.02
16-12             131.03
16-13             131.04
16-14             131.06
16-15             131.07
16-16             131.08
16-17             131.09
16-18             131.10
16-19             131.11
16-20             131.12
16-30             132.01
16-31             132.02
16-32             132.03
16-33             132.04
16-34             132.05
16-40             130.20
16-50             133.01
16-51             133.02
16-52             133.03
16-53             133.04
16-54             133.05
16-55             133.06
16-56             133.07
16-57             133.08
16-58             133.09
16-59             97.01
16-60             97.02
16-61             97.03
16-62             97.04
16-63             97.05
16-64             97.05
16-70             134.01
16-71             134.02
16-72             134.03
16-73             134.04
16-74             134.05
16-75             134.06
16-76             134.07
16-77             134.08
16-78             134.09
16-79             134.10
16-90             130.99
17-1              112.01
17-10             112.02
17-11             112.03
17-12             112.04
17-13             112.05
17-14             112.06
17-25             112.99
19-2              152.01
19-3              152.02
19-4              152.03
19-5              152.04
19-6              152.05
19-10             152.21
19-11             152.22
19-12             152.23
19-20             152.20
19-49             152.99
20-1              50.01
20-2              50.02
20-3              50.03
20-4              50.04
20-5              50.05
20-6              50.06
20-7              50.07
20-8              50.08
20-9              50.09
20-10             50.10
20-11             50.11
20-12             50.12
20-13             50.13
20-14             50.14
20-15             50.15
20-20             51.01
20-21             51.02
20-22             51.03
20-23             51.04
20-24             51.05
20-25             51.06
20-26             51.07
20-27             51.08
20-29             51.10
20-30             51.11
20-32             51.13
20-40             52.01
20-41             52.02
20-42             52.03
20-48             53.01
20-49             53.02
20-50             53.03
20-51             53.04
20-52             53.05
20-53             53.06
20-54             53.07
20-55             53.08
20-56             53.09
20-63             54.35
20-64             54.36
20-65             54.37
20-66             54.38
20-67             54.39
20-68             54.40
20-69             54.41
20-70             54.42
20-71             54.43
20-72             54.44
20-73             54.45
20-74             54.46
20-75             54.47
20-76             54.48
20-77             54.49
20-78             54.15
20-79             54.16
20-80             54.17
20-81             54.18
20-82             54.19
20-83             54.20
20-84             54.20
20-85             54.20
20-86             54.21
20-87             54.01
20-88             54.02
20-95             55.20
20-96             55.03
20-97             55.03
20-98             55.03
20-99             55.04
20-101            55.21
20-103            55.23
20-104            55.24
20-105            55.25
20-106            55.26
20-107            55.27
20-108            55.28
20-109            55.29
20-110            55.30
20-111            55.31
20-112            55.32
20-113            55.33
20-114            55.34
20-115            55.35
20-116            55.36
20-117            55.02
20-118            55.01
20-121            50.16
20-122            50.17
20-131            50.99
21-1              96.01
21-2              96.02
21-3              96.03
21-4              96.04
21-20             96.99
22-1              70.001
22-5              71.01
22-6              71.02,
                  73.04
22-7              70.002
22-8              70.003
22-9              70.004
22-10             71.03
22-11             70.005
22-12             71.04
22-13             71.05
22-14             71.06
22-15             71.07
22-16             71.08
22-17             71.09
22-25             70.025
22-26             70.026
22-27             70.027
22-28             70.028
22-29             70.029
22-30             70.030
22-35             70.045
22-36             70.046
22-45             70.060
22-46             70.061
22-47             70.062
22-48             70.063
22-49             70.064
22-50             70.065
22-51             70.066
22-52             70.067
22-65             72.01
22-66             72.02
22-67             72.03
22-68             72.04
22-69             72.05
22-70             72.06
22-80             73.02
22-81             73.03
22-82             73.04
22-83             73.04
22-90             71.10
22-91             71.10
22-92             71.10
22-100            70.080
22-101            70.081
22-102            70.082
22-103            70.083
22-110            70.006
22-111            70.007
22-112            70.008
22-113            70.009
22-114            70.010
22-115            71.11
22-116            70.011
22-117            70.012
22-118            71.12
22-119            71.13
22-120            71.14
22-121            71.15
22-122            71.16
22-123            71.17
22-124            71.18
22-135            70.999
23-5              11.01
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
171      12-23-85    97.02
172      12-23-85    93.03
173      2-20-86     55.22
174      8-11-86     53.05
176      1-26-87     30.18
179      7-7-87      T.S.O. I
180      8-4-87      30.18
181      3-28-88     92.30
182      6-13-88     73.04
184      9-12-88     30.18
185      10-10-88    93.03
186      8-14-89     31.04
187      8-14-89     110.01
188      9-25-89     90.01
190      3-11-91     33.05
191      - -         35.04
192      3-8-93      111.33
193      5-10-93     92.20
194      6-7-93      95.20
195      6-7-93      T.S.O. III
196      8-9-93      131.05
196-A    9-13-93     131.05
197      4-10-95     132.06
199      6-6-96      30.19
200      6-24-96     33.03
201      1-13-97     150.07
202      7-14-97     53.10
203      11-10-97    50.07
204      11-10-97    33.04
207      3-1-99      T.S.O. II
209      4-12-99     132.07
210      4-12-99     132.08
99-211   11-22-99    T.S.O. I
212      3-13-00     92.20
213      8-13-01     33.03
215      4-14-03     33.03
216      6-23-03     71.19
217      6-23-03     50.07
218      6-23-03     T.S.O. I
                     35.16,
219      3-8-04      35.20,
                     35.21
220      5-10-04     31.02
221      4-11-05     33.04
—      11-4-05     T.S.O. II
222      1-9-06      31.04
223      9-11-06     35.04
224      4-11-08     131.13
225      3-10-09     33.03
                     153.01 -
                     153.14,
                     153.25 -
226      - -12       153.28,
                     153.40 -
                     153.43,
                     153.99
227      10-14-14    33.03
                    
 
