GUTHRIE, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 3412, passed 5-21-24 and Res. 2023-37,
passed 10-3-23
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor                Steven J. Gentling
City Council Members
Ward I:               Adam Ropp
                      Jim Case
Ward II:              Brian Bothroyd
                      Jeff Taylor
Ward III:             Tracy Williams
                      Grant Aguirre
City Manager         Eddie Faulkner
City Clerk/Treasurer Kim Biggs
City Attorney        William Wheeler, Jr.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 3100
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOB THE CITY OF GUTHRIE, OKLAHOMA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF GUTHRIE DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE
OF ORDINANCES.
      WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of
Guthrie are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
      WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Oklahoma empower and
authorize the City of Guthrie to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
      WHEREAS, the Mayor and Council of the City of Guthrie has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
Guthrie of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in
book form; and
      WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes effect
at an early date.
      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GUTHRIE:
      Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Guthrie as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma."
      Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall
consist of the following Titles:
   Chapter 1:   Agencies, Officers and Employees
   Chapter 2:   Alcoholic Beverages
   Chapter 3:   Animals
   Chapter 4:   Building, Plumbing and Electricity
   Chapter 5:   Business and Occupations
   Chapter 6:   Cemeteries
   Chapter 7:   City Finance and Business
   Chapter 8:   Fire Prevention
   Chapter 9:   Garbage and Other Refuse
   Chapter 10:   General and Miscellaneous Provisions
   Chapter 11:   Health and Safety
   Chapter 12:   Municipal Court
   Chapter 13:   Nuisance
   Chapter 14:   Offenses
   Chapter 15:   Parks and Recreation
   Chapter 16:   Planning and Zoning
   Chapter 17:   Private Property
   Chapter 18:   Public Utilities
   Chapter 19:   Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Areas
   Chapter 20:   Traffic
   Chapter 21:   Transportation
   Chapter 22:   Cable Television
   Chapter 23:   Telecommunications Facilities
   Table of Special Ordinances
   Fee Schedule
   Parallel References
      Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in
such Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective
date of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or
in part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property;
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
      Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of they day of its
adoption and approval by the Mayor and Council and the Clerk of the City of
Guthrie is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
      Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
PASSED and ADOPTED by the Mayor and Council of the City of Guthrie on this 19th
day of March, 2002.
                                   
   Jon Gurnerson, Mayor
ATTEST: (Seal)
                                      
Wanda Calvert, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM:
                                     
Randel Shadid, City Attorney
CITY CHARTER
Preamble
Articles
I. Organization and Powers
   Section
1-1.   Incorporation
   Section
1-2.   Municipal Boundaries
   Section
1-3.   Powers of the City
   Section
1-4.   Authority to Accept Gifts of Property
   Section
1-5.   Powers Not Limited
   Section
1-6.   Ordinances Continued; Pending Actions and Proceedings
   Section
1-7.   Public Works; Condemnation Limited
II. Elective Officers, Their Duties and Powers
   Section
2-1.   Mayor and Council
   Section
2-2.   Governing Body
   Section
2-3.   Candidacy for Office
   Section
2-4.   Ward Boundaries
   Section
2-5.   Terms of Office
   Section
2-6.   Mayor; Ballots
   Section
2-7.   Council; Ballots
   Section
2-8.   Compensation
   Section
2-9.   Oath of Office
   Section
2-10.   Mayor; Duties
   Section
2-11.   Vice-Mayor; Appointment; Duties
   Section
2-12.   Filling Vacancies in Office
   Section
2-13.   Mayor and Council; Vacancies
   Section
2-14.   Meetings; Regular and Special
   Section
2-15.   Council to Appoint Officers
   Section
2-16.   Quorum
   Section
2-17.   Recall and Removal Applicable
   Section
2-18.   Council to Determine Salaries
   Section
2-19.   Council to Regulate Fiscal Affairs
   Section
2-20.   Authority to Investigate Municipal Affairs
   Section
2-21.   Authority to Appoint Subordinates, Commissions and Boards
   Section
2-22.   Acquisition and Sale of Real Property
   Section
2-23.   Authority to Create Departments
   Section
2-24.   Authority to Enact Municipal Legislation
   Section
2-25.   Oaths
   Section
2-26.   Authority to Grant Pardons
   Section
2-27.   Council Not to Interfere in Appointments and Removals
   Section
2-28.   General Powers; Charter Prevailing
   Section
2-29.   Fiscal Year
   Section
2-30.   Increase in Utility Rates
III. Duties of Appointive Officers
   Section
3-1.   City Manager; Powers and Duties
   Section
3-2.   Acting City Manager
   Section
3-3.   City Manager Bond
   Section
3-4.   City Treasurer; Powers and Duties
   Section
3-5.   City Treasurer; Bond
   Section
3-6.   City Clerk; Powers and Duties
   Section
3-7.   City Attorney; Powers and Duties
   Section
3-8.   City Judge; Powers and Duties
   Section
3-9.   City Judge to Determine Rules of Court
IV. Personal Property Purchase and Bid Procedure
   Section
4-1.   Purchases and Sales
   Section
4-2.   Public Improvements
V. Municipal Court
   Section
5-1.   Policies and Procedures
VI. Municipal Elections
   Section
6-1.   County to Conduct Elections
   Section
6-2.   Notification to County
   Section
6-3.   Elections; Time and Manner
   Section
6-4.   Candidacy; When Filing Fee Required
   Section
6-5.   Ballots Not to State Party Affiliation
   Section
6-6.   Certification of Results
   Section
6-7.   Mayor to Provide Map
   Section
6-8.   Eligibility to Vote
   Section
6-9.   Mayor to Provide Charter
   Section
6-10.   Election Expenses
   Section
6-11.   Elections; Date
   Section
6-12.   Notice and Publication of Election
   Section
6-13.   Nomination
   Section
6-14.   Preparation of Ballot
   Section
6-15.   Special Elections; Council Resolution or Order
   Section
6-16.   Mayor and Council; Qualifications
   Section
6-17.   Section "S” Repealed
VII. Recall
   Section
7-1.   Council Subject to Recall
   Section
7-2.   Initiating Recall Proceedings and Petition
   Section
7-3.   Requirements of Petition
   Section
7-4.   City Clerk to Determine Sufficiency of Petition
   Section
7-5.   Date of Recall Election
   Section
7-6.   Multiple Recalls
   Section
7-7.   Results of Recall
   Section
7-8.   Charter to Govern Recall Elections
   Section
7-9.   Recalled Official Not to Hold Office or Employment
VIII. Ordinance, Resolutions and Motions
   Section
8-1.   Ordinances; Enacting Clause
   Section
8-2.   Single Subject Required; Amendment
   Section
8-3.   Ordinances; Publication
   Section
8-4.   Ordinances; When Effective
   Section
8-5.   Certain Emergency Ordinances Prohibited
   Section
8-6.   Ordinances; Emergency
   Section
8-7.   Ordinances; Passage; Recording Ayes and Noes
   Section
8-8.   Adoption by Reference
   Section
8-9.   Ordinances; Authentication
   Section
8-10.   Ordinances; Codification
   Section
8-11.   Resolutions; Passage
   Section
8-12.   Approval of Contracts
IX. General Provisions
   Section
9-1.   Political Activity of Appointive Officers or Employees
   Section
9-2.   Expenses of Franchise Elections
   Section
9-3.   Liability of Officers for Illegal Payments
   Section
9-4.   Dual Office Holding; Compatibility of Offices
   Section
9-5.   Automobile Expenses Limited
   Section
9-6.   Appointments Not for Definite Term
   Section
9-7.   Conflicts of Interest
   Section
9-8.   Nepotism
   Section
9-9.   Waiting-period for Employment of Council Members
   Section
9-10.   General Obligation Bonds
   Section
9-11.   Amendment; Proposal
   Section
9-12.   Acceptance of Certain Gifts Prohibited
   Section
9-13.   Removal from Office
   Section
9-14.   Publication of Charter
   Section
9-15.   Clarification
   Section
9-16.   Separability Clause
   Section
9-17.   Feminine Gender
   Section
9-18.   Abstention from Voting
Cross-reference:
   General and miscellaneous provisions, see
Ch. 10
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the City of Guthrie, Logan County, Oklahoma, under the
authority of the Constitution of the State of Oklahoma, do ordain and establish
this charter for the City of Guthrie.
ARTICLE I. ORGANIZATION AND POWERS
SECTION 1-1. INCORPORATION.
   The inhabitants within the boundaries hereinafter defined, and their
successors, are hereby created and organized a Municipal Corporation and body
politic with perpetual succession under the name “The City of Guthrie,” and
shall succeed to own and possess all the property, rights, privileges,
franchises, powers and immunities now belonging to the present corporation
known as the City of Guthrie, and shall be liable for all debts and obligations
which the present corporation is now liable, and shall have the power to adopt
a common seal and alter the same at pleasure, to sue and be sued in all courts,
to make contracts, to take and acquire property by purchase, condemnation or
otherwise, and to hold, lease, mortgage, convey or otherwise dispose of any of
its property within or without the limits of said city, and it shall have such
other powers, rights, privileges, franchises and immunities as are granted and
conferred by any other parts of this Charter or by the Constitution and the
laws of the State of Oklahoma.
SECTION 1-2. MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of said City, and the respective wards thereof, shall until
altered as provided by law be the same as at the time of the adoption of this
charter amendment.
SECTION 1-3. POWERS OF THE CITY.
   Said City shall also have all other powers that may hereafter be given it by
the Constitution and the laws of this State, and where any provisions of this
charter shall be in conflict with any law or laws relating to cities, the
provisions of this charter shall prevail, and said City shall have the power to
enact and enforce all ordinances necessary to protect health, life and
property, and to define, prevent, and summarily abate and remove nuisances; and
to preserve and enforce good government and order, to protect the lives,
health, and the property of the inhabitants thereof. The City shall have the
power to engage directly or indirectly in advocacy calculated to influence
legislative and administrative matters at all levels of government.
SECTION 1-4. AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT GIFTS OF PROPERTY.
   Said City may receive bequests, gifts and donations of all kinds of property
in fee simple or in trust for charitable or public purposes and perform all
acts necessary to carry out the purposes of such benefits, gifts, donations or
trusts, with power to manage, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of same in
accordance with the terms of the bequest, gift, donation or trust.
SECTION 1-5. POWERS NOT LIMITED.
   The legislative, executive and judicial powers of the City shall extend to
all matters of local and municipal government, it being the intent hereof that
the specification of particular powers by any other provision of this charter
shall never be construed as limiting or impairing the effect of the general
grant of powers hereby made.
SECTION 1-6. ORDINANCES CONTINUED; PENDING ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS.
   All existing ordinances of the City not inconsistent with this charter or
inapplicable under the municipal government provided by this charter shall be
and continue in full force and effect until amended or repealed or until they
expire by their own limitations, and no existing right, action (civil or
penal), suit, proceeding, or contract, shall be affected by the change in the
form of government of the City; but all shall continue as though no such change
had taken place; and all debts, penalties and forfeitures which have accrued,
or which may hereafter accrue by virtue of anything heretofore done or
existing, shall inure to the benefit of the City of Guthrie and may be sued for
and recovered by the City as though this charter had not been amended. Nothing
herein, however, shall legalize or make legal any invalid indebtedness of the
City heretofore contracted or incurred or impair any defense against the
payment of the same, nor shall the amendment of this charter in any wise
interfere with any proceedings heretofore instituted relating to the levy and
collection of taxes, special assessments, or levies of any nature, or with any
proceedings to enforce the payment of the same, and all contracts heretofore
entered into by the City shall remain in full force and effect and be completed
under the ordinances existing at the time of the amendment of this charter.
SECTION 1-7. PUBLIC WORKS; CONDEMNATION LIMITED.
   Said City shall have power, within and without its territorial limits, to
construct, condemn, purchase, acquire, lease, improve, add to, maintain and
conduct and operate in whole or in part, water works, water pipelines and pump
stations, light plants, telephone systems, power plants, transportation
systems, heating plants, incinerating plants and disposal plants, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers and drains, and any other public utility or works or ways,
and everything required therefore. And any such systems, plants, works, or ways
or any contracts in relation or connection therewith that may exist and which
said City may desire to purchase in whole or in part maybe purchased or
acquired, in whole or in part, by said City which may enforce said purchase by
proceeding at law or in equity or by right of eminent domain, said City shall
have the power to issue bonds upon the vote of the tax paying electors at any
special or general election in any amount necessary to carry out any of said
powers or purposes, said amount being alone limited by the Constitution of the
State of Oklahoma. Provided, however, that the power to condemn shall not be
exercised for the purpose of acquiring such utilities now existing and
operating under franchise granted by a vote of the people except under the
terms of said franchise. Provided, further, that the same exemption from the
power to condemn may be embodied in any franchise for any other public service
or public utility corporation that may be hereafter submitted to a vote of the
people.
ARTICLE II. ELECTIVE OFFICERS, THEIR DUTIES AND POWERS
SECTION 2-1. MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   The elective officers of the City of Guthrie shall be a Mayor to be
nominated and elected from the City at large, and six (6) Councilmen, two (2)
from each of the three wards, to be nominated and elected from the wards in
which they reside. When used hereafter, the words “Council” or “The City
Council” shall be understood to mean the Mayor and Councilmen. The term “Mayor”
or “Councilmen” shall be understood to be either masculine or feminine.
SECTION 2-2. GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body of the City of Guthrie shall be the City Council.
SECTION 2-3. CANDIDACY FOR OFFICE.
   Any qualified citizen (see Article VI, Section 16, for qualifications) may
become a candidate for Mayor or Councilman by filing with the Logan County
Election Board at the times and dates as set forth in Article VI, Section 16, a
Certificate or Declaration of Candidacy containing the information and in the
form as provided by State law (currently 26 O.S., 1981, Section 5-111), except
that no political party affiliation shall be declared; a filing fee of Twenty-
five Dollars ($25.00) shall be submitted with the Certificate or Declaration of
Candidacy; in lieu of such filing fee a Certificate or Declaration of Candidacy
may be accompanied by a petition supporting a candidate's filing* signed by at
least twenty-five (25) registered voters eligible to vote for the candidate in
the first election wherein the candidate's name could appear on the ballot.
SECTION 2-4. WARD BOUNDARIES.
   The boundary lines for the three (3) wards referred to in Section One (1) of
this Article shall be established by the City Council within sixty (60) days of
the adoption of this amendment and shall be from time to time changed as
required by law; the ward boundary lines shall be reviewed for change within
one (1) year after release of the final Federal Census figures each decade, and
shall be reviewed for change after each annexation and deannexation.
SECTION 2-5. TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of Mayor shall be two (2) years and shall begin on the
first Tuesday in May following the election at which he or she is elected. The
term for the office of Councilman shall be four (4) years and shall begin on
the first Tuesday in May following the election at which they are elected.
Three (3) Councilman shall be elected at each election, one from each of the
City's three (3) wards.
(Approved by electors, 4-5-2005)
SECTION 2-6. MAYOR; BALLOTS.
   If only two (2) persons file for the office of Mayor their names shall not
be printed on the primary ballots; if only one person files for the office of
Mayor his or her name shall not be printed on either primary or general
election ballots and such person shall be issued a Certificate of Election.
SECTION 2-7. COUNCIL; BALLOTS.
   If two (2) or less persons file for office of Councilman within a single
ward, their names shall not be printed on a primary ballot. If only one (1)
person files for the office of Councilman within a single ward, their names
shall not be printed on either primary or general election ballots, and such
person shall be issued a Certificate of Election.
SECTION 2-8. COMPENSATION.
   The Mayor and Councilmen of the City of Guthrie shall receive a salary of
One Dollar ($1.00) per annum.
SECTION 2-9. OATH OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor and Councilmen of the City of Guthrie shall, before entering the
duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by the Constitution
of the State of Oklahoma.
SECTION 2-10. MAYOR; DUTIES.
   The Mayor of the City of Guthrie shall preside at all meetings of the
Council and shall certify to the correct enrollment of all Ordinances and
Resolutions as passed by the Council. The Mayor shall be recognized as the head
of the City Government for all ceremonial purposes, and by the Governor of the
State of Oklahoma for military purposes. The Mayor shall sign all conveyances
and written obligations of the City of Guthrie as the City Council may require.
The Mayor shall also be a member of the City Council and have an equal vote at
all times with the other members of the City Council. The Mayor shall appoint
an Emergency Management Director to serve at the Mayor's pleasure or create an
agreement with the County for Emergency Management Services.
(Approved by electors, 4-7-2009)
SECTION 2-11. VICE-MAYOR; APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.
   At the first City Council meeting in May of each odd-numbered year the City
Council shall elect one of its members to serve as the Vice-Mayor of the City
of Guthrie. Said Vice-Mayor shall be selected by the affirmative vote of at
least four (4) members of the Council. The Vice-Mayor shall act as, and possess
all of the powers and duties of the Mayor during the absence or suspension of
the Mayor. Said Vice-Mayor shall serve a term of two (2) years.
Cross-reference:
   Vice-Mayor, see §
1-4
SECTION 2-12. FILLING VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Vice-Mayor shall become
Mayor for the duration of the unexpired term. If a vacancy occurs in the office
of Vice-Mayor, the City Council, by an affirmative vote of at least four (4)
members, shall select another Vice-Mayor from among its members for the
duration of the unexpired term. If a vacancy occurs in the office of
Councilman, the City Council shall select, by an affirmative vote of at least
four (4) members, an eligible person to fill the vacancy at the next regular
meeting of the City Council following the creation of the vacancy or as soon
thereafter as is practical.
SECTION 2-13. MAYOR AND COUNCIL; VACANCIES.
   A vacancy shall be deemed to exist when an elective officer of the City of
Guthrie fails to qualify for office within twenty (20) days after notice of his
election, dies, resigns, removes his legal residency from the City or ward from
which he or she was elected, fails to attend four (4) successive regular
meetings of the City Council, is convicted of a felony, becomes a habitual
drunkard, or is otherwise legally disqualified.
SECTION 2-14. MEETINGS; REGULAR AND SPECIAL.
   The City Council shall hold their regular meetings on the first and third
Tuesday of each month, and shall hold special meetings at other times as the
Mayor or a majority of the Councilmen shall call the Council together. The City
Council shall hold executive sessions at such times as they deem necessary for
the purposes and in the manner provided by Oklahoma law.
Cross-reference:
   Regular meetings, see §
1-1
SECTION 2-15. COUNCIL TO APPOINT OFFICERS.
   At such times as a vacancy occurs, the City Council shall appoint by
affirmative vote of at least four (4) Council members, a City Manager, a City
Treasurer, a City Clerk, a City Attorney, a City Judge and/or an alternate City
Judge; in the same manner the City Council may at their discretion appoint
additional City Judges as necessary; if more than one (1) City Judge is
appointed it shall not be necessary to appoint an alternate City Judge, but one
of the City Judges so appointed shall be designated as the presiding City
Judge. Any of the officers thus appointed may at any time, by an affirmative
vote of at least four (4) members of the City Council, be removed and a
successor be appointed in a- like manner. The Council, by an affirmative vote
of at least four (4) members, may authorize the City Manager or the City
Attorney to hire such deputies or assistants as necessary; such deputies or
assistants shall serve at the discretion of the appointive officer by whom they
are hired. At such times as the City Attorney cannot represent the City in a
given matter or cause, because of a conflict of interest, the City Manager may
retain an attorney, subject to the approval of the City Council, to represent
the City's interest in such matter or cause.
SECTION 2-16. QUORUM.
   A quorum to do business shall consist of at least four (4) members of the
City Council. A majority vote of the Council present at the meeting shall
constitute the action of said Council, unless provided differently elsewhere in
this Charter.
SECTION 2-17. RECALL AND REMOVAL APPLICABLE.
   All elective officers and those appointed to fill vacancies in elective
office as herein provided, shall hold their respective office subject to the
provisions of recall as provided by this Charter, and subject to removal from
office as provided by law.
SECTION 2-18. COUNCIL TO DETERMINE SALARIES.
   The City Council of the City of Guthrie shall determine and fix from time to
time the salaries of all employees of the City of Guthrie, and also the
salaries of all officers of the City of Guthrie appointed by the City Council.
SECTION 2-19. COUNCIL TO REGULATE FISCAL AFFAIRS.
   The City Council shall have the power to raise revenue, make appropriations,
and regulate all fiscal affairs of the City, subject to such limitations as may
now or hereafter be imposed by the Oklahoma Constitution.
SECTION 2-20. AUTHORITY TO INVESTIGATE MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS.
   The City Council may, while in session as a body, inquire into the conduct
of any office, department or agency of the city, and investigate municipal
affairs, or authorize and provide for such inquiries.
SECTION 2-21. AUTHORITY TO APPOINT SUBORDINATES, COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS.
   The City Council may, in addition to the appointment and removal of officers
herein provided, appoint or elect and remove members of Commissions and Boards
and other quasi-legislative or quasi-judicial officers, as provided by law or
may from time to time be established by the City Council, and prescribe the
method of appointing and electing and removing them.
SECTION 2-22. ACQUISITION AND SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   The City Council of the City of Guthrie shall have the power to purchase and
acquire any real property, the acquisition of which it deems to be in the best
interest of the City, and shall have the power to sell and dispose of any real
property now or hereafter owned by said City, provided that the sale of any
real property must be authorized by Ordinance passed by the City Council in the
same manner as any other Ordinance. No such Ordinance approving the sale of any
real property shall become effective for thirty (30) days after the passage and
approval of the Ordinance; provided that no contrary provision for emergency
passage of an Ordinance shall apply to this Article. Within the thirty (30) day
period, the question of the sale of the real property involved may be put to a
vote of the people upon the filing with the Clerk of the City of Guthrie of a
petition calling for such vote. Said petition shall contain signatures of
qualified voters residing within the territorial limits of the City of Guthrie
of a number equal to at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the total electors
voting at the last preceding City general election. Where the value of the real
property sought to be sold exceeds the sum of Twenty-five Thousand Dollars
($25,000.00), the question of its sale shall first be submitted to the electors
of said City at an election called for that purpose; and the question submitted
thereat shall be substantially as follows:
   “Shall the City Council of the City of Guthrie sell (the property to be
sold, accurately describing the same), for (the value to be received by the
City of Guthrie, precisely stated).”
   If the majority of the votes cast in said election shall be in the
affirmative, then the City Council shall have the power hereby conferred, but
not otherwise.
   No real property may be disposed of by gift unless such gift is valid within
the constraints of the Oklahoma State Constitution and unless such gift is
submitted to a vote of the electors of the City in the same manner as provided
for herein for property exceeding the value of Twenty-five Thousand Dollars
($25,000.00). “Value,” as used herein, shall mean market value as defined by
law.
SECTION 2-23. AUTHORITY TO CREATE DEPARTMENTS.
   The City Council may create, change and abolish offices, departments and
agencies other than those established by this Charter, and assign additional
functions and duties to offices, departments and agencies so established.
SECTION 2-24. AUTHORITY TO ENACT MUNICIPAL LEGISLATION.
   The City Council has the power to enact municipal legislation subject to
limitations as may now or hereinafter be imposed by the Oklahoma Constitution;
provided, that all ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations now in force
in the City of Guthrie not in conflict with the provisions of this Charter, as
amended, shall remain in full force and effect until altered, amended or
repealed by the City Council.
   The general power of the City Council to enact legislation shall include,
but not be limited to, the power to establish by ordinance land use regulations
including, but not limited to, planning, zoning, subdivision regulations and
all other regulations regarding land use management within the corporate
limits, the power to establish by ordinance building codes and building
regulations, the power to establish by ordinance collective bargaining
procedure, rules and regulations, the power to establish by ordinance an
Historical Preservation District, and the power to establish by ordinance rules
and regulations governing the drilling of oil and gas wells, water wells and
disposal wells, within the corporate limits of the City.
SECTION 2-25. OATHS.
   The Mayor and each Councilman, City Judges, and the City Clerk or the
Clerk's deputies, shall be and they are hereby authorized to administer oaths
in all matters concerning municipal affairs of the City.
SECTION 2-26. AUTHORITY TO GRANT PARDONS.
   The City Council may grant pardons for violations of municipal ordinances,
including the remission of fines and costs, upon the recommendation of the
Municipal Judge.
SECTION 2-27. COUNCIL NOT TO INTERFERE IN APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   Except for the purposes of inquiry, the Council and its members shall deal
with the administrative service of the City solely through the City Manager.
The Council and its members may not:
   1.   Direct or request the City Manager or other authority to appoint or
remove employees of the City.
   2.   Participate in any manner in the appointment or removal of employees of
the City, except as provided by law.
   3.   Give orders on ordinary administrative matters to any subordinate of
the City Manager, either publicly or privately.
   The word “employee,” as used herein, shall not include appointive officers,
either appointed by the Mayor or Council.
SECTION 2-28. GENERAL POWERS; CHARTER PREVAILING.
   In addition to the powers hereinabove or hereinafter enumerated, the City
Council shall be vested with all powers of the City of Guthrie bestowed on the
City of Guthrie by the Constitution of the State of Oklahoma, this Charter, and
such powers as are vested upon statutory cities by the Statutes of the State of
Oklahoma, as now exist or are hereinafter enacted, including, but not limited
to, the determination of matters of policy; providing that where any provisions
of the Charter shall be in conflict with any law or laws relating to Cities,
the provisions of the Charter shall prevail.
SECTION 2-29. FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the City of Guthrie shall commence on the 1st day of
October in each year.
SECTION 2-30. INCREASE IN UTILITY RATES.
   (a)   This section shall constitute a limit on the legislative power of the
City Council as to the matters included herein, and not otherwise.
   (b)   Precedent to an increase in water or sewer rates within the control of
the City of Guthrie, such increase proposal must be submitted to the legal
voters of the City for their approval or rejection at the next regular general
election, or at a special election which might be called for said purpose. This
section is self-executing and shall supersede all provisions in conflict
therewith; legislation may be enacted to facilitate its operations but no
ordinance shall limit or restrict the provisions thereof.
   (c)   If any word, sentence, clause or phrase in this section shall be
declared for any reason invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such
shall be stricken or another word, sentence, clause or phrase shall be inserted
so as to render this section valid, and the entire section shall not be
affected thereby.
(Approved by electors, 8-23-2016)
ARTICLE III. DUTIES OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
SECTION 3-1. CITY MANAGER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall be the administrative head of the municipal
government responsible only to the Council. He or she shall not, during his or
her tenure of office, be a regular employee or perform any duties for any
person, firm, corporation or institution other than the City of Guthrie, and
shall not, be interested in the profits or emoluments of any contract, job,
work or service of the City. At the time of his or her appointment, he or she
need not be a resident of the City or State, but during his or her tenure of
office, he or she shall reside within the City limits or within the Guthrie
school district. In addition to the general powers of administration the City
Manager shall have the special powers and duties herein enumerated, and shall
be directly responsible to the Council for the proper administration thereof,
to-wit:
   1.   Administer, monitor and take any appropriate measures to ensure the
proper enforcement of all laws and ordinances governing the City by the
appropriate City department;
   2.   Appoint and when necessary at any time for the good of the service,
remove, demote, lay off or suspend, all heads of administrative departments and
other administrative officers and employees of the City, except such deputies
or assistants authorized by the Council to be hired by appointive officers (see
Article 2, Section 2-15), without regard to age, race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth. The City Manager, by written
directive, may authorize the head of a department, office or agency, to appoint
and remove the subordinates in such department, office or agency;
   3.   Exercise actual management, control and supervision over all
departments of the City Government and exercise all other administrative
functions, except as otherwise in this Charter provided;
   4.   Recommend to the Council for adopting such ordinances, rules,
regulations, measures, or policies as he may deem necessary or expedient;
   5.   Keep the Council fully advised as to the financial condition of the
City;
   6.   Ascertain that all franchise rights and provisions are justly enforced;
and ascertain that all leases and contracts with the City are enforced; and
notify the Council at least thirty (30) days prior to expiration of such leases
or contracts;
   7.   Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the Council and be
responsible for the administration of the budget after it goes into effect; the
budget shall include both operating needs and capital improvement needs; and
recommend to the Council any changes in the budget which he deems to be
desirable;
   8.   Submit to the Council a report at the end of the fiscal year on
finances and administrative activities of the City for the preceding year; and
   9.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
(Approved by electors, 4-7-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Duties, see 11 O.S. § 10-113
Cross-reference:
   City Manager, see §
1-20
SECTION 3-2. ACTING CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager, by letter filed with the City Clerk, may appoint a
qualified administrative officer of the City to be acting City Manager during
the temporary absence or disability of the City Manager. The Council may
appoint an acting City Manager whenever;
   1.   The Manager fails to make such designation;
   2.   The Council suspends the City Manager; or
   3.   There is a vacancy in the office of City Manager.
Cross-reference:
   City Manager, see §
1-20
SECTION 3-3. CITY MANAGER BOND.
   The City Manager shall give bond in the sum of Twenty Thousand Dollars
($20,000.00), or such sum as may be provided by ordinance.
Cross-reference:
   City Manager, see §
1-20
SECTION 3-4. CITY TREASURER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Treasurer shall head the Department of Finance and shall be under
the direct supervision of the City Manager. He or she shall:
   1.   Collect all revenues receivable by the City and deposit them daily;
   2.   Maintain the general accounting system for the City and provide a
monthly report to the City Council and the City Manager of monies received and
Disbursed and all such other reports as are requested by the City Manager;
   3.   Invest the funds of the City, under the direction of the Council, only
in such securities as are provided for by the Constitution and laws of the
State of Oklahoma; all uninvested funds shall be deposited by the Treasurer in
the depository or depositories of the City;
   4.   Assure that the City depository or depositories shall secure the City
for all deposits by getting good and sufficient collateral as is required by
the laws of the State of Oklahoma, or by pledging collateral or bonds backed by
the full faith and credit of the State or Federal Government in an amount at
least equal to the maximum funds the City has or could have on deposit. The
City Council shall approve each depository and shall approve the method of
securing deposits therein; such approval of depository and of method of
securing deposits shall be by simple majority and shall remain in effect until
withdrawn by simple majority. The Treasurer shall advise the Council of any and
all changes in State law affecting the security of deposits in municipal
depositories;
   5.   Assist the City Manager in the timely preparation of an annual budget
by providing all financial data required by the City Manager and fully
cooperate with the City Manager in the timely preparation of annual budget
projections to be incorporated into the annual budget which is submitted by the
City Manager to the City Council;
   6.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinances.
Statutory reference:
   Duties, see 11 O.S. § 10-113
Cross-reference:
   City Treasurer, see §
1-5
SECTION 3-5. CITY TREASURER; BOND.
   The City Treasurer shall give bond in the sum of no less than One Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00), or greater, as may be provided by ordinance.
Cross-reference:
   City Treasurer, see §
1-5
SECTION 3-6. CITY CLERK; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Clerk shall serve as clerical officer for the Council and shall be
under the direct supervision of the City Manager. He shall:
   1.   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the Council;
   2.   Enroll in a book or books kept for the purpose all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the Council;
   3.   Have custody of documents, records and archives as may be provided by
law or ordinance and have custody of the seal of the City;
   4.   Attest and affix the seal of the City to documents as required by law
or ordinance; and
   5.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Duties, see 11 O.S. § 10-113
Cross-reference:
   City Clerk, see §
1-6
SECTION 3-7. CITY ATTORNEY; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Attorney shall head the Legal Department and shall be responsible
to the City Council and the City Manager. He shall:
   1.   Advise the Council and each member thereof, and the City Manager, upon
all legal questions and he shall give opinions in writing when requested;
   2.   Represent the City as Counsel in litigation in all Courts;
   3.   Perform such other legal services in behalf of the City, its officers
or employees, as may from time to time be required by the City Manager or by
the Council;
   4.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed, by
law or ordinance.
SECTION 3-8. CITY JUDGE; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Judge and Alternate City Judge shall be attorneys licensed to
practice law in the State of Oklahoma. They shall:
   1.   Have the power to administer oaths, keep and preserve the records of
the Court, certify transcripts and other records;
   2.   Have the power to issue subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses and
for the production of records, to issue arrest warrants and to issue search
warrants;
   3.   Have such other general powers as are possessed by the District Judge
of the State Court;
   4.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinance.
SECTION 3-9. CITY JUDGE TO DETERMINE RULES OF COURT.
   The City Judge shall fix and determine the administrative rules of the City
Court; if more than one City Judge be appointed by the Council, the Judge
designated presiding City Judge shall fix and determine the administrative
rules of the City Court.
ARTICLE IV. PERSONAL PROPERTY PURCHASE AND BID PROCEDURE
SECTION 4-1. PURCHASES AND SALES.
   The City Manager, subject to any regulations which the Council may
prescribe, shall contract for and purchase, or issue purchase orders for, all
supplies, materials, and equipment for the offices, departments, and agencies
of the City government. Every such contract or purchase exceeding an amount to
be established by ordinance shall require the prior approval of the Council.
The City Manager also may transfer to or between offices, departments, and
agencies, or sell surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, and equipment
subject to such regulations as the Council may prescribe. Before the purchase
of or contract for any supplies, materials, or equipment, or the sale of any
surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment, ample opportunity for
competitive bidding under such regulations and with such exceptions as the
Council may prescribe shall be given; but the Council shall not except a
particular contract, purchase, or sale from the requirement of competitive
bidding, provided however, the City Council may by simple majority, waive the
bidding and advertising procedure hereinabove set forth and such emergency or
unusual contracts can be let immediately upon approval of the City Council;
provided that in the motion for waiver of the bidding and advertising procedure
the facts or circumstances relied on to waive such procedure shall be included
and stated in concise terms. Emergency as used in this section shall be limited
to conditions resulting from a sudden, unexpected happening or unforeseen
occurrence or condition and situation wherein the public health or safety is
endangered or a situation involving injury to persons or injury and damage to
public or personal property or immediate financial loss. Unusual purchase as
used in this section shall be limited to purchases for which the taking of bids
is not feasible because of practical limitations upon the bidding procedure
which are beyond the control of the City of Guthrie.
SECTION 4-2. PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Public improvements may be made by the City government itself or by
contract. The Council shall award all contracts for such improvements; provided
that the Council may authorize the City Manager to award such contracts not
exceeding an amount to be determined by the Council, and subject to such
regulations as the Council may prescribe. Every contract for public
improvements of such amount as the Council may determine by ordinance, or such
amount as may be required by the Oklahoma Public Competitive Bidding Act,
whichever amount is greater, shall be awarded to the lowest and best
responsible bidder after such notice and opportunity for competitive bidding as
the Council may prescribe, or as is required by law. All bids may be rejected
and further notice and opportunity for competitive bidding may be given. Such
contracts may be altered by mutual consent of the parties. Public improvement
means any beneficial or valuable change or addition, betterment, enhancement,
or amelioration of or upon any real property, or interest therein, belonging to
the City, its public trusts or agencies and intended to enhance its value,
beauty, or utility, or to adopt it to new or future purposes. The term does not
include the direct purchase of materials, equipment, or supplies by the City,
its public trusts or agencies. Nothing herein shall prevent the City from
constructing public improvements by the force account method.
ARTICLE V. MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION 5-1. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Municipal Court of the City of Guthrie shall be as provided by the
Constitution and laws of the State of Oklahoma unless otherwise provided by
this Charter. The City Council may by ordinance establish rules, policies or
procedures for the operation of the Guthrie Municipal Court, and when such
policies, rules or procedures are so adopted they shall take precedence over
conflicting State statutory law affecting the Guthrie Municipal Court.
ARTICLE VI. MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION 6-1. COUNTY TO CONDUCT ELECTIONS.
   All municipal elections for the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma, shall be
conducted by the County Election Board of Logan County, unless otherwise
provided by law.
 Cross-reference:
   Municipal elections, see §
1-190
SECTION 6-2. NOTIFICATION TO COUNTY.
   Not fewer than fifteen (15) days before the filing period for a City
election, or in the event of a special election, not fewer than thirty (30)
days before such election, the City council shall cause the Mayor to submit a
resolution to the secretary of the Logan County Election Board. Said resolution
shall contain the following facts:
   1.   The dates of the election or elections;
   2.   The offices to be filled or the questions to be voted upon at said
election or elections;
   3.   Qualifications for said offices;
   4.   Designation of which offices shall be filled by voting by ward and
which offices shall be filled by voting at large;
   5.   Any other information necessary for conducting said election or
elections.
SECTION 6-3. ELECTIONS; TIME AND MANNER.
   The City of Guthrie municipal elections shall be held at the same place and
in the same manner prescribed for the conduct of state and county elections,
unless otherwise provided by the Charter, or by state law. All precincts
totally or partially contained within the limits of the City of Guthrie,
Oklahoma, shall be open for all elections held by the City of Guthrie;
provided, however, that the City may authorize any precinct which is only
partially contained within the limits of the City not to be opened by
certifying to the County Election Board in its resolution calling for an
election that no person reside within that portion of the precinct contained
within the limits of the City of Guthrie. The polling places shall be open from
7:00 a.m. until 7:00 p.m. Each precinct election board shall be the same as for
state and county elections; provided, however, that substitutions, if
necessary, shall be made by the County Election Board. Except as otherwise
provided by this Charter, all elections for municipal officers in the City of
Guthrie shall be held and conducted as provided by the Statutes of the State of
Oklahoma.
SECTION 6-4. CANDIDACY; WHEN FILING FEE REQUIRED.
   Persons filing Declarations of Candidacy, who do not file accompanying
petitions supporting the filing, shall be required to post the filing fee in
the amount and in the form as required by the state law governing municipal
elections. Petitions and Declarations of Candidacy shall not state political
party affiliations.
SECTION 6-5. BALLOTS NOT TO STATE PARTY AFFILIATION.
   All materials and ballot necessary to conduct the City of Guthrie elections
shall be provided by the County Election Board unless otherwise provided by
law. Ballots shall not state political party affiliations.
SECTION 6-6. CERTIFICATION OF RESULTS.
   At the time prescribed by law, the County Election Board shall certify the
results of any municipal election of the City of Guthrie to the City Council.
Certificates of election shall be issued to the successful candidates by the
County Election Board, in the same manner as prescribed by state law for county
officers.
SECTION 6-7. MAYOR TO PROVIDE MAP.
   The City Council shall cause the Mayor to provide to the County Election
Board a current map of the City of Guthrie. Such map must clearly define the
municipal limits and ward boundaries of the City of Guthrie. Should any changes
be made in the municipal limits or ward boundaries, the City Council shall
cause the Mayor to immediately provide the County Election Board a complete
revised map showing such changes.
SECTION 6-8. ELIGIBILITY TO VOTE.
   Only registered voters who reside within the municipal limits of the City of
Guthrie shall be permitted to vote in any City election.
SECTION 6-9. MAYOR TO PROVIDE CHARTER.
   The City Council shall cause the Mayor to furnish a copy of the City
Charter, as it applies to the conduct of elections, to the County Election
Board. Any changes in the City Charter, as it applies to the conduct of
elections, shall be provided immediately to the County Election Board.
SECTION 6-10. ELECTION EXPENSES.
   The expenses incurred in the conduct of City elections shall be charged and
paid as provided by the state laws governing municipal elections.
SECTION 6-11. ELECTIONS; DATE.
   The date of the Primary election shall be the first Tuesday in March in each
odd-numbered year, the date of the General election shall be the first Tuesday
in April in each odd-numbered year.
SECTION 6-12. NOTICE AND PUBLICATION OF ELECTION.
   Notice of a General municipal election or special election shall be given by
publishing a resolution of the City Council calling for the election. The
resolution shall set forth:
   1.   The date or dates of the election; and the offices to be filled or the
questions to be voted upon at the election.
   2.   The resolution shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the City of Guthrie at least ten (10) days before the beginning of the-
filing period for a General municipal election, or at least ten (10) days
before the date of a special election. If there is no newspaper of general
circulation within the City, the notice shall be given by posting a copy of the
resolution in at least five (5) public places in the City of Guthrie.
SECTION 6-13. NOMINATION.
   No candidate's name shall be printed upon the official ballot for a General
election, unless such candidate shall have been duly nominated at the Primary
election or unless an insufficient number of Certificates of Candidacy were
filed to require a Primary election for that particular office or offices.
SECTION 6-14. PREPARATION OF BALLOT.
   The ballot for a special election shall be prepared by the secretary of the
County Election Board and shall set forth the proposition or propositions to be
voted upon, and if more than one proposition is submitted, they shall be
arranged so that each proposition may be voted upon separately.
SECTION 6-15. SPECIAL ELECTIONS; COUNCIL RESOLUTION OR ORDER.
   When the office of an elected official is to be filled at a special
election, the resolution or order of the City Council calling the election
shall contain the following facts:
   1.   A filing period of three (3) days on a Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday,
not less than ten (10) days after the date of publication of the resolution;
   2.   The date of the special Primary election, not less than thirty (30)
days after the close of filing period; and
   3.   The date of the special General election, not less than thirty (30)
days after the date of the Primary election.
   A copy of the resolution shall be filed with the secretary of the County
Election Board.
SECTION 6-16. MAYOR AND COUNCIL; QUALIFICATIONS.
   To be eligible to be elected to the office of Mayor or Councilmen of the
City of Guthrie, a person must be a citizen of the United States of America,
and of the State of Oklahoma, be at least twenty-one (21) years of age, be a
registered voter, be a resident of the ward if the office is from a ward, and
be a resident of the City of Guthrie for two (2) years immediately preceding
the date of the General election, or a resident of an area which has been
annexed to and has become a part of the City for two (2) years immediately
preceding the General election. To become a candidate, a Declaration of
Candidacy must be filed with the County Election Board no earlier than 8:00
a.m. on the first Monday in February and no later than 5:00 p.m. on the next
succeeding Wednesday.
SECTION 6-17. SECTION "S” REPEALED.
   Section “S” being the Charter Amendment adopted April 5, 1949 is hereby
repealed.
ARTICLE VII. RECALL
SECTION 7-1. COUNCIL SUBJECT TO RECALL.
   Any holder of elective City office, including a person appointed to fill a
vacancy in any such office, may be recalled at any time by the electors
qualified to vote for the successor of such office holder in the manner
provided herein. Provided that no such office holder shall be removed from
office by recall until he shall have held such office for a period of time
greater than six (6) months.
SECTION 7-2. INITIATING RECALL PROCEEDINGS AND PETITION.
   To initiate recall proceedings, a written statement, in duplicate, proposing
the recall of the office holder shall be signed by one hundred (100) or more
registered, qualified electors of the City of Guthrie, and shall be filed with
the City Clerk. The statement shall contain the reason, or reasons, for which
recall is sought, such statement in two hundred (200) words or less. Within
five (5) business days, the City Clerk shall mail a copy of such statement by
registered, certified or similar special mail to the official sought to be
recalled at his or her residential address. Said officer shall have ten (10)
business days after mailing of such statement to formulate and deliver to the
City Clerk a statement of not more than two hundred (200) words setting forth
the reason, or reasons, justifying such officer's conduct in office. When the
ten (10) business day period for response on the part of the office holder has
expired, the persons desiring said recall shall file with the City Clerk a
petition for the recall of such officer. Said petition shall contain in the
heading thereof the reasons for the recall as stated in the statement filed,
and the reasons justifying such officer's conduct in office, if the office
holder shall have filed any such reasons within the ten (10) business day
period. Said petition shall be filed with the City Clerk prior to circulation.
SECTION 7-3. REQUIREMENTS OF PETITION.
   A number of registered qualified electors of the City of Guthrie, equal to
at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the total electors voting at the last
preceding City general election must sign the petition. Each signer shall write
after his name his address within the City of Guthrie, giving street or avenue,
if any. Not more than twenty-five (25) signatures may appear on a single copy
of the petition. Petitions shall be circulated only by registered qualified
electors of the City and the person who circulates each copy of the petition
shall sign an affidavit on the copy of the petition stating each signer thereof
signed the petition in his presence, that each signature on the petition is
genuine and that he believes each signer to be a registered qualified elector
of the City.
SECTION 7-4. CITY CLERK TO DETERMINE SUFFICIENCY OF PETITION.
   The circulated petition shall be filed with the City Clerk not later than
one month after the filing of a copy as provided above. Within one month after
date of filing the circulated petition, the City Clerk shall examine it and
ascertain whether it has been prepared and circulated as required and whether
the required number of registered qualified electors of the City of Guthrie
have signed it. The City Clerk shall then attach a certificate to the petition.
If the City Clerk certified that the petition has not been prepared and
circulated as required and/or lacks a sufficient number of signatures, the
petition shall have no effect; but if the City Clerk certifies that the
petition has been prepared and circulated as required and has a sufficient
number of signatures, he shall submit the petition and certificate to the City
Council at its next meeting.
SECTION 7-5. DATE OF RECALL ELECTION.
   The Council, by resolution, after receiving the petition and certificate of
the City Clerk, shall order and fix a date for the recall election. Such
election shall be held not less than thirty (30), nor more than forty (40),
days after the passage of the resolution. The City Clerk shall cause the
resolution ordering the election to be published in full in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City, within ten (10) days after its passage and
such publication shall be sufficient notice of the election.
SECTION 7-6. MULTIPLE RECALLS.
   If more than one elected official is sought to be recalled, then and in that
event, separate petitions shall be filed and circulated as hereinbefore
provided for each such official.
SECTION 7-7. RESULTS OF RECALL.
   There shall be no primary election. The recall election shall be an election
to fill the office or offices held by the incumbent or incumbents sought to be
recalled. Any qualified person, including the incumbent or incumbents, may file
as a candidate for the office or offices. The candidate or candidates receiving
the greatest number of votes for the office or offices in the recall election
shall be elected. If at such election, some person or persons other than the
incumbent or incumbents receives the highest number of votes, the said
incumbent or incumbents shall be deemed to have been removed, and shall vacate
the office after qualification of his successor, which shall be within ten (10)
days from declaration of the result, otherwise the incumbent shall remain in
office.
SECTION 7-8. CHARTER TO GOVERN RECALL ELECTIONS.
   The provisions of this Charter relating to City's elections shall govern
recall elections insofar as they are applicable to and are not superseded by
the provisions of this Article.
SECTION 7-9. RECALLED OFFICIAL NOT TO HOLD OFFICE OR EMPLOYMENT.
   No person who has been recalled from an office or has resigned from such
office, while recall proceedings are pending against him may hold any office or
position of employment in City government of the City of Guthrie within four
(4) years after his recall or resignation.
ARTICLE VIII: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
SECTION 8-1. ORDINANCES; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   The enacting clause of all ordinances shall be, “BE IT ORDAINED BY THE
COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GUTHRIE,” but such enacting clause may be omitted when
said ordinances are revised and complied under the order of the Council, or
when they are published in book form.
SECTION 8-2. SINGLE SUBJECT REQUIRED; AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly
expressed in its title. An ordinance may be amended in whole or a section or
sections thereof amended, but so much thereof as is amended shall be re-enacted
and published at length or summarized by gist.
SECTION 8-3. ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION.
   Within ten (10) days after its passage, every ordinance shall be published
at least once in full, or summarized by gist, except as provided in Section 7
of this Article, in a newspaper meeting the requirements of the Statutes of the
State of Oklahoma in respect to legal publications and of general circulation
in the City of Guthrie. If there be no such legal newspaper, then publication
of the ordinance shall be by posting a copy of the ordinance in ten (10) of the
most public places in the City of Guthrie.
SECTION 8-4. ORDINANCES; WHEN EFFECTIVE.
   Every ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall go into effect thirty
(30) days after its final passage unless it specifies a later date.
SECTION 8-5. CERTAIN EMERGENCY ORDINANCES PROHIBITED.
   No ordinance making a grant of any franchise or special privilege shall ever
be passed as an emergency measure.
SECTION 8-6. ORDINANCES; EMERGENCY.
   An emergency ordinance is an ordinance, which in the judgment of the Council
is necessary for the immediate preservation of peace, health or safety, and
which should become effective prior to the time an ordinary ordinance would
become effective. Every such ordinance shall contain, as a part of its title
the words, “DECLARING AN EMERGENCY” and in a separate section, herein called
the emergency section, shall declare the emergency. The Council shall vote on
the emergency section separately, and must adopt the section by a vote of at
least five-sevenths (5/7ths) of all members of the Council.
SECTION 8-7. ORDINANCES; PASSAGE; RECORDING AYES AND NOES.
   The ayes and noes shall be taken on the passage of all ordinances,
resolutions, motions and appropriations and entered upon the journal or minutes
of its proceedings. Every member when present must vote or abstain. Every
ordinance, other than emergency ordinances, shall require for final passage the
affirmative vote of a majority of all members of the Council.
SECTION 8-8. ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinances which are compilations of rules and regulations or codes may be
enacted by reference to such compilation or code and may be published by title
in a condensed summary of the contents thereof. Provided that when such
compilations or codes are passed or enacted by reference, or are published in
summary form such compilation or code so enacted need not be enrolled in the
book or ordinances, but a copy shall be authenticated by the signatures of the
Mayor and the City Clerk and filed and kept in the office of the City Clerk.
The City Clerk shall keep copies of all such compilations or codes for
distribution or sale at their approximate cost.
SECTION 8-9. ORDINANCES; AUTHENTICATION.
   An ordinance may be proved by a copy thereof certified by the City Clerk
under the seal of the City; or when printed in a book or pamphlet form
published by authority of the City the same shall be received in evidence in
all courts, or other places, without further proof. A true copy of every
ordinance shall be kept in a book marked “Ordinance Record” and authenticated
by the signatures of the Mayor and the City Clerk.
SECTION 8-10. ORDINANCES; CODIFICATION.
   The ordinances of the City shall be codified and published in a book or
pamphlet form at least every ten (10) years. Title, enacting clauses,
severability clauses and emergency sections may be omitted from the Code, and
temporary and special ordinances may be omitted in the codification. Section
titles may be added in the codification. The Code may contain new matter,
provisions of the State Constitution and law relating to the City and
provisions of this Charter. A copy of the published Code shall be filed in the
office of the City Clerk and the City Clerk shall record a duplicate copy
thereof with the County Clerk of Logan County, Oklahoma, and file a duplicate
copy thereof with the Logan County Law Librarian to be placed in the Logan
County Law Library after adoption by the Council.
SECTION 8-11. RESOLUTIONS; PASSAGE.
   A resolution may be adopted at the meeting at which it is introduced and
become effective immediately upon passage. It may be introduced orally and
following adoption may be reduced to writing in a form approved by the City
Attorney.
SECTION 8-12. APPROVAL OF CONTRACTS.
   Contracts or agreements which seek to bind the City may be approved by
resolution or by simple motion which shall be adopted by a majority vote of
those present.
ARTICLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 9-1. POLITICAL ACTIVITY OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES.
   Neither the City Manager nor any appointive officer or employee drawing
salary or other compensation from the City shall take part in any campaign for
the nomination or election of City officers, or engage in political activity in
any form in connection with such nomination or election.
SECTION 9-2. EXPENSES OF FRANCHISE ELECTIONS.
   No election shall be called for the purpose of submitting a question of a
grant, renewal or extension of a franchise unless and until grantee named
therein shall provide by an adequate cash deposit with the City Treasurer to be
estimated by the Treasurer and approved by the Council for the payment in full
of all expenses of such election.
SECTION 9-3. LIABILITY OF OFFICERS FOR ILLEGAL PAYMENTS.
   Every officer who shall approve or allow or pay any demand on the Treasury
of the City not authorized by law, ordinance or this Charter shall be liable to
the City individually and on his bond for the amount of the demand so illegally
approved, allowed or paid.
SECTION 9-4. DUAL OFFICE HOLDING; COMPATIBILITY OF OFFICES.
   No person holding office under the County, State or United States
government, notary public excepted, shall hold elective office or full time
regular employment with this City, except that a member of a federal, county or
state advisory board or commission may hold office or serve on an advisory
board or commission of this City. No elective or appointive officer or employee
of the City shall receive any compensation from the City other than specified
in the salary and benefits attached to his position. No person shall be
permitted under any circumstances to draw more than one salary from the City
for any and all purposes.
SECTION 9-5. AUTOMOBILE EXPENSES LIMITED.
   No automobile or motor vehicle or the gasoline or oil used therein, shall be
furnished by the City for any City official or any employee, except for the use
in discharging official duties of such employee.
SECTION 9-6. APPOINTMENTS NOT FOR DEFINITE TERM.
   No appointment to an office or position in the City shall be made for any
definite time.
SECTION 9-7. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the City, elective or appointive, shall be
interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract or job for work or for
material, or supplies, or the profits thereof, for any purchase made for or
sales made by, to or with the City, or own more than one percent (1%) of the
stock in a corporation having any contract or subcontract, or doing contract,
job or work, and all such contracts with such City officers or employees shall
be void.
SECTION 9-8. NEPOTISM.
   No person who is a relative by blood or marriage within the third degree of
any of the councilmen or the City Manager shall be appointed to City office or
employment.
SECTION 9-9. WAITING-PERIOD FOR EMPLOYMENT OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   No councilman shall be employed by the City until the expiration of one year
after his connection with the Council shall have been severed.
SECTION 9-10. GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS.
   General Obligation Bonds shall be sold to the bidder most favorable to the
City at not less than par and accrued interest and shall bear the lowest rate
of interest obtainable not to exceed the maximum interest rate authorized by
the laws of the State of Oklahoma.
SECTION 9-11. AMENDMENT; PROPOSAL.
   This charter may be amended at any time by initiative petition as provided
by the Constitution and laws of the State of Oklahoma, at an election at which
the proposed amendment is submitted to a vote of the qualified electors of the
City, by majority vote of such electors voting at such election on such
proposed amendment, provided such proposed amendment is filed with the City
Clerk for submission not less than forty-five (45) days before the election at
which it is to be voted upon.
   The Council may propose and submit any amendments to this charter to a vote
of the qualified electors of the City provided such amendments are filed with
the City Clerk for submission not less than forty-five (45) days before the
election at which they are to be voted upon. Amendments, whether by initiative
petition or by Council referral, may be submitted at a general or special
election as the Council may prescribe for such election; the election
provisions of this Charter shall govern.
SECTION 9-12. ACCEPTANCE OF CERTAIN GIFTS PROHIBITED.
   No official or employee of the City, elective or appointive, shall accept
any gifts, commissions, or referrals from any contractor, subcontractor,
supplier or any person, firm, partnership or corporation doing business with
the City.
SECTION 9-13. REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The violation of any sections of this
Article IX shall be deemed a sufficient cause for the removal from office or
employment, of such officer or employee.
SECTION 9-14. PUBLICATION OF CHARTER.
   This Charter shall be codified and published in a book or pamphlet, which
shall be updated at such time as the Charter is amended. The number and
introductory sentence of each part of this amendment reading “
                             : Let Article                       of the Guthrie
City Charter be amended to read as follows:” may be omitted from the
codification. An index shall be added and a title shall be added to each
section of the Charter during codification, which shall not be a part of the
Charter, but for ease of reference only.
SECTION 9-15. CLARIFICATION.
   If any part of the Charter of the City of Guthrie becomes inoperative,
vague, or conflicting by virtue of this amendment, the City Council is hereby
empowered and it shall be its duty to enact the necessary ordinances to put
into operation and clarify such provisions.
SECTION 9-16. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any section or part of a section of this Charter is determined by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, it shall not invalidate or impair the
force or effect of any other section or part of a section of this Charter,
except insofar as such other section or part of a section is dependent for its
operation upon the section so held to be invalid.
SECTION 9-17. FEMININE GENDER.
   In this Charter, the use of words in the masculine gender shall be taken to
include and refer to the feminine and neuter genders as well and the use of
words in the feminine gender shall be taken to include and refer to the
masculine and neuter genders as well.
SECTION 9-18. ABSTENTION FROM VOTING.
   If a member of the City Council or a member of any board or commission of
the City abstains from voting on an issue, said abstention shall be recorded as
a negative vote.
(Approved by electors, 4-5-2005)
CHAPTER 1: AGENCIES, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Article 1: City Council
   
1-1.   Regular meetings
   
1-2.   Place of meetings
   
1-3.   Election of Mayor
   
1-4.   Vice-Mayor
   
1-5.   City Treasurer
   
1-6.   City Clerk
   
1-7.   Compensation
   
1-8.   Salaries of employees and officers
Article 2: City Manager
   
1-20.   Appointment; powers and duties
Article 3: Health Department
   
1-30.   Cooperative Department; Director
Article 4: Civil Defense
   
1-40.   Purpose
   
1-41.   Director; Advisory Committee
   
1-42.   Director; powers and duties
   
1-43.   Plans and information
   
1-44.   Emergencies
   
1-45.   Enforcement
   
1-46.   Compensation; liability
   
1-47.   Shelter managers; duties
   
1-48.   Restraint; offense
Article 5: Volunteer Firefighters
   
1-60.   Bylaws
Article 6: Firefighters' Pensions
   
1-70.   (Reserved)
   
1-71.   Operation
   
1-72.   Deductions from compensation
Article 7: Police Pension and Retirement System
   
1-85.   Definition
   
1-86.   Name of system
   
1-87.   Board of Trustees
   
1-88.   Election of members
   
1-89.   Chairperson; Secretary
   
1-90.   Reports of Secretary
   
1-91.   Meetings and duty
   
1-92.   Quorum
   
1-93.   General powers of Board
   
1-94.   Custody and disbursement of funds
   
1-95.   Contributions and gifts
   
1-96.   Participation and contributions by police officers
   
1-97.   Purpose of pension fund
   
1-98.   Service pension
   
1-99.   Right to withdraw
   
1-100.   Forfeiture of pension
   
1-101.   Insufficient funds; probation
   
1-102.   Determination of one year of service
   
1-103.   Exemption
   
1-104.   Transfer of funds
   
1-105.   Appeals
   
1-106.   City physician
Article 8: Old Age, Survivors', and Disability Insurance
   
1-120.   Benefits extended
   
1-121.   Execution of documents
   
1-122.   Withholdings
   
1-123.   Appropriations
   
1-124.   Records and reports
   
1-125.   Personnel excluded
   
1-126.   Further exclusions
Article 9: Employee Retirement System – Defined Benefit Plan
   
1-140.   Establishment
   
1-141.   Administration
   
1-142.   Fund
   
1-143.   Appropriations
   
1-144.   Execution
   
1-145.   Amendment of compensation
   
1-146.   Amendment of plan
Article 9A: Employee Retirement System – Defined Contribution Plan
   
1-150.   Establishment
Article 10: Library Board
   
1-155.   Creation
   
1-156.   Appointment and terms of members
   
1-157.   Duties of the Board
Article 11: Open Records Act
   
1-170.   Purpose
   
1-171.   Public inspection
   
1-172.   Definitions
   
1-173.   Establishment of procedures
   
1-174.   Day and hours of availability
   
1-175.   Records Custodians
   
1-176.   Exemptions
   
1-177.   Limited access to personnel records
   
1-178.   Fees
Article 12: Elections
   
1-190.   Absentee ballots
Article 13: Reserve Police Force
   
1-200.   Establishment
   
1-201.   Powers and authority
   
1-202.   Impersonation prohibited
Article 14: Employee Residency Requirements
   
1-210.   Chief of Police and Fire Chief
ARTICLE 1: CITY COUNCIL
§ 1-1 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Council of the city shall hold a regular meeting on the first and third
Tuesday of every month, at an hour to be determined by motion or resolution
passed by the Council.
(`90 Code, § 1-1)
Cross-reference:
   Meetings; regular and special, see Charter Section
2-14
§ 1-2 PLACE OF MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Council shall be held in the Council chamber in the
municipal building.
(‘90 Code, § 1-2)
§ 1-3 ELECTION OF MAYOR.
   The elective officers of the city shall be a Mayor to be nominated and
elected from the city at-large, and six Councilmen, two from each of the three
wards, to be nominated and elected from the wards in which they reside.
(`90 Code, § 1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Mayor and Vice Mayor, see 11 O.S. § 10-105
§ 1-4 VICE-MAYOR.
   (A)   The term, duties, powers and method of election to the office of Vice-
Mayor shall be as defined and made applicable to the Office of Mayor Pro
Tempore in the City Charter.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above are enacted to clarify and remove
present vagueness and uncertainty concerning the Office of the Vice-Mayor.
(`90 Code, § 1-4) (Ord. 2630, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Vice-Mayor; appointment; duties, see Charter Section
2-11
§ 1-5 CITY TREASURER.
   The City Council shall have an affirmative vote of at least four Council
members to select a City Treasurer, who shall possess all the qualifications
and have all the duties as provided for by the Charter, for the City Treasurer,
and other duties as provided for and as may be imposed from time to time by the
City Council. He or she may, at any time, be removed by an affirmative vote of
at least four Council members and a successor may be appointed in like manner.
His or her office shall be under the direct supervision of the City Manager
hereinafter provided for.
(`90 Code, § 1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Creation and duties, see 11 O.S. § 10-115
Cross-reference:
   City Treasurer, see Charter Sections
3-4 and
3-5
§ 1-6 CITY CLERK.
   The City Council shall, by an affirmative vote of at least four Council
member, select a City Clerk, who shall possess all the qualifications and have
all the duties as provided for by the City Charter, for City Clerk and the
additional duties as may be, from time to time, imposed upon him or her by the
City Council or the City Manager, hereinafter provided for. His or her office
shall be under the direct supervision of the City Manager hereinafter provided
for. He or she may be removed at any time by an affirmative vote of at least
four Council members and a successor appointed in like manner.
(`90 Code, § 1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Creation and duties, see 11 O.S. § 10-117
Cross-reference:
   City Clerk, see Charter Section
3-6
§ 1-7 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation for elected officials conducting general and special
elections for the city under the Charter shall be determined by the City
Council.
(`90 Code, § 1-7)
§ 1-8 SALARIES OF EMPLOYEES AND OFFICERS.
   The City Council shall determine and fix from time to time the salaries of
all employees of the city and also the salaries of all officers of the city
appointed by the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 1-8)
ARTICLE 2: CITY MANAGER
§ 1-20 APPOINTMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Manager is the Chief Administrative Officer of the city,
appointed by an affirmative vote of at least four Council members. He or she
has all powers and duties prescribed for him or her by the City Charter or as
may be prescribed by ordinance.
   (B)   The City Manager shall appoint all necessary employees and officers of
the city other than those appointments made by the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 1-17)
Statutory reference:
   Duties, see 11 O.S. § 10-113
Cross-reference:
   City Manager, see Charter Sections
3-1 through
3-3
ARTICLE 3: HEALTH DEPARTMENT
§ 1-30 COOPERATIVE HEALTH DEPARTMENT; DIRECTOR.
   The County Cooperative Health Department and its Director shall have the
powers of a city health department and city health officer respectively for the
city. References to the Health Department, the Health Officer or the Director
of the Health Department in this code and in other ordinances of the city mean
the Cooperative Health Department and its Director, unless the context clearly
indicates another meaning.
(`90 Code, § 1-18)
Statutory reference:
   Creation of cooperative health departments, see 63 O.S. §§ 1-202 et seq.
ARTICLE 4: CIVIL DEFENSE
§ 1-40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to create a civil defense organization for
the city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of the city. The duty of the
Civil Defense Organization shall be the protection of the lives and health of
the citizens of the city and of property rights, both private and public, and
to perform all functions necessary and incident thereto.
(`90 Code, § 1-19)
§ 1-41 DIRECTOR; ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the
government of the city a Department of Civil Defense, which shall consist of
the Director of Civil Defense, who shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city
and serve at his or her pleasure.
   (B)   The Committee shall consist of the Mayor as Chairperson, the City
Manager as Vice-Chairperson and four members appointed by the Mayor and serving
at his or her pleasure. The Committee shall select from its members the
Secretary. It shall hold meetings, as are directed by the Mayor, and its
function shall be to act in an advisory capacity as needed or requested by the
Mayor or the Director of Civil Defense.
(`90 Code, § 1-20)
§ 1-42 DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Director of Civil Defense shall be the executive head of the
Civil Defense Department and shall be responsible for carrying out the civil
defense program of the city. He or she shall serve without compensation, but
may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of his or her
duties.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Civil Defense as soon as
practicable after his or her appointment to perfect an organization to carry
out the purpose set forth in this article, and he or she shall have all
necessary power and authority to form committees or other bodies and to appoint
and designate the Chairperson or Chief Officer of the bodies as may be
necessary to perfect an organization.
   (B)   He or she shall have the further duty and responsibility to cooperate
with all civil defense agencies of other governmental units including the state
and the federal government.
(`90 Code, § 1-21)
§ 1-43 PLANS AND INFORMATION.
   The Director of Civil Defense is further authorized to formulate written
plans and gather information and keep written record thereof to govern the
functions of the Civil Defense Organization, which shall be submitted to the
City Council for approval.
(`90 Code, § 1-22)
§ 1-44 EMERGENCIES.
   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Director of Civil Defense, after due authorization from the
Mayor of the city, shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and
regulations relating to civil defense and, if necessary, take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He or
she shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other governmental
agencies or civil defense organizations. If required by the Mayor, he or she
shall have control over any and all funds allocated from any source for the
purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the city.
(`90 Code, § 1-23)
§ 1-45 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Director of Civil Defense and other members of the Civil Defense
Organization created by him or her shall have the power and authority to
enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the city during the period of
emergency and shall, at the time, have the further power to make arrests for
violations of laws or ordinances.
(`90 Code, § 1-24)
§ 1-46 COMPENSATION; LIABILITY.
   All members of the Civil Defense Organization created hereunder shall serve
without compensation, and the city shall not be liable for any personal injury
received by any member of the organization while acting in the line of duty.
(`90 Code, § 1-25)
§ 1-47 SHELTER MANAGERS; DUTIES.
   In case of national emergency, public shelter managers, duly appointed by
the Civil Defense Director, shall open public shelters, take charge of all
stocks of goods, water and other supplies stored in the shelter, admit the
public according to the city’s shelter use plan, and take whatever control
measures are necessary for the protection and safety of the occupants.
(`90 Code, § 1-26)
§ 1-48 RESTRAINT; OFFENSE.
   Shelter managers are authorized to use reasonable restraint against those
who refuse to cooperate with the routine of shelter living under emergency
conditions. Refusal to carry out the orders of the shelter manager and his or
her appointed staff shall be deemed an offense punishable as provided in §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 1-27) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
ARTICLE 5: VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS
§ 1-60 BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the Fire Department shall include:
   (A)   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   He or she is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   (C)   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
   (D)   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in succession
or three unexcused absences in a period of three months will be dropped from
the Fire Department rolls.
   (E)   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an extended period of time
will be required to notify the Chief.
   (F)   Any volunteer firefighters refusing to attend training classes
provided for him or her will be dropped.
   (G)   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be dropped from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; and
      (5)   Conviction of a felony.
ARTICLE 6: FIREFIGHTERS' PENSIONS
§ 1-70 (RESERVED).
§ 1-71 OPERATION.
   The Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement Fund shall be operated in
accordance with state laws relating to the fund. Pensions and other benefits
shall be paid as provided by state law.
(`90 Code, § 1-30) (Am. Ord. 3202, passed 4-21-09)
§ 1-72 DEDUCTIONS FROM COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deduct, each pay period from the salary
of each member of the Fire Department, an amount as prescribed by 11 O.S. § 49-
122 of the actual paid gross salary of each member of the Fire Department.
      (2)   The amount so deducted shall be deposited within ten days from each
ending payroll date the amount deducted from the salary of each member of the
Fire Department by the Treasurer in the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and
Retirement Fund.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall deposit monthly, from the general fund, into
the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement Fund an amount as prescribed
by 11 O.S. § 49-122(B) of the total actual paid gross salaries of members of
the Fire Department.
(`90 Code, § 1-31) (Ord. 2533, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2634, passed - -; Am. Ord.
3202, passed 4-21-09)
ARTICLE 7: POLICE PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM
§ 1-85 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any officer or employee of the regular Police Department of
the city appointed or employed for police duties or necessary duties in the
operation of the Police Department, and shall include jailers, radio operators,
department clerks, employees in bureaus of records, probationary patrol
officers, patrol officers, sergeants, lieutenants, captains, senior officers,
detective, secretary to the Chief of Police, and other police officers of the
Department performing police duties whose salaries are paid for with public
funds as set up in the budget of the city for the regular Police Department,
but shall not include any police commissioners, or any one employed in any
other capacity not involving police duties. In case of doubt as to whether any
person is a POLICE OFFICER, within the meaning of this article, the decision of
the Board of Trustees shall be final.
(`90 Code, § 1-32)
§ 1-86 NAME OF SYSTEM.
   The system heretofore established for the purpose of providing pension
retirement allowances and other benefits for police officers, their wives and
children, shall continue to be designated and known as the “Police Pension and
Retirement System of the City of Guthrie,” and all of its business transacted,
all of its funds handled and all of its cash and securities and other party be
held.
(`90 Code, § 1-33)
§ 1-87 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   There was heretofore created the Board of Trustees, which shall have the
operation and management of the Police Pension and Retirement System, which
Board of Trustees shall consist of the City Clerk and City Treasurer, and three
members of the Police Department which is designed and known as the Board of
Trustees of the Police Pension and Retirement System of the city.
(`90 Code, § 1-34)
§ 1-88 ELECTION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   (1)   To obtain the benefits derived by the Police Pension and
Retirement System of the city, the officers or members of the Police
Department, active and retired, shall, within 30 days from the date of the
passage of this article, elect by ballot three members of the Police Department
to the Board of Trustees hereinbefore designated.
      (2)   Until changed by law, the election of members of the Board of
Trustees by the Police Department shall continue to be done and had by a call
of the election by the Mayor, which shall be done by the City Clerk, mailing to
each and every member of the Police Department a noticed that an election shall
be held for the purpose of electing three of their number as members of the
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   The notice shall be properly addressed to each and every member
of the Police Department and deposited in the United States mail at the city
and the election shall be held five days subsequent to the giving of the
notice. The notice shall also state where the election shall be held and the
day and hour or hours when same shall be held. The voting for the Trustees
shall be done by ballot, and shall be done by placing the ballots in a ballot
box to be provided by the city, and so conducted that each elector's ballot
shall be secret as in the election for city and county offices.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall conduct the election by seeing that each and
every person so voting is a member of the Police Department of this city as
defined by this article, active or retired, and shall canvass all ballots so
voted and shall certify the results thereof to the City Council, who shall by
proper resolution declare the election of the three persons receiving the
highest number of votes to be elected.
   (C)   At the first election, one member shall be elected to serve one year,
one to serve two years and one to serve three years. At the end of the first
year, after the election and upon the same date of the succeeding year, a like
election shall be held, at which time a member of the Board of Trustees shall
be elected and shall hold his or her office for a period of three years, and
like elections shall be held each succeeding year on the date corresponding
with the date of the first election and the members so elected shall hold the
Office of Trustee of the Board for a period of three years.
   (D)   If a vacancy or vacancies should occur in the Office of Trustee or
Trustees of the Board so elected, the vacancies shall be filled by election of
a member or members, in the same manner so above provided. A vacancy shall
occur when a Trustee’s employment with the city is terminated.
   (E)   Each officer or member of the Board of Trustees so elected shall,
before he or she enters upon the duties of his or her office, take and
subscribe an oath of office to faithfully perform the duties of his or her
office and to account for all monies and property in his or her hands, and
shall execute a bond to the city in the sum of $2,500 on condition that he or
she will faithfully perform the duties of his or her office and faithfully
account and deliver to his or her successor all funds, money, bonds or other
property in his or her hands belong to the Police Pension and Retirement System
of the city.
(`90 Code, § 1-35)
§ 1-89 CHAIRPERSON; SECRETARY.
   Each year, the Trustees shall elect the Chairperson and the Secretary from
their number.
(`90 Code, § 1-36)
§ 1-90 REPORTS OF SECRETARY.
   The Secretary of the Board of Trustees shall report annually, at the time of
the election of the Board, the condition of the Police Pension and Retirement
System and the receipts and disbursements on account of the same, with a full
and complete list of the beneficiaries of the Fund in the system, for the
amount paid to each beneficiary, and shall report to the Board of Trustees the
true condition of the Police Pension and Retirement System at any meeting where
requested so to do by the Chairperson thereof, or by a majority of the members
of the Board of Trustees, and a copy of each report shall be delivered by the
City Manager and City Council.
(`90 Code, § 1-37)
§ 1-91 MEETINGS AND DUTY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the Police Pension and Retirement System
shall hold monthly meetings on the second Monday of each and every month of
each year and upon the call of its Chairperson at other times as the
Chairperson deems necessary. It shall issue orders signed by the Chairperson
and Secretary to the persons entitled thereto of the amount of money orders
paid to the persons from the funds of the Police Pension and Retirement System
by the Board, which order shall state for what purpose the payment is to be
made. It shall keep a record of its proceedings, which shall be a public
record. It shall at each monthly meeting send to the City Clerk a written or
printed list of all persons entitled to the payment which list shall be
certified and signed by the Secretary and Chairperson of the Board, and
attested under oath.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall thereupon enter a copy of the list upon the book
to be kept for this purpose, which book shall be known as the “Police Pension
and Retirement System Book” and the Board shall direct payments of the amounts
carried therein to the persons entitled thereto out of the funds.
(`90 Code, § 1-38)
§ 1-92 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum
and have the power to transact business, provided no money belonging to the
funds of the Police Pension and Retirement System shall be disbursed for any
purpose without a vote of the majority of all the members of the Board of
Trustees, which vote shall be taken by yeas and nays, and the vote of each
member so voting entered upon the proceedings of the Board.
(`90 Code, § 1-39)
§ 1-93 GENERAL POWERS OF BOARD.
   The Board of Trustees shall, in addition to the other powers herein granted,
have power to:
   (A)   Compel witnesses to attend and testify before the Board upon all
matters connected with the operations of this article, and in the same manner
as is, or may be, provided by law, for the taking of testimony before notaries
public, and its Chairperson or any member of the Board may administer oaths to
the witnesses;
   (B)   Provide for the payment from the funds of the Police Pension and
Retirement System of all its necessary expenses, and to pay for the services as
shall be required to transact the business of the Police Pension and Retirement
System, provided that no compensation or emolument shall be paid to any member
of the Board for any duties performed under this article;
   (C)   Provide all rules and regulations needful for its guidance in
conformity with the provisions of this article; and
   (D)   (1)   Invest and reinvest any funds of the Police Pension and
Retirement System in state and federal bonds only subject to all the terms,
conditions, limitations and restrictions imposed by law upon life insurance
companies in the state in making and disposing of their investments and subject
to like terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions. The Trustees shall
have full power to hold, purchase, sell, assign, transfer or dispose of any of
the securities and investments, in which any of the fund shall have been
invested, as well as of the proceeds of the investments and any moneys
belonging to the funds. The Board, for the purpose of meeting disbursements for
pensions and other payments, shall keep available cash of at least 10% of the
total amount in the several funds of the Police Pension and Retirement System
on deposit in one or more banks or trust companies in the city, which bank or
trust company shall be organized under the laws of the state or the United
States, and that the amount on deposit in any one bank or trust company shall
not exceed 25% of the paid-up capital and surplus of the bank or trust company.
      (2)   No Trustee and no employee of the Board shall have any interest in
gains or profits of any investment made by the Board of Trustees nor as such
receive any pay or emolument for his or her services. No Trustees, nor employee
of the Board of Trustees shall directly or indirectly, for himself or herself
or as an agent, in any manner use the assets of the Police Pension and
Retirement System, except to make correct and necessary payments, as are
authorized by the Board of Trustees, nor shall any Trustee or employee of the
Board become an endorser or surety or become in any manner an obliger for
moneys loaned by or borrowed from the Board of Trustees.
(`90 Code, § 1-40)
§ 1-94 CUSTODY AND DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   All moneys provided for the funds of the Police Pension and Retirement
System, by appropriation by the city, or contribution by police officers, shall
be paid over to and received by the City Treasurer for the use and benefit of
the Police Pension and Retirement System, to be disbursed as provided by law
and this article, and the additional duties this imposed on the City Treasurer
shall be and comprise additional duties for which he or she shall be liable
under his or her oath as City Treasurer.
(`90 Code, § 1-41)
§ 1-95 CONTRIBUTIONS AND GIFTS.
   Contributions and gifts of funds and property may be received to augment the
Pension Fund.
(`90 Code, § 1-42)
§ 1-96 PARTICIPATION AND CONTRIBUTIONS BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   All police officers hired by the city, including the Chief of Police,
shall be members of the Police Pension and Retirement System if eligible.
   (B)   The percentage of wages required to be contributed by the police
officer, and the amount to be contributed by the city, shall be determined in
accordance with the requirements set by state statutes pertaining to, or the
rules and regulations promulgated by the State Police Pension and Retirement
System.
(`90 Code, § 1-43) (Ord. 2685, passed 5-5-81)
§ 1-97 PURPOSE OF PENSION FUND.
   (A)   Any of the funds in the Police Pension and Retirement System, whether
paid by the city or contributed by the police officers of the city, shall be
used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   For investments, as authorized in §
1-93(D)(1);
      (2)   For the payment of pensions for long service to retired meritorious
police officers of the city; and
      (3)   For the payment of a pension to any widow, while single, and a
child or children under 18 years of age of any police officer eligible for a
pension.
   (B)   Payments, in any event, shall not exceed the limits in this article
provided.
(`90 Code, § 1-44)
§ 1-98 SERVICE PENSION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is hereby authorized and empowered to pay out of
any funds in its Police Pension and Retirement System a service pension to any
police officer eligible as hereinafter provided, 50% of the average final
yearly compensation of any police officer.
   (B)   (1)   In order for a police officer to be eligible for the service
pension, he or she must have reached the age of 55 years, or more, and his or
her service with the Police Department must have ceased.
      (2)   He or she must have served for a period of 20 years or more in some
police department in the state of a standard equivalent to that of the Police
Department of the city, five years of which service shall have been consecutive
immediately preceding the end of the period in the city. He or she must have
complied with any agreement as to contributions by him or her and other police
officer to the funds of the Police Pension and Retirement System, provided for
in this article. Any police officer meeting with all other requirements of this
article, who has served 25 years in accordance with this article, may be
retired at one-half of the final average compensation of the police officer
without regard to age. Any police officer who serves over 25 years may be
retired at one-half of the final average compensation of the police officer,
plus 2% of each additional year in excess of 25 years, not to exceed in any
event three-fourths of final average compensation of the police officer.
   (C)   Where a police officer has served for the necessary number of years
and is otherwise eligible except as to being 55 years, or more of age, if he or
she is discharge without cause or his or her office is abolished, he or she
shall be eligible for pension. When a police officer reaches the age of 70
years, he or she must retire, unless at the request of the Chief of Police, the
Board of Trustees grants him or her an extension of one year, which can be
further extended for one-year periods only at the request of the Chief of
Police.
   (D)   In the event of the death of any police officer who has been awarded a
pension under the provisions of this article, his or her widow, child or
children, shall be paid the pension so awarded, provided that the same shall
cease as to the widow, when he or she shall marry, or as to the child or
children when they become 18 years of age. The payments to be divided equally
between the child or children and widow provided, however that in the event of
the death of the widow of the police officer, the child or children under the
age of 18 shall be entitled to receive the full benefits of the pension in
equal proportions.
   (E)   In the event of the child or children dying or becoming 18 years of
age, the widow shall receive the full amount of the pension. In order for a
widow to receive the pension as in this article provided, he or she must have
been the husband or wife of the police officer at the time of his or her
retirement, and for at least three years.
(`90 Code, § 1-45)
§ 1-99 RIGHT TO WITHDRAW.
   (A)   Any police officer who has served the Police Department of the city
for a period of more than one year, and has contributed to the fund for the
period of time and has served less than 20 years in the police department of
any city or town in the state, having standards equivalent to those required in
this city, and who has entered into any agreement provided for in this article
may withdraw from the agreement and shall be paid the full amount of his or her
contributions, after deducting from the contributions all benefit payments made
to him or her under the provisions of this article, upon his or her dismissal
or resignation as an officer or employee of the Police Department of the city
after which he or she shall not receive any of the benefits provided for in
this article.
   (B)   (1)   If the police officer withdraws and decides to resume payments
at a later date, he or she must pay the amount previously withdrawn, plus all
he or she should have paid during the period of withdrawal.
      (2)   If a police officer has served for a period as provided under this
section and should die from natural causes, then and in that event, the widow
of the police officer shall be entitled to receive all of his contributions to
the Police Pension Fund, as part of his or her estate, after deducting from the
contributions all benefit payments made to him or her under the provisions of
this article.
(`90 Code, § 1-46) (Ord. 2675, passed 1-20-81)
§ 1-100 FORFEITURE OF PENSION.
   When any person who shall receive any benefits from any funds of the Police
Pension and Retirement System, as authorized by this article, shall be
convicted of any felony, or shall have become an habitual drunkard, or shall
have failed to report himself or herself for duty as by this article required,
unless excused by the Board of Trustees, or shall disobey the rules of the
Board of Trustees in respect to the examination for duty or otherwise, then the
Board shall order that the pension allowance, as may have been granted to the
person, shall immediately cease and the person shall receive no further pension
allowance or benefit as authorized to be paid by this article, unless or until,
if possible, the person shall have met the requirements for the Board.
(`90 Code, § 1-47)
§ 1-101 INSUFFICIENT FUNDS; PROBATION.
   In any case where the funds of the Police Pension and Retirement System of
the city are insufficient to make full payments of the amounts of pension or
allowance to all persons entitled thereto, then the Fund shall be prorated
among those entitled thereto as the Board of Trustees may deem just and
equitable.
(`90 Code, § 1-48)
§ 1-102 DETERMINATION OF ONE YEAR OF SERVICE.
   The governing body of the city, having established a Board of Trustees as in
this article provided, may fix and determine how much service in any year is
equivalent to one year of service, but in no case shall more than one year of
service be creditable for all service in one calendar year, nor shall credit as
service for any period of more than one months duration be allowed during which
the police officer was absent without pay.
(`90 Code, § 1-49)
§ 1-103 EXEMPTION.
   No portion of the funds of Police Pension and Retirement System shall,
either before or after any order made by the Board of Trustees for payment to
any person entitled to a pension, or allowance, be held, seized, taken, subject
to or detained, or levied on by virtue of any garnishment, attachment,
execution, injunction or other order or decree, or any process or proceeding
whatever, which have issued out of or by any court of this state, for the
payment or satisfaction in whole, or in part, of any debt, damages, claim,
demand or judgment against any person entitled to payment, nor shall the
payments or any claims thereunto be directly or indirectly assigned and any
attempt to transfer or assign the same shall be void.
(`90 Code, § 1-50)
§ 1-104 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   If the city subsequently disqualified by failure to meet the minimum
requirements of this article, the City Treasurer shall immediately transfer to
the general fund of the city the Police Pension and Retirement System Fund, and
the balance, which is to the credit of the police officer, shall be paid to
each of them in the proportions as each of the police officers have contributed
to the fund by deduction from their salaries or otherwise.
(`90 Code, § 1-51)
§ 1-105 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any police officer who has been denied pension or retirement pay from
the Board of Trustees where applications for the pension or retirement pay was
made or he or she feels that he or she was not given a fair and just
consideration may appeal from the decision of the Board to the City Council and
the decision of the City Council shall be final.
   (B)   The appeal above provided for shall be taken by filing in the Office
of the City Manager a copy of the entire proceedings had before the Board of
Trustees, including all evidence offered and produced at the hearing. The
Secretary of the Board of Trustees shall certify that the record so taken on
appeal contains all proceedings and the evidence offered before the Board of
Trustees.
(`90 Code, § 1-52)
§ 1-106 CITY PHYSICIAN.
   In the event there is no official city physician, then any physician
designated by the City Manger may perform the duties provided herein for the
city physician.
(`90 Code, § 1-53)
ARTICLE 8: OLD AGE, SURVIVORS', AND DISABILITY INSURANCE
§ 1-120 BENEFITS EXTENDED.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend, at
the earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof, not excluded by law
or this article, and whether employed in connection with a governmental or
proprietary function, the benefits of the Old Age, Survivors’, and Disability
Insurance (OASDI) (42 USC 401 et seq.) as authorized by the Federal Social
Security Act and amendments thereto, including P.L. 734, 81st Congress. In
pursuant of the policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action
as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(`90 Code, § 1-54)
§ 1-121 EXECUTION OF DOCUMENTS.
   The Mayor of the city is hereby authorized and directed to execute all
necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the State Department of Public
Welfare, as agent or agency, to secure coverage of employees and officials as
provided herein.
(`90 Code, § 1-55)
§ 1-122 WITHHOLDINGS.
   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials, for the
purpose provided herein, are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at
the times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations
and shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated by the laws or
regulations.
(`90 Code, § 1-56)
§ 1-123 APPROPRIATIONS.
   There shall be appropriated from available funds the amounts at the times as
may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for
employer’s contributions, which shall be paid over to the state or federal
agency designated by the laws or regulations.
(`90 Code, § 1-57)
§ 1-124 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The city shall keep records and make reports as may be required by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(`90 Code, § 1-58)
§ 1-125 PERSONNEL EXCLUDED.
   There is hereby excluded from this article any authority to make any
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official now covered
or authorized to be covered by any other ordinance creating any retirement
system for any employee or official of the city.
(`90 Code, § 1-59)
§ 1-126 FURTHER EXCLUSIONS.
   There is hereby excluded from this article any authority to make any
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official engaged in
rendering services of an emergency nature or any position or any employee or
official engaged in rendering services in positions the compensation for which
is on a fee basis, or any elective office or any elective official engaged in
rendering legislative, executive or judicial services, or any position, or any
employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations.
(`90 Code, § 1-60)
ARTICLE 9: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM – DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN
§ 1-140 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the state and for
the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on the part of
its employees and to promote public efficiency and to comply with rulings of
the United States Supreme Court regarding sexual discrimination, there is
hereby authorized, approved and adopted, effective as of February 6, 1984,
Ordinance 2731 amending the Employee Retirement System of the city, an executed
counterpart of which is marked Exhibit “A” adopted and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this code.
   (B)   The Mayor and Clerk be, and they are each hereby authorized and
directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an
original), this amendment to the retirement system, and to do all other acts
and things necessary, advisable and proper to put the amendment into full force
and effect, and to make the change therein as may be necessary to qualify the
same under Sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of the
United States. The counterpart marked as Exhibit “A”, and attached to Ordinance
2731 which has been duly executed as aforesaid simultaneously with the passage
of this article and made a part hereof, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all
respects.
   (C)   Exhibit “A” is on file in the City Clerk’s Office and is subject to
public inspection. Ord. 2779, amending the definition of “employee” is also on
file in the City Clerk’s Office.
(`90 Code, § 1-61)
§ 1-141 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of administration of the system there is hereby
established a Board of Trustees, which shall be the members of the City
Council, as now existing or as from time to time duly elected or appointed and
constituted.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the Board of Trustees shall be as set forth
in the system instrument.
(`90 Code, § 1-62)
§ 1-142 FUND.
   (A)   (1)   A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of
the persons entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to the
fund shall be paid over to and received in trust for the purpose by the City
Treasurer, who shall be treasurer of the system.
      (2)   The fund shall be pooled for purposes of management investment with
similar funds of other incorporated cities and town in the state as a part of
the State Municipal Retirement Fund in accordance with a duly executed contract
for the purpose which contract shall be executed by the City Council as soon as
feasible.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall hold the contributions in the form received
and, from time to time, pay over and transfer the same to the State Municipal
Retirement Fund, as duly authorized and directed by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The fund shall be non-fiscal and shall not be considered in computing
any levy when the annual estimate is made to the County Excise Board. The fund
and system shall be valued each year for actuarial soundness by a qualified
actuarial firm.
(`90 Code, § 1-63)
§ 1-143 APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to appropriate annually the amounts as
are required in addition to employee contributions, to maintain its amended
retirement system on a sound actuarial basis in accordance with the respective
biannual actuarial valuation.
   (B)   Any appropriation so made to maintain the amended retirement system
shall be for deferred wages or salaries and for the payment of necessary
expenses of operation and administration, and shall be paid into the State
Municipal Retirement fund when available, through the City Treasurer, to be by
him or her duly transferred to the fund.
(`90 Code, § 1-64)
§ 1-144 EXECUTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and City Clerk are each hereby authorized and directed
to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original) the
system instrument, and to do all other acts and things necessary, advisable and
proper to put the system and related trust into full force and effect, and to
make such changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the same under
Sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of the United States.
      (2)   The counterpart attached hereto as Exhibit A, which has been duly
executed as aforesaid simultaneously with the passage of this article and made
a part hereof, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
   (B)   This City Council is hereby authorized and directed to proceed
immediately on behalf of the city to negotiate a contract with other
incorporated cities and town of the state to pool and combine the fund into the
State Municipal Retirement Fund a part thereof, with similar funds of the other
cities and towns, for purposes of pooled management and investment. The City
Council shall manifest approval of the contract and the execution thereof by
the Mayor and City Clerk by a formal resolution.
(`90 Code, § 1-65)
§ 1-145 AMENDMENT OF COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Due to changes in federal law, and in order to comply with certain
requirements of the Internal Revenue Service regarding the tax qualified status
of the Employee Retirement System and Plan of the city, it is necessary to
amend the definition of compensation contained in the Employee Retirement
System and Plan as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   (1)   The Employee Retirement System and Plan of the city, as adopted,
is hereby amended only by adding the following language to the definition of
compensation in the State Municipal Retirement System Master Defined Benefit
Plan and Trust, as amended and restated July 1, 1992, which is attached to
Ordinance No. 2969 as Exhibit “A” thereto and expressly incorporated therein
and adopted by reference. In addition to other applicable limitations set forth
in the plan, and notwithstanding any other provision of the plan to the
contrary, for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 1994, the annual
compensation of each employee taken into account under the plan shall not
exceed the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (OBRA'93) annual
compensation limit. The OBRA'93 annual compensation limit is $150,000, as
adjusted by the Commissioner for increases in the cost of living in accordance
with Section 401(a)(17)(B) of the Code. The cost-of-living adjustment in effect
for a calendar year applies to any period, not exceeding 12 months over which
compensation is determined (determination period) beginning in the calendar
year. If a determination period consists of fewer than 12 months, the OBRA'93
annual compensation limit will be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of
which is the number of months in the determination period, and the denominator
of which is 12. For plan years beginning on or after January 1, 1994, any
reference in this plan to the limitation under Section 401(x)(17) of the code
shall mean the OBRA '93 annual compensation limit in effect for that prior
determination period.
      (2)   For this purpose, for determination periods beginning before the
first day of the first plan year beginning on or after January 1, 1994, the
OBRA'93 annual compensation limit is $150,000.
(Ord. 3009, passed 5-7-96)
§ 1-146 AMENDMENT OF PLAN.
   (A)   (1)   The Employee Retirement System, Defined Benefit Plan, of the
City of Guthrie, Oklahoma, is hereby amended as reflected on Exhibit “A”
attached to Ordinance 3092, which is incorporated herein and adopted by
reference. These amendments became effective on October 1, 2001.
      (2)   The City Clerk and Mayor are hereby authorized and directed to
execute the amended Retirement System Plan documents and to do all the other
acts necessary to put said amendment into effect and to maintain IRS
qualification of the Plan. The executed amended document attached to Ord. 3092
as Exhibit “A” is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
      (3)   Exhibit “A” is on file in the City Clerk’s office and is subject to
public inspection.
   (B)   (1)   The Employee Retirement System, Defined Benefit Plan, of the
City of Guthrie, Oklahoma, is hereby amended as shown on Exhibit “A” attached
to Ordinance 3111, which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference.
      (2)   Exhibit “A” is on file in the City Clerk’s office and is subject to
public inspection.
   (C)   (1)   The Employee Retirement System, Defined Benefit Plan, of the
City of Guthrie, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to include the definition of
“spouse” by Section 1 of Ordinance 3261, which is incorporated herein and
adopted by reference.
      (2)   Ordinance 3261 is on file in the City Clerk’s office and is subject
to public inspection.
(Ord. 3092, passed 9-18-01; Am. Ord. 3111, passed 3-18-03; Am. Ord. 3261,
passed 9-16-14)
ARTICLE 9A: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM – DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN
§ 1-150 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Plan restated. Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the
State of Oklahoma, and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and
meritorious service on the part of city employees and thereby promote public
efficiency, there is hereby authorized created, established, and approved and
adopted, effective as of October 1, 2015, the amended and restated Plan
designated “Employee Retirement System of the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma,
Defined Contribution Plan,” (hereinafter called “System”), an executed
counterpart of which is marked Exhibit A (Joinder Agreement) and Exhibit B
(amended and restated plan) and attached to Ordinance 3271. Exhibits A and B
are incorporated herein and adopted by reference. Ordinance 3261, and Exhibits
A and B thereto, is on file in the City Clerk’s office and is subject to public
inspection.
   (B)   Fund. A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of
the persons entitled to benefits under the System. All contributions to such
fund shall be paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the city.
Such Fund shall be pooled for purposes of management and investment with
similar funds of other incorporated cities, towns, and municipal trusts in the
State of Oklahoma as a part of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund in
accordance with the trust agreement of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund,
a public trust. The city shall hold such contributions in the form received,
and from time to time pay over and transfer the same to the Oklahoma Municipal
Retirement Fund, as duly authorized and directed by the Board of Trustees. The
Fund shall be nonfiscal and shall not be considered in computing any levy when
the annual estimate is made to the County Excise Board.
   (C)   Appropriations. The City of Guthrie, Oklahoma, is hereby authorized to
incur the necessary expenses for the establishment, operation, and
administration of the System, and to appropriate and pay the same. In addition,
the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma, is hereby authorized to appropriate annually
such amounts as are required in addition to employee contributions to maintain
the System and the Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Defined
Contribution Plan. Any appropriation so made to maintain the System and Fund
shall be for deferred wages or salaries, and for the payment of necessary
expenses of operation and administration to be transferred to the trustees of
the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund, for such purposes and shall be paid
into the Fund when available, to be duly transferred to the Oklahoma Municipal
Retirement Fund.
   (D)   Execution. The Mayor and City Clerk be and they are each hereby
authorized and directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall
constitute an original) the System instrument, and to do all other acts and
things necessary, advisable, and proper to put said System and related trust
into full force and effect, and to make such changes therein as may be
necessary to qualify the same under §§ 401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code of the United States. This Committee is hereby authorized and
directed to proceed immediately on behalf of the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma, to
pool and combine the Fund into the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund as a part
thereof, with similar funds of such other cities and towns, for purposes of
pooled management and investment.
(Ord. 3247, passed 2-5-13; Ord. 3271, passed 6-16-15)
ARTICLE 10: LIBRARY BOARD
§ 1-155 LIBRARY BOARD CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Library Board for the city.
   (B)   The Library Board shall be composed of five members to be appointed as
provided herein.
(`90 Code, § 1-72)
§ 1-156 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city shall, with the approval of the City Council,
appoint five members of the Library Board.
   (B)   Thereafter all appointments shall be for a term of three years, and
shall be subject to City Council approval.
(`90 Code, § 1-73) (Ord. 2678, passed 4-7-81)
§ 1-157 DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Library Board shall make recommendations to the Mayor, City Council and
City Manager on the operation, functions, maintenance, policies of and all
matters concerning the public library.
(`90 Code, § 1-74) (Ord. 2678, passed 4-7-81)
ARTICLE 11: OPEN RECORDS ACT
§ 1-170 PURPOSE.
   For identification purposes, this article shall be called the “Guthrie Open
Records Act.”
(`90 Code, § 1-75) (Ord. 2789, passed 12-17-85)
§ 1-171 PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   All records received, generated, made kept, maintained or otherwise in the
possession of the city, the trusts of which the city is beneficiary or their
officers, officials or employees, unless otherwise provided by law, shall be
open for public inspection and copying, in accordance with the provisions of
Senate Bill 276 to be codified in 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
(`90 Code, § 1-76) (Ord. 2789, passed 12-17-85)
§ 1-172 DEFINITIONS.
   As used herein, the terms “record,” “public body,” “public office,” “public
official” and “law enforcement agency” shall carry the same meaning as those
terms or words as defined in the state statutes.
(`90 Code, § 1-77) (Ord. 2789, passed 12-17-85)
§ 1-173 ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCEDURES.
   The City Manager shall establish specific procedures in support of the
provisions of this article and in compliance with the state statutes.
(`90 Code, § 1-78) (Ord. 2789, passed 12-17-85)
§ 1-174 DAYS AND HOURS OF AVAILABILITY.
   Records open for public inspection or copying shall be made available, upon
request, anytime Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., holidays
excluded.
(`90 Code, § 1-79) (Ord. 2789, passed 12-17-85)
§ 1-175 RECORDS CUSTODIANS.
   (A)   The following city officers are hereby designated as record custodians
for the city:
      (1)   City Manager;
      (2)   Assistant City Manager;
      (3)   City Attorney;
      (4)   City Clerk;
      (5)   City Treasurer;
      (6)   Chief of Police;
      (7)   Fire Chief;
      (8)   City Planner; and
      (9)   City Librarian.
   (B)   Each of the records custodians appointed herein are hereby authorized
to designate subordinate employees to serve as additional record custodians,
subject to the approval of the City Manager.
   (C)   Any and all members of the public, in seeking access to or copies of a
public record, shall address their request to the record custodian charged with
responsibility for the maintenance of the records sought. Should a request for
inspection or copying be made of a record custodian not holding that specific
record, the contacted record custodian shall so inform the person requesting
the record.
(`90 Code, § 1-80) (Ord. 2789, passed 12-17-85)
§ 1-176 EXEMPTIONS.
   This article does not apply to records specifically required by laws to be
kept confidential including:
   (A)   Records not discoverable under state law, such as material prepared in
anticipation of litigation or trials;
   (B)   Records protected by state evidentiary privilege such as attorney-
client and the identity of informer privileges; or
   (C)   Records of what transpired during meetings of a public body lawfully
closed to the public, such as executive sessions authorized under the State
Open Meeting Act (25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq.)
(`90 Code, § 1-81) (Ord. 2789, passed 12-17-85)
§ 1-177 LIMITED ACCESS TO PERSONNEL RECORDS.
   The following personnel records of city or trusts, of which the city is
beneficiary, are considered confidential and are not subject to public
inspection:
   (A)   Those personnel records which relate to internal personnel
investigations including examination and selection material for employment,
hiring, appointment, promotion, demotion, disciplines or resignation;
   (B)   Where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of
personal privacy, such as employee evaluations, payroll deductions or
employment applications submitted by persons not hired by the public body or
its officers; or
   (C)   All personnel records not specifically falling within the exceptions
provided in divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall be available for public
inspection and copying including, but not limited to records of:
      (1)   An employment application of a person who becomes a public
official;
      (2)   The gross receipts of public funds;
      (3)   The dates of employment, title or position; and
      (4)   Any final disciplinary action resulting in loss of pay, suspension,
demotion of position or termination.
   (D)   Except as may otherwise be made confidential by statute, an employee
of a public body shall have the right of access to his or her own personnel
file.
(`90 Code, § 1-82) (Ord. 2789, passed 12-17-85)
§ 1-178 FEES.
   (A)   A reasonable fee for the recovery of the cost of document copying or
mechanical reproduction is hereby established.
   (B)   Request made solely for commercial purposes or which would clearly
cause excessive disruption of any department, then and in that event, a fee
shall be assessed to recover the direct cost of document search. In no case
shall a search fee be charged when the release of the documents is made to the
news media, scholars, authors and taxpayers seeking to determine whether those
entrusted with the affairs of the city are honestly, faithfully and competently
performing their duties.
      (1)   Copying or reproduction fees shall be pre-paid prior to copying or
reproduction as set out in the fee schedule at the end of this code.
      (2)   Search fees, when assessed, shall be computed based on the total
hourly rate of compensation of each employee involved with the search, rounded
to the nearest 15-minute interval, of time actually involved in the search.
Persons, firms or entities failing to pay legally assessed search fees or
falsely claiming exemption, shall be guilty of filing a fraudulent claim
against the city, and may be subject to legal prosecution.
      (3)   All fees and charges established by this article are hereby made a
part of the fee schedule at the end of this code and shall be subject to
modification, whether increase or decrease, by resolution of the City Council,
passed and approved by a simple majority vote of the Council.
      (4)   A copy of current fees established by this section shall be filed
with the County Clerk.
(`90 Code, § 1-83) (Ord. 2789, passed 12-17-85)
ARTICLE 12: ELECTIONS
§ 1-190 ABSENTEE BALLOTS.
   The use of absentee ballots in all municipal elections in the city is hereby
authorized in accordance with the election laws of the state.
(`90 Code, § 1-85) (Ord. 2715, passed 2-1-83)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal elections, see Charter Sections
6-1 et seq.
ARTICLE 13: RESERVE POLICE FORCE
§ 1-200 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   An auxiliary reserve police force which shall be separate and distinct
from the regular Police Department, is hereby established pursuant to and
consistent with 11 O.S. § 34-101 and is to be known as the Reserve Police
Force.
   (B)   The Reserve Police Force shall be headed by the Chief of Police,
subject at all times to the actual management, control and supervision of the
City Manager. The Chief of Police may from time to time appoint a regular,
full-time police officer to command and coordinate the activities of the
Reserve Police Force consistent with local, federal and state law, the City
Charter, the city code, ordinances, city rules, regulations and procedures and
Police Department rules, regulations and procedures.
   (C)   (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed, pursuant
to and consistent with state law, to appoint from time to time qualified
individuals to serve as reserve municipal police officers in the Reserve Police
Force on a part-time basis, for not more than 25 hours per calendar week, with
the express prior written approval of the City Manager of each reserve police
officer. The Reserve Police Force shall be limited at all times to no more than
20 reserve police officers. The Chief of Police is further authorized and
directed to suspend, discipline, demote, remove and terminate reserve police
officers upon approval of the City Manager. Reserve police officers shall have
the powers, duties and functions as set forth in law or ordinance for regular
full-time police officers and shall perform their duties only while on
authorized duty.
      (2)   To qualify for membership at any time as a reserve police officer,
all persons must at all times meet the minimum requirements of 11 O.S. § 34-101
(B) on reserve municipal police officers, the minimum requirements of 70 O.S. §
3311 on the Council on Law Enforcement Education and Training and any other
minimum requirement(s) developed, instituted or required from time to time by
the state.
      (3)   To further qualify for membership at any and all times as a reserve
police officer, all persons must at all times maintain their actual residence
within the county or within a 30-minute driving distance of the Police Station
of the Police Department calculated by driving at all times within posted speed
limits.
      (4)   Former regular full-time police officers who voluntarily retired or
voluntarily resigned their employment with the city while not on disciplinary
probation or facing disciplinary action at the time of their resignation and
who are otherwise qualified, are eligible to apply to serve as reserve police
officers.
      (5)   No person(s) who is at any time then-employed by the city on a
full-time or a part- time basis is eligible for consideration or appointment as
a reserve police officer. Certain personnel in the city Fire Department, for
the purposes of Fire Marshal/investigation duties and/or specialized response
team duties (SRT/SWAT), shall be eligible for appointment as reserve police
officers.
   (D)   (1)   No person appointed as a reserve police officer shall serve for
an indefinite or unlimited term but rather are limited to a term not to exceed
two years at a time, which term may be extended or renewed upon the written
request of a reserve police officer who verifies in writing that he or she
continues to meet all of the requirements hereof, upon verification of the
accuracy of the written request, review and express prior written approval of
the Chief of Police and the City Manager.
      (2)   Any reserve police officer may at any time resign and if so, he or
she shall notify the Chief of Police in writing of the resignation.
   (E)   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to develop,
establish, implement, amend and maintain or cause to be developed, established,
implemented, amended and maintained, a uniform policy in writing on the Reserve
Police Force consistent with federal, state and local law, statutes,
ordinances, codes, rules and regulations, to take all steps or actions
necessary or convenient to ensure that the written policy is at all times
consistent with federal, state and local law, statutes, ordinances, codes,
rules and regulations, and to take all steps or actions necessary or convenient
to ensure that the written policy is at all times uniformly and consistently
followed.
(Ord. 3006, passed 2-20-96; Am. Ord. 3293, passed 8-2-16)
§ 1-201 POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Reserve police officers shall, upon completion of required training
and firearms qualification and while on authorized duty only, carry firearms on
the prior express written order of the Chief of Police, which order may be
modified, lifted or rescinded at any time as to any individual reserve police
officer.
   (B)   Reserve police officers, upon completion of all state and city
mandated training requirements, shall have all of the powers of arrest as
provided by state law and city ordinances.
(Ord. 3006, passed 2-20-96)
§ 1-202 IMPERSONATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be an offense and a violation for any person who is not a duly
appointed reserve police officer to wear, carry or display a reserve police
officer uniform or any portion thereof, a Reserve Police Force identification
card, badge or insignia or to otherwise wrongfully or deceitfully represent
himself or herself as a reserve police officer at any time, punishable upon
conviction thereof by a fine of not to exceed $100, plus court costs.
(Ord. 3006, passed 2-20-96)
ARTICLE 14: EMPLOYEE RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS
§ 1-210 CHIEF OF POLICE AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The positions of Chief of Police and Fire Chief, as appointed by the City
Manager pursuant to Section
1-20 of Article 2: City Manager of Chapter l : Agencies, Officers and Employees
of the Guthrie Municipal Code, shall be subject to the following residency
requirements:
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the City of Guthrie and the Fire Chief of the
City of Guthrie shall reside within the boundary of the Guthrie Public School
District, the Coyle Public School District, or within twenty (20) miles of the
Guthrie Fire Station:
      (1)   At the time of their appointment; or
      (2)   Within ninety (90) days of the commencement of their employment
with the City of Guthrie; or
      (3)   Within a reasonable period of time of the commencement of their
employment with the City of Guthrie as determined by the City Manager based
upon the employee's individual circumstances.
   (B)   Failure to become a resident within the prescribed time set forth in
division (A) of this section shall be grounds for immediate removal from such
position.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the Chief of Police and Fire Chief in
such position at the time of enactment of this section, but shall apply to any
and all appointments to these positions subsequent to the passage and approval
of this section.
(Ord. 3358, passed 6-15-21; Ord. 3394, passed 6-20-23)
CHAPTER 2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Article 1: Taxation and Regulations
   
2-1.   Definitions
   
2-2.   Occupation tax levied
   
2-3.   Tax to be paid to City Clerk; records and receipt
   
2-4.   Expiration and occupation
   
2-5.   Operation prohibited until tax paid
   
2-6.   City Clerk to make report
   
2-7.   Violation of state law
   
2-8.   Days and hours of operation
   
2-9.   Offenses
   
2-10.   Advertisement of alcohol prohibited at city sponsored events
   
2-11.   Separate premises required
   
2-12.   Beverages taken through passageway
   
2-13.   Selling requirements
   
2-14.   Consumption on premises
   
2-15.   Retail sales
   
2-16.   Forbidden areas
   
2-17.   Transportation
   
2-18.   Credit sales
   
2-19.   Giving prizes
   
2-20.   Retail delivery on certain days
   
2-21.   Intoxicated persons in restaurants; possession
   
2-22.   Separate offenses
Article 2: Nonintoxicating Beverages
   
2-35.   Definition
   
2-36.   Sale to minors
   
2-37.   Prohibited hours
   
2-38.   (Reserved)
   
2-39.   (Reserved)
   
2-40.   (Reserved)
   
2-41.   Prohibited sale
   
2-42.   Dance halls; alcohol sale
   
2-43.   Exception
   
2-44.   Possession
   
2-45.   Transportation
   
2-46.   Days and hours of operation
   
2-47.   Permission and consumption
   
2-48.   Liability; violations
   
2-49.   Permitting or allowing gatherings where minors are consuming alcoholic
beverages
Article 3: Special Events Serving Non-Intoxicating or Intoxicating Beverages
   
2-100.   Permit required
   
2-101.   Definitions
   
2-102.   Non-intoxicating and intoxicating beverage permits – Application
   
2-103.   Special events permit – Conditions for approval
   
2-104.   Special event – Fees
   
2-105.   Continuing compliance
   
2-106.   Penalty
Article 4: Adult Recreation Centers
   
2-115.   Definitions
   
2-116.   License and permit required
   
2-117.   Application for license
   
2-118.   Application for permit
   
2-119.   Investigation
   
2-120.   Issuance of license or permit
   
2-121.   Denial of license or permit
   
2-122.   Appeal from denial of license or permit
   
2-123.   Fees
   
2-124.   Expiration of license or permit
   
2-125.   Operation regulations
   
2-126.   Display of license or permit
   
2-127.   Unlawful acts
   
2-128.   Suspension or revocation
   
2-129.   Separate license required for dual operation
 
   
2-170.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: TAXATION AND REGULATIONS
§ 2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Beverages controlled by the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board.
   PACKAGE STORE. A retail alcoholic beverage store.
   STATE LICENSEE. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation or association
who holds a license issued by the authority of the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act, 37 O.S. §§ 501 through 599.
(`90 Code, § 2-1)
§ 2-2 OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual occupation tax upon each person, firm
or corporation engaged within the city in any of the following occupations, in
the sums respectively set out in the fee schedule at the end of this code.
      (1)   Brewer;
      (2)   Distiller;
      (3)   Winemaker;
      (4)   State winemaker;
      (5)   Rectifier;
      (6)   Wholesaler;
      (7)   Class B wholesaler;
      (8)   Package store;
      (9)   Bonded warehouse; and
      (10)    Nonresident seller.
   (B)   The above occupation taxes for brewer and Class B wholesaler shall be
reduced by 75% if the license is also holder of a state license to manufacture
or wholesale, as the case may be, any nonintoxicating malt beverages as
provided in Title 37 of state statutes.
(`90 Code, § 2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions of low-point beer, nonintoxicating beverages, and
nonintoxicating malt beverage, see 37 O.S. § 163.1
§ 2-3 TAX TO BE PAID TO CITY CLERK; RECORDS; TAX RECEIPT.
   All occupation taxes herein provided shall be paid in advance, to the City
Clerk, who shall issue a receipt therefor. The City Clerk shall record the name
of the licensee and the address where he or she engages in his or her
occupation. The records shall be duly filed and kept in the permanent files of
the city for at least five years. Thereafter, upon resolution by the Council,
the records may be destroyed. Every person receiving a receipt from the City
Clerk shall post the tax receipt in a conspicuous place in the premises where
he or she carries on his or her occupation.
(`90 Code, § 2-3)
§ 2-4 EXPIRATION AND OCCUPATION.
   (A)   All occupation taxes levied under the provisions of this article
expire on June 30 of each year.
   (B)   The amount of any occupation tax levied shall be computed pro rata
upon the months remaining in the year ending June 30 following. The taxes paid
on or before the fifteenth day of any month shall be on the basis of the first
day of the month, and the taxes paid after the fifteenth day of any month shall
be on the basis of the first day of the next succeeding month.
(`90 Code, § 2-4)
§ 2-5 OPERATION PROHIBITED UNTIL TAX PAID.
   No brewer, distiller, winemaker, state winemaker, rectifier, wholesaler,
Class B wholesaler or retail package store shall do business, or offer to do
business in the city until the occupation tax levied by this article has been
paid in full to the City Clerk and receipt issued therefor.
(`90 Code, § 2-5)
§ 2-6 CITY CLERK TO MAKE REPORT.
   The City Clerk shall make and transmit to the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board an annual report showing the number and class of licensees upon
which occupation taxes were levied and the amount of money collected from the
taxes.
(`90 Code, § 2-6)
§ 2-7 VIOLATION OF STATE LAW.
   Any violation of any state law in connection with any of the matters covered
by this article shall be construed to be a specific violation of this article,
whether specifically covered by the provisions of this article or not.
(`90 Code, § 2-7)
§ 2-8 DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No retail package store shall be open for the purpose of selling any
alcoholic beverage at any hour other than between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday. No sales shall be made, or retail package
store be allowed to remain open for the purpose of doing business, making
sales, or receiving deliveries of alcoholic liquors, on the day of any general,
primary, primary run-off, or special election while the polls are open, whether
on a national, state, county or city election, or on New Year’s Day, Memorial
Day, the Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas
Day.
(`90 Code, § 2-8)
§ 2-9 OFFENSES.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person under the age of 21 years to be
employed in the selling or handling of alcoholic beverages within the city.
   (B)   It is an offense to sell, furnish or give any alcoholic beverage to
any person under 21 years of age, or to any intoxicated, insane or mentally
deficient person.
   (C)   It is an offense to permit any person under 21 years of age to enter
into, remain within or loiter about the premises of any retail package store.
   (D)   It is an offense for any person to misrepresent his or her age in
writing or by presenting false documentation of age for the purpose of inducing
any person to sell him or her alcoholic beverage.
(`90 Code, § 2-9)
§ 2-10 ADVERTISEMENT OF ALCOHOL PROHIBITED AT CITY SPONSORED EVENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to market or
advertise, in any manner or method, products which contain alcohol at any event
sponsored by the city.
   (B)   Events sponsored by the city shall include, but are not limited to:
sporting events, parades, dances, concerts, or festivals.
   (C)   Any person who knowingly violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not
more than $500.
(`90 Code, § 2-10) (Am. Ord. 3246, passed 2-5-13)
§ 2-11 SEPARATE PREMISES REQUIRED.
   It is an offense for any person to maintain, operate or assist in any manner
in the maintenance or operation of a retail package store unless the premises
are separated from adjoining premises on which any other goods, wares or
merchandise are sold or services are rendered, by nontransparent walls, broken
only, if at all, by a passageway to which the public is not admitted.
(`90 Code, § 2-11)
§ 2-12 BEVERAGES TAKEN THROUGH PASSAGEWAY.
   It is an offense for any person to take any alcoholic beverage through any
passageway described herein, for the purpose of selling or reselling the
beverage, or for the purpose of delivery thereon in connection with a sale of
the beverages.
(`90 Code, § 2-12)
§ 2-13 SELLING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to sell or deliver any alcoholic
beverages at a retail alcohol beverage store other than:
      (1)   In retail containers;
      (2)   At ordinary room temperatures;
      (3)   In the original package; and/or
      (4)   For consumption off premises.
   (B)   It is an offense for any person to permit any alcoholic beverage to be
consumed or any retail container of the beverage to be broken or opened on the
premises of any retail package store.
(`90 Code, § 2-13)
§ 2-14 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   It is an offense for any person to drink or consume in any manner any
alcoholic beverage on the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store, or to
open or break the seal of any original package or retail container containing
alcoholic beverages on the premises.
(`90 Code, § 2-14)
§ 2-15 RETAIL SALES.
   It is an offense for any person to sell at retail or to deliver in
consequence or in completion of any sale any alcoholic beverages at or to any
place in the city, except at a retail alcoholic beverage store, is strict
conformity with this article and the laws of the state.
(`90 Code, § 2-15)
§ 2-16 FORBIDDEN AREAS.
   It is an offense for any person to own, operate, maintain or be interested
in any manner in any establishment mentioned in §
2-2 at a place within the city which is forbidden as a location for the
establishment by the laws of the state or by the ordinances of the city.
(`90 Code, § 2-16)
§ 2-17 TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to transport any
alcoholic beverage, as defined in this article, upon any public highway,
street, alley or other public thoroughfare within the corporate limits of the
city unless the beverage is contained:
      (1)   In an unopened container, the container being the original
container with the original seal being unbroken and the original cap or cork
not removed from the original container; or
      (2)   In a locked, latched or closed compartment or in any other closed
container which is out of public view and out of reach of the driver or
operator of the motor vehicle and out of reach of any occupant of the motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Alcoholic beverage as used in this article shall be defined as
any beverage which is controlled by the State Beverage Control Act, 37 O.S. §§
501 through 599.
      (2)   Non-intoxicating beverage as used in this article shall be defined
as any beverage containing more than .5% of alcohol by volume, and not more
than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
(`90 Code, § 2-17) (Ord. 2597, passed - -)
§ 2-18 CREDIT SALES.
   It is an offense for any person to sell at retail or to sell at any retail
alcoholic beverage store, any alcoholic beverage on credit.
(`90 Code, § 2-18)
§ 2-19 GIVING PRIZES.
   It is an offense for any person to offer or to furnish any prize, premium,
gift or similar inducement to any customer or consumer in connection with the
sale or attempted sale of any alcoholic beverage.
(`90 Code, § 2-19)
§ 2-20 RETAIL DELIVERY ON CERTAIN DAYS.
   It is an offense for any person to sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic
beverage store any amount of spirits, wines or other kind of alcoholic
beverage, on Saturday of any week, on Sunday of any week, on New Year’s Day, on
Memorial Day, on the Fourth of July, on Labor Day, on Thanksgiving Day, on
Christmas Day or while the polls are open on the day of any general, primary,
run-off primary or special election, whether nation, state, county or city.
(`90 Code, § 2-20)
§ 2-21 INTOXICATED PERSONS IN RESTAURANTS; POSSESSION.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person, whether as owner, manager, operator
or employee of any café, restaurant, club or any place of recreation within the
city to permit any person to be or to become drunk, intoxicated or to be under
the influence of intoxicating drink at the place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to have in his or
her possession an open container of any alcoholic beverage, as defined in this
article, on any street, sidewalk, alley or any public property within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   “Alcoholic beverage,” as used in this article, shall be defined as any
beverage which is controlled by the State Beverage Control Act, 37 O.S. §§ 501
through 599.
(`90 Code, § 2-21) (Ord. 2598, passed - -)
§ 2-22 SEPARATE OFFENSES.
   Each day’s violation of this article shall constitute a separate offense,
but nothing herein contained shall be construed as determining that not more
than any one offense can be committed in any one day by the same person.
(`90 Code, § 2-22)
ARTICLE 2: NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES
§ 2-35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOW-POINT BEER, INTOXICATING BEVERAGES, and NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES OR
MALT BEVERAGE. All beverages containing more than 3.2% alcohol by weight and
all mixed beverage coolers, as defined in 37 O.S. § 506, regardless of percent
of alcoholic content, are hereby  declared to be INTOXICATING. All beverages
containing more than ½ of 1% alcohol by volume and not more than 3.2% alcohol
by weight are hereby declared to be LOW-POINT BEER. Wherever the term
NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGE or NONINTOXICATING MALT BEVERAGE appears in this
chapter, such term shall be construed to mean low-point beer. The manufacture,
distribution, and sale of low-point beer, including but not limited to beer or
cereal malt beverages are hereby declared subject to the provisions of 37 O.S.
§§ 163.1 et seq.
(`90 Code, § 2-24)
§ 2-36 SALE TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or barter to any person under 21
years of age any nonintoxicating beverage, as herein defined.
(`90 Code, § 2-26)
§ 2-37 PROHIBITED HOURS.
   From and after the effective date of this article, it shall be unlawful for
any place licensed to sell beverages containing more than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume and not more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight to sell the beverages for
consumption on the premises between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 7:00 a.m.,
excepting Saturday nights when the beverages may not be sold between the hours
of 2:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays. The governing body of any city or town
is authorized to prohibit, by ordinance regularly enacted, the sale of the
beverages between the hours of 12:00 p.m. on Saturday and 7:00 a.m. of the
following Monday.
(`90 Code, § 2-27)
§ 2-38 (RESERVED).
§ 2-39 (RESERVED).
§ 2-40 (RESERVED).
§ 2-41 PROHIBITED SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation to sell or otherwise dispense for consumption on the premises
beverages containing more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 3.2%
of alcohol by weight at any place in the state outside the limits of the city
where the entrances to the place are within 1,000 feet of the nearest public
entrance to premises outside the limits of the city, wherein public or private
dancing is conducted or permitted.
(`90 Code, § 2-31)
§ 2-42 DANCE HALLS; ALCOHOL SALE.
   Subject to the provisions of §
2-43, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm copartnership, association or
corporation to open a public or private dance hall:
   (A)   In any location, the entrance or entrances to dance halls shall be
within 300 feet, as pedestrians travel, of the nearest entrance to any place in
which beverages are sold for consumption on the premises; or
   (B)   Outside the limits in any location, the entrance or entrances to which
dance hall shall be within 1,000 feet, as pedestrians travel, of the nearest
entrance of any place outside the limits of any incorporated city or town in
which beverages, as defined in §
2-35, are sold for consumption on the premises.
(`90 Code, § 2-32)
§ 2-43 EXCEPTION.
   The limitations on the sale of beverages, the issuance of licenses therefor,
contained in this article as they relate to dancing in private homes, or to
private dances conducted for recreational purposes and not for profit by bona
fide lodges, posts, clubs, fraternal, benevolent or charitable organizations;
nor shall the provisions of this article prevent the sale or licensing of the
sale of the beverages in drug stores, cafes or restaurants selling food for
consumption on the premises, in which drug stores, cafés or restaurants dancing
is not conducted or permitted.
(`90 Code, § 2-33)
§ 2-44 POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to have in his or her
possession an open container of any nonintoxicating beverage, as defined in
this article, on any street, sidewalk, alley or any public property within the
corporate limits of the city.
(`90 Code, § 2-34) (Ord. 2598, passed - -)
§ 2-45 TRANSPORTATION.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to transport any
nonintoxicating beverage, as defined in this article, upon any public highway,
street, alley or other public thoroughfare within the corporate limits of the
city unless the beverage is contained:
   (A)   In an unopened container, the container being the original container
with the original seal being unbroken and the original cap or cork not removed
from the original container; or
   (B)   In a locked, latched or closed compartment or in any other closed
container which is out of public view and out of reach of the driver or
operator of the motor vehicle and out of reach of any occupant of the motor
vehicle.
(`90 Code, § 2-35) (Ord. 2597, passed - -)
§ 2-46 DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful and deemed an offense for any retail dealer in
nonintoxicating beverages for consumption on or off the premises, to permit or
tolerate the consumption of beverages more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume on
the premises of the establishment, tavern or bar, except during the time as the
tavern or bar or other retail establishment is permittee by ordinances of the
city to sell the beverages for consumption on the premises.
(`90 Code, § 2-36) (Ord. 2524, passed - -)
§ 2-47 PERMISSION AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   To permit or tolerate any one person to consume beverages containing
more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume on the premises of the establishment,
tavern or bar, except during the time as the tavern or bar or other retail
establishment is permitted by ordinances of the city to sell the beverages for
consumption on the premises, shall constitute a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 2-37) (Ord. 2524, passed - -)
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ESTABLISHMENT, TAVERN or BAR. A designated location approved by the city,
where low-point beer is sold for on-site consumption.
      LICENSED PREMISES. The designated area on private property, approved by
the city for operation of a establishment, tavern or bar where nonintoxicating
alcoholic beverages are sold for on-site consumption.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, limited liability
company or corporation, whether conducted for profit or not for profit.
      (2)   The applicant shall certify that the applicant has never been
convicted of any alcohol related offenses (misdemeanor or felony) or convicted
for violating any state liquor or alcohol laws. Conviction for an alcohol
related offense or violation of state liquor or alcohol laws shall prohibit the
applicant from obtaining a license under this chapter.
      (3)   Application for a permit for an establishment, tavern or bar
engaged in the sale of nonintoxicating alcoholic beverages for on-site
consumption shall be made to the City Clerk, and may be granted upon satisfying
the conditions set forth in this section. The application shall be made upon
forms approved by the City Clerk and contain the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant; (The
applicant shall be the actual person who will operate the proposed
establishment, tavern or bar.)
         (b)   A site plan showing the proposed area designated for the sale
and consumption of nonintoxicating alcoholic beverages for the establishment,
tavern or bar; (The site plan shall include a detailed description and drawing
showing the ingress and egress to the designated area, and the location of
privacy fencing required by this article.)
         (c)   A certificate of liability insurance coverage, including host
liquor liability, with limits for personal injury and property damage not less
than the city's limits of liability under the Governmental Tort Claims Act;
         (d)   A statement, signed by the applicant, certifying that if a
permit is approved, the applicant agrees to abide by all applicable laws and
ordinances of the city and state, and to indemnify and hold the city harmless
from any and all liability arising out of the use or condition of the premises
or operation of the establishment, tavern or bar; and
         (e)   Other information as the City Clerk deems appropriate.
      (4)   If the licensed premises for the sale and consumption of
nonintoxicating alcoholic beverages shall include both an indoor and outdoor
location, the outdoor location, if any, shall be contiguous, and immediately
adjacent to the indoor location and the sole means of ingress and egress to the
outdoor location shall be through the indoor facility.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain an
establishment, tavern or bar where nonintoxicating alcoholic beverages are sold
and consumed, except in continuous conformity with the following regulations:
         (a)   The boundaries of any outdoor location to be operated as a part
of the licensed premises shall be clearly marked with a non-metallic sight-
proof fence or barrier not less than six feet in height and made of sufficient
material to prevent litter generated within the establishment, tavern or bar
from blowing outside the area.
         (b)   The requirement in division (B)(5)(a) above, for constructing a
sight-proof fence or barrier may be waived upon specific findings by the City
Manager, or his or her designee, that an adequate barrier exists in the form of
the natural topography of the licensed premises and the surrounding property,
or in the form of other natural barriers or vegetation. In finding that a
sufficient barrier exists, a specific finding must be made that the alternative
to a sight-proof fence or physical barrier will provide adequate separation
between the licensed premises and adjoining properties and any residential or
commercial population present on adjoining properties to the licensed premises
is sufficiently blocked from view by the alternative barrier, so that the
business operating upon the licensed premises does not intrude upon or disturb
the residential or commercial population on the adjoining property. In making
findings, the City Manager, or his or her designee, shall consider the
population density and the nature of the land and building usage on the
adjacent properties, requiring that as the population density or land use
increases, a more significant and restrictive barrier, whether natural or
constructed, shall be required. In the event the application for a permit is
denied because of the absence of an adequate barrier, natural or otherwise, the
applicant may appeal the denial of a permit to the City Council by filing a
written request for consideration by the Council within ten days after the
issuance of a decision denying the application.
(Ord. 3039, passed 12-1-98; Am. Ord. 3051, passed 6-15-99; Am. Ord. 3081,
passed 8-7-01)
§ 2-48 LIABILITY; VIOLATIONS.
   Any person having charge of the tavern, bar or retail establishment or
operating or assisting in operating the same while the beverages are permitted
or tolerated to be consumed on the premises of the tavern, bar or other retail
establishment, except during the time the beverages are permitted to be sold by
ordinances of the city shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction
thereof be punished as provided herein.
(`90 Code, § 2-38) (Ord. 2524, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2823, passed - -)
§ 2-49 PERMITTING OR ALLOWING GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS ARE CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
      GATHERING. A party or event where a group of three or more persons have
assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social activity.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
the court.
      MINOR. Any person less than 21 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent,
or stepparent of another person.
      PREMISES. Any residence or other private property, place, or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
      RESPONSE COSTS. The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including but not
limited to:
         (a)   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement,
fire, or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent
responding to, remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the
administrative costs attributable to such response(s);
         (b)   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire, or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering;
         (c)   The cost of repairing any city equipment, in responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering; and
         (d)   Any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this
section.
   (B)   Consumption of alcohol by minor in public place, place open to public,
or place not open to public. Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful
for any minor to consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic
beverage, unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage
that minor is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   (C)   Hosting, permitting, or allowing a party, gathering, or event where
minors consuming alcoholic beverages prohibited.
      (1)    It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting drivers’ licenses or other government-issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in division (C)(1) above.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use of
alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as a non-family gathering.
      (5)    Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public then
said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
nonreligious gathering.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person who shall violate the provisions of this Section
shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the city and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished with fine of not more than $500, plus all court costs
and statutory penalties.
   (E)   Reservation of legal options. Violations of this section may be
prosecuted by the city criminally, civilly, or through both processes. The city
may seek administrative fees and response costs associated with enforcement of
this section through all remedies or procedures provided by statute, ordinance,
or law. This section shall not limit the authority of peace officers or private
citizens to make arrests for any criminal offense arising out of conduct
regulated by this section, nor shall they limit the city’s ability to initiate
and prosecute any criminal offense arising out of the same circumstances
necessitating the application of this section.
(Ord. 3243, passed 12-4-12)
ARTICLE 3: SPECIAL EVENTS SERVING NON-INTOXICATING
OR INTOXICATING BEVERAGES
§ 2-100 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall hereafter keep, maintain, conduct or operate any special
event in the city which distributes intoxicating or non-intoxicating beverages
without first obtaining a permit and paying the fee provided herein.
(Ord. 3025, passed 8-19-97; Am. Ord. 3052, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord. 3205,
passed 11-3-09; Am. Ord. 3258, passed 8-5-14; Am. Ord. 3291, passed 7-19-16)
§ 2-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED AREA. The premises on public property approved by the city.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT. The Capitol Townsite Historic District as
defined in §
4-212.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGES. All beverages containing more than 3.2% alcohol by
weight, and mixed alcoholic beverages (example includes wine).
   NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES. All beverages containing more than .5% alcohol
by volume and less than 3.2% alcohol by weight (example includes beer).
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association or corporation,
whether conducted for profit or not for profit.
   SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT. An annual permit allowing a person to sell and
distribute intoxicating beverages (with a valid ABLE Commission license), or to
sell and distribute non-intoxicating beverages  (with a valid county license),
within designated areas for intoxicating beverages and Historic Preservation
District for non-intoxicating beverages or within enclosed structures, for
occasional and limited duration.
(Ord. 3025, passed 8-19-97; Am. Ord. 3052, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord. 3258,
passed 8-5-14; Am. Ord. 3291, passed 7-19-16)
§ 2-102 NON-INTOXICATING AND INTOXICATING BEVERAGE PERMITS – APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a special event permit where intoxicating and/or non-
intoxicating beverages are sold or distributed shall be made to the Office of
the City Manager and may be granted upon satisfying the conditions set forth in
this article. The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant; (The
applicant shall be the actual person who will operate the special event.)
      (2)   A site plan showing the proposed designated area for the special
event; the site plan shall include a statement from the sponsoring organization
of the community-wide activity approving the proposed location of the special
event. The sponsoring organization will designate on the site plan the location
for multiple vendors, if there will be more than one.
      (3)   The dates when the special event shall be conducted;
      (4)   A copy of the applicant’s current on-premises low-point beer
license issued by Logan County if serving non-intoxicating beverages;
      (5)   Each vendor shall present a certificate of liability insurance
coverage, including host liquor liability, with limits for personal injury and
property damage not less than the city’s limits of liability under the
Governmental Tort Claims Act;
      (6)   A statement, signed by the applicant and each vendor, certifying
that if a permit is approved, the applicant agrees to abide by all applicable
laws and ordinances of the city and to indemnify and hold the city harmless
from any and all liability arising out of the use or condition of the premises
or operation of the special event; and
      (7)   Other information as the City Manager deems appropriate.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for a special event unless application for
the same is submitted to the Community Development office at least three
working days in advance of the community-wide activity. Applications for
special events will be considered in the order received.
(Ord. 3025, passed 8-19-97; Am. Ord. 3052, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord. 3258,
passed 8-5-14; Am. Ord. 3291, passed 7-19-16)
§ 2-103 SPECIAL EVENTS PERMIT – CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Special event permits shall not exceed the period of the celebration,
event or festival for which it is part.
   (B)   Only those persons holding a current valid licenses from Logan County
for non-intoxicating beverages and ABLE Commission for intoxicating beverages
shall be eligible to sell or distribute non-intoxicating or intoxicating
beverages.
   (C)   The designated area for non-intoxicating beverages shall be restricted
to those public streets and properties within the Guthrie Historic Townsite
District. Nothing in this article shall be construed to require the city to
close any property, street or streets during any community-wide activity. No
part of the special event permit shall be located within 150 feet of any
property zoned for residential use or school use.
   (D)   The designated area for intoxicating beverages shall be restricted to
clearly marked with a nonmetallic fence or barricade not less than three feet
in height and made of sufficient material to prevent litter generated within
the special event from blowing outside the area. The fence or barrier shall
comply with all city ordinances regarding sight clearance at intersections.
Ingress and egress to the designated area shall be from public property. Non-
intoxicating beverages shall be limited to a serving capacity of one person for
each ten square feet of designated area.
(Ord. 3025, passed 8-19-97; Am. Ord. 3052, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord. 3258,
passed 8-5-14; Am. Ord. 3291, passed 7-19-16)
§ 2-104 SPECIAL EVENT – FEES.
   (A)   For each special event a fee designated in the Schedule of Fees as
compensation for the exclusive use of public property, plus a refundable
cleaning deposit will be required. A permit shall be issued only for the
designated area shown in the original application.
   (B)   Permits shall not be transferable to other persons or other designated
areas. Except for the cleaning deposit required herein, neither refunds nor
credits, in full or pro rata, shall be made for operating a special event for
less than three days duration for any reason, inclement weather included.
(Ord. 3025, passed 8-19-97; Am. Ord. 3052, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord. 3205,
passed 11-3-09; Am. Ord. 3258, passed 8-5-14; Am. Ord. 3291, passed 7-19-14)
§ 2-105 CONTINUING COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain a special Event
selling or distributing intoxicating beverages, except in continuous conformity
with the following regulations:
   (A)   Special events permit may be used on the approved dates from 11:00
a.m. to 2:00 a.m. daily.
   (B)   All beverages shall be sold or dispensed in non-glass containers
unless otherwise granted permission by the City Manager.
   (C)   Each special event, while in operation, shall be conducted in
conformance with all applicable city, county and state laws regulating the
dispensing and on premises consumption of low-point beer, and all other
applicable laws and ordinances.
   (D)   The permit issued pursuant to this article shall be kept on the
premises of the special event during all hours of operation and shall be made
available for inspection upon request of law enforcement authorities of the
city.
(Ord. 3025, passed 8-19-97; Am. Ord. 3052, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord. 3258,
passed 8-5-14; Am. Ord. 3291, passed 7-19-16)
§ 2-106 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of
Article 3 or who allows or attempts to allow a special event permit to be used
by another person to operate a special event, or who applies for a permit with
the intent to transfer or attempt to transfer the permit, shall be guilty of an
offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined up to $200, plus costs.
Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of Article 3 or any
provision of this chapter shall not be eligible to receive a special event
permit for a period of one year following the conviction.
(Ord. 3025, passed 8-19-97; Am. Ord. 3052, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord 3258, passed
8-5-14; Am. Ord. 3291, passed 7-19-16)
ARTICLE 4: ADULT RECREATION CENTERS
§ 2-115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT RECREATION CENTER. A room or place where persons of either sex 18
years of age or older or, if under 18 years of age, when accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian, are permitted to operate coin-operated amusement
devices.
   ADULTS. Persons 18 years of age or older.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her duly authorized representative.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any and all mechanical, electrical or
electronic devices, including pool tables, billiard tables and snooker tables,
which the payment or insertion of a coin, token or similar object, causes,
permits or propels any ball, image, marble or other gadget or object to produce
or create, or make possible the production or creation of a game of skill,
amusement, entertainment or test of strength, including, but not limited to
shuffle boards, coin-operated devices utilizing tables, television screens,
boards or cases of any size, balls, sticks, cues, pegs, images or marbles and
whether or not any motivating force involved is furnished by the player of the
device.
   FAMILY RECREATION CENTER. A room or place where persons of all ages and
either sex are permitted to play or operate coin-operated amusement devices.
The definitions appearing herein shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Any room or place or establishment which derives less than 25% of
its gross receipts from coin-operated amusement devices; or
      (2)   Any room or place operated or maintained in whole or in part by
public funds.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The total amount of consideration for the sale of tangible
personal property and services offered at the establishment, including the
total amount of consideration which is paid or inserted into the coin-operated
amusement devices, without any deduction therefrom for cost of the property
sold, labor services performed, interest paid, lease or equipment rental or any
other expense.
   RECREATION CENTER OPERATOR PERMIT. A current, valid photo identification
permit approved and issued hereunder by the Office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-116 LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall constitute a nuisance and be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation, association, partnership or joint venture to maintain, operate or
manage within the corporate limits of the city a family recreation center or
adult recreation center without first obtaining a license therefor as provided
hereunder.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an adult possessing a
recreation center operator permit to manage the recreation center or to serve
as supervisory personnel.
   (C)   A license or permit issued under the provisions of this article shall
not be deemed to be in lieu of, nor as a substitute for a license or permit
issued for the operation of a tavern or other establishment, as defined in
Article 2 above.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-117 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for a license for a family recreation center or adult
recreation center shall be made to the City Manager on the forms made available
by the City Manager and shall include:
      (1)   The name of the owner of the real estate, fixtures for which the
license is to be issued and the description of the real estate;
      (2)   If the applicant is not the owner of the real estate and fixtures,
a copy of the lease or other arrangement under which the applicant holds
possession thereof;
      (3)   The full name, age, residence, present and previous employment
record of the applicant, or if the applicant is an association, partnership,
joint venture or corporation, the information concerning the operators,
partners, principal backers, officers, directors and, if a corporation, the
stockholders of 25% or more of the outstanding stock;
      (4)   The length of time the applicant or operators, partners, principal
backers, officers, directors and stockholders of 25% or more of the outstanding
stock have been bona fide residents of the state immediately preceding the
filing of the application; and the previous addresses for the last ten years of
each of the above;
      (5)   In the case of a corporation, association, partnership or joint
venture, the date of formation and the date when the same was authorized to do
business in the state, if applicable; and
      (6)   Other information as the City Manager shall find reasonably
necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to make a fair
determination of the moral qualifications of the applicant, principal backers,
managers and supervisory personnel.
   (B)   Every application for a family recreation center or adult recreation
center license shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee.
   (C)   Applicants for family recreation center or adult recreation center
licenses shall execute an agreement that the premises covered by the
application may be inspected by any officer of the Police Department of the
city at any time the premises are occupied. Failure or refusal to permit
immediate inspection of the premises of each facility shall constitute grounds
for suspension or revocation of a license issued hereunder.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-118 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a recreation center operator permit shall be made to
the City Manager on forms prepared and made available by the City Manager and
shall provide the following:
      (1)   The applicant's full name, date of birth, citizenship and personal
description;
      (2)   A statement of any arrests or convictions;
      (3)   The applicant's address and employment for last five years;
      (4)   The employer's signature verifying the employment of the applicant;
      (5)   A signed affidavit that applicant has not made any untruthful
statements nor omitted any requested information; and
      (6)   Other information as the City Manager deems necessary to enforce
the provisions of this chapter and to make a determination of the fitness and
moral qualifications of the applicant.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
application fee.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-119 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for license for the operation of a
family recreation center or adult recreation center or an application for a
recreation center operator permit, the City Manager shall forward the same to
the Chief of Police who shall promptly cause an investigation to be made of the
applicant and all persons named in the application.
   (B)   No license for a family recreation center or adult recreation center
shall be issued until it shall be found by inspection that the facility
complies with and conforms to all sections of this and other ordinances and
health and fire regulations of the city, that it is properly ventilated and
supplied with sufficient toilet conveniences, that it is adequately lighted and
is a safe and proper place for the purpose for which it is used.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-120 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Manager shall authorize the issuance of a family recreation
center or adult recreation center license for the operation of the facility
hereunder, or recreation center operator permit, when he or she finds after
investigation:
      (1)   All persons named on the application are adults and:
         (a)   Have not been convicted of any felony unless the person has
received a full pardon; and
         (b)   Have not been convicted of a misdemeanor concerning
prostitution, gambling, larceny, embezzlement, drugs, marijuana, assault and
battery, domestic abuse, any offense resulting in recordation as a convicted
sex offender, contributing to the delinquency of a minor, causing a juvenile to
come within the purview of the juvenile court, or any crime concerning this
article unless five years have passed since the last conviction.
      (2)   The manner in which the applicant proposes to operate the family
recreation center or adult recreation center does not violate any provisions of
the statutes and regulations of the state, nor the ordinances of the city; and
      (3)   No person named on the application holds a federal gambling tax
stamp.
   (B)   A misstatement of material fact made in any application shall be
grounds for denial of issuance of license or permit and revocation of any
license or permit issued hereunder.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-121 DENIAL OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   The City Manager shall act upon the application for the license or permit
within 15 days after the filing thereof. If the City Manager denies the
application, he or she shall notify the applicant in writing within five days
after the denial, giving the reasons for the denial.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-122 APPEAL FROM DENIAL OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, association partnership or joint
venture, whose application for a license or permit is denied, shall have the
right to appeal to the Council.
   (B)   Notice of the appeal stating the grounds therefor shall be filed with
the City Manager and the City Clerk within five days after receipt of the
notice of denial. At its next available meeting, the Council shall hold a
public hearing upon the appeal at which hearing the applicant, the City
Manager, and other interested parties may present evidence. The Council shall
affirm or reverse the denial of the license or permit.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-123 FEES.
   (A)   The specific fees for permits and licenses issued hereunder are as set
out in the fee schedule at the end of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Upon the expiration of a license or permit issued hereunder, and upon
payment of the annual license or permit fee, the City Manager shall issue a
renewal license or permit to those whose licenses or permits have not been
revoked and who have complied with the provisions of this article. No license
or permit shall be renewed which is more than 60 days past its expiration date.
Any licensee or permittee whose application for renewal is made more than 60
days following the expiration date of the license or permit must reapply as a
new applicant.
   (C)   In the event of loss of permit, a replacement permit shall be issued
to the permittee by the City Manager upon payment by the permittee of a fee.
The replacement permit shall be valid for the unexpired period of the original
permit.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-124 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE AND PERMIT.
   A license or permit issued hereunder shall expire on December 31 of each
year. The full annual renewal fee shall be collected regardless of the issuance
date of the original license or permit. Licenses or permits hereunder shall not
be transferable.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-125 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In the event a family recreation center is to be located immediately
adjacent to a licensed adult recreation center or licensed tavern, the
establishments shall be separated by a sight-proof, physical barrier, running
from floor to ceiling of both establishments. There shall be no means of
ingress and egress between the family recreation center and the adult
recreation center or tavern. Should fire safety requirements provide for
emergency exits, they shall be constructed in a manner to prevent unrestricted
access between the establishments. Failure to construct a barrier shall
constitute an offense under this article.
   (B)   It shall be an offense, punishable as hereinafter set forth, and
grounds for the revocation or suspension of the license or permit issued
hereunder for any family recreation center operator, manager or person having
supervisory control thereof or employee to do or permit to be done any of the
following:
      (1)   Violate any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Violate any of the statutes of the state;
      (3)   Operate or be open for operation during hours other than the
following, provided, however, that on any day preceding a day when city public
schools are not in session, closing hours are extended from midnight to 1:00
a.m.:
         (a)   Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00
midnight;
         (b)   Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. the following Saturday
morning;
         (c)   Saturday from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. the following Sunday
morning; and
         (d)   Sunday from 12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight.
      (4)   Permit any person who is not an employee to be or remain on the
licensed premises or in that portion of the premises wherein the recreation
activities take place more than 15 minutes after closing time;
      (5)   Operate without having at least one person possessing a recreation
center operator permit present on the licensed premises during hours of
operation;
      (6)   Permit on the premises any beer, intoxicating alcoholic beverage or
any intoxicated person;
      (7)   Permit on the premises any person under the age of 16 years during
a public school day prior to 3:00 p.m., except when accompanied by a parent or
legal guardian or as part of a recognized school sponsored activity; or
      (8)   Operate without having the entrance of the family recreation center
plainly marked family recreation center.
   (C)   It shall constitute an offense, punishable as hereinafter set forth,
and grounds for the revocation or suspension of the license or permit issued
herein for any adult recreation center operator, employee, manager or person
having supervisory control thereof, to do or permit to be done any of the
following:
      (1)   Violate any of the provisions of this chapter or any provisions of
any other ordinance under which a license has been issued covering the same
premises;
      (2)   Violate any of the statutes of the state;
      (3)   Operate without having at least one person possessing a recreation
center operator permit present on the licensed premises during hours of
operation;
      (4)   Permit on the premises any person under the age of 18 years unless
the person is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian; or
      (5)   Operate without having the entrance of the adult recreation center
plainly marked “Adult recreation center. Persons under 18 years of age not
admitted unless accompanied by parent or legal guardian.”
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-126 DISPLAY OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Every family recreation center or adult recreation center issued a
license hereunder shall place and exhibit the license at all times while the
license is in force in a conspicuous place upon the licensed premises.
   (B)   Every person issued a recreation center operator permit, while on
duty, shall have the permit on his or her person or within the premises, and
shall present the permit upon demand by any enforcement officer.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-127 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to work in a licensed recreation
center in the capacity of a manager, operator or person having supervisory
control over the premises without possessing a valid permit issue by the City
Manager.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to work in a licensed recreation
center in a capacity which requires a permit and fail to display the required
permit upon demand by any enforcement officer.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or possess any false or
falsified permit issued or purporting on its face to have been issued under the
provisions of this article.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, reproduce or falsify a
permit issued or purporting on its face to have been issued under the
provisions of this chapter or to give, lend, sell or otherwise provide to any
person an altered, reproduced or falsified permit.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee to give, lend, sell or
otherwise provide the permit to any other person, or for any person not the
lawful holder of the permit to use or represent the same to be his or her own.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-128 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Manager may suspend, for not more than 15 days, or may revoke
a license or permit issued hereunder, if, after notice and hearing, as herein
provided, the City Manager finds that the holder of the license or permit has
made a material misstatement in the application or the renewal thereof, or that
any manager, operator or supervisory personnel has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter, or has been convicted of any of the offenses set
forth in §
2-120.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall investigate complaints concerning family
recreation centers and adult recreation centers, and if he or she finds that a
violation of the provisions hereof has been committed, he or she shall file a
complaint with the City Manager setting forth the alleged violation. Upon the
filing of a complaint, the City Manager shall fix a date for hearing of the
complaint and shall cause to be served upon the licensee or permittee a copy of
the complaint and notice of the time and place of the hearing. The complaint
and notice of hearing shall be served upon the copartner, manager, operator or
person having supervisory control over the premises of the family recreation
center or adult recreation center, or if the person cannot be found, by mailing
the same by registered mail addressed to the person at the licensed premises.
   (C)   (1)   The City Manager shall conduct a hearing on the complaint no
less than five nor more than 20 days after service of the complaint. At the
hearing, the complainant, the licensee or permittee or any interested person
may be present and present the evidence as may be relevant and material. If at
the conclusion of the hearing the City Manager finds the licensee or permittee
has made a material misstatement in the application for a license or permit, or
has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, the City Manager shall
suspend, for not more than 15 days, or revoke the license or permit issued
hereunder.
      (2)   Under suspension or revocation, the licensee shall immediately
cease operation as a family recreation center or adult recreation center, lock
the doors to the licensed premises and bar the public therefrom and the
permittee shall immediately surrender his or her permit to the City Manager.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-129 SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED FOR DUAL OPERATION.
   (A)   A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment of
any family recreation center or adult recreation center, and each license shall
authorize the operation of the facility only at the location described in the
license.
   (B)   Any licensee wishing to operate both as a family recreation center and
as an adult recreation center shall purchase both licenses for that location
and shall sign a dual operation affidavit.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
§ 2-170 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision contained in
Article 1 is an offense against the city. Upon conviction of any offense, the
violator shall be punished as provided in
Chapter 12 this code.
(`90 Code, § 2-23) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership, joint
venture, operator, co-operator, manager, employee or member thereof who shall
violate any of the provisions of
Article 4 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $100. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of
Article 4 shall not be eligible to receive a permit for operating a family
recreation facility for a period of one year following the conviction.
(Ord. 3038, passed 12-1-98)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
CHAPTER 3: ANIMALS
Article 1: General Provisions
   
3-1.   Definitions
   
3-2.   Animal Control Officer
Article 2: Licensing Provisions
   
3-15.   License and registration required
   
3-16.   Unlawful removal of collar and/or tag
Article 3: Animals at Large or Diseased
   
3-30.   Owners cited
   
3-31.   Impoundment or destruction
   
3-32.   Disposition of diseased animals
   
3-33.   Rabies or suspected rabies
Article 4: Care and Maintenance
   
3-45.   Animal care
   
3-46.   Kennel operation prohibited
   
3-47.   Dog run locations
   
3-48.   Nuisance animals
   
3-49.   Disturbing animals
   
3-50.   Noisy animals; complaint procedure
   
3-51.   Duty of driver upon striking a pet animal
   
3-52.   Tethering
Article 5: Waste Disposal
   
3-60.   Waste disposal
Article 6: Exotic and Vicious Animals
   
3-70.   Exotic and vicious animals
   
3-71.   Procedure
Article 7: Livestock and Large Animals
   
3-80.   Running at large prohibited
   
3-81.   Impoundment and sale of animals
Article 8: Police Dogs
   
3-90.   Unlawful to harass or taunt
Article 9: Conflicts
   
3-100.   Zoning ordinance to prevail
   
3-120.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACRE. Property containing 43,560 square feet.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The Chief of Police, his or her designee or another
person or persons employed by the city as its enforcement officer in the
impoundment of animals, controlling of animals running at large, and as
otherwise provided or required in this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by action of the Council for the
purposes of impounding and caring for animals.
   AT LARGE or RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal when it is off the property of its
owner and not under the control of a competent person. As applied to dogs, AT
LARGE or RUNNING AT LARGE means:
      (1)   OFF PREMISES. Off the premises of its owner and not securely and
physically restrained by means of chain, cord, harness, leash, rope or other
device required to restrain the animal. Any animal within an automobile or
other vehicle of its owner or owner’s agent shall not be deemed running at
large.
      (2)   ON PREMISES. On the premises of the owner and not confined or at
heel on those premises. Underground electronic fencing is acceptable, however,
a sign must be clearly posted near the driveway of the residence.
   DOMESTIC BIRDS. Canaries, parrots, parakeets, mynah birds, peacocks, birds
of paradise or other birds tamed to the household or pertaining thereto.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL.
      (1)   As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, any
animal which is usually not a domestic animal and which can normally be found
in the wild state, with or without vicious propensities. For purposes of this
chapter, the list would include, but not be limited to the following.
      (2)   Within the scientific order, Carnivora; animals of the scientific
family:
         (a)   Canidae, such as wolves, coyotes and jackals;
         (b)   Hybrids, any animal bred with an animal not from its own
species; domestic dog bred with a wolf or wolf hybrid.
         (c)   Felidae, including but not limited to the genetic lineages:
lynx, such as lynxes and bobcats; ocelot, such as ocelots and margay; panthers,
such as lions, tigers, leopards and jaguars; puma, such as cougars (mountain
lions) and cheetahs.
         (d)   Hyaenidae, such as hyenas.
         (e)   Ursidae, such as bears.
         (f)   Exotic animals would also include the Macaque genus primates
(Asiatic monkeys).
         (g)   EXOTIC ANIMAL also includes snakes, rear-fanged and constrictors
and anacondas, such as: Boidae, such as boa constrictors and anacondas.
Elapidae, such as cobras and death adders. Pythonidae, such as pythons.
Viperidae, including both true vipers and pit vipers, such as adders, asps,
rattlesnakes, copperheads and cotton mouths.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any animal that has been bitten by, or exposed to any
other animal known to have been infected with rabies and also any animal that
has bitten a human or any other animal.
   FOWL. Chickens, guineas, geese, ducks and pigeons.
   IMPOUNDMENT. Placing an animal in the animal control vehicle or unit or
holding an animal in custody at the animal control shelter.
   KEEPER or OWNER. Any person, family, firm or corporation owning or actually
keeping, having, using or maintaining any of the animals herein referred to.
   KENNEL. Any place where any combination of four or more dogs older than four
months of age are sheltered, fed and watered.
   LARGE ANIMALS OR LIVESTOCK. Horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep or
any other animal of similar size or stature.
   NEUTER. To render a male dog or cat unable to reproduce.
   NUISANCE. The conduct or behavior of any small or large animal, or dog which
molests passers- by or passing vehicles; attacks other animals; damages private
or public property; barks, whines, howls, crows or makes other noises in an
excessive, continuous fashion which annoys the comfort, repose, health or
safety of the people in the community; unconfined in season.
   PERMIT. The permit issued by the City Clerk upon approval of the city.
   PET ANIMAL. Any animal sold or kept for the purpose of being kept or
domesticated as a household pet. PET ANIMAL includes but is not limited to
dogs, cats, birds, rabbits, ferrets, hamsters, guinea pigs, gerbils, rats,
mice, non-poisonous arachnids, non-poisonous insects, non-venomous snakes and
fish.
   POLICE DOG. For the purpose of this chapter, any dog used by the Police
Department in the performance of the function or duties of the Department, or
used by any Police Officer on the performance of any of the functions or duties
of the Department or of the Police Officer.
   PROVOKE or PROVOCATION. With respect to an attack by an animal, that the
animal was hit, kicked or struck by a person with an object or any part of a
person’s body, or that any part of the animal’s body is pulled, pinched or
squeezed by a person.
   RABIES. An acute viral disease of humans and warm-blooded animals that
affects the central nervous system, and is usually fatal.
   RAT-PROOF. The state of being constructed so as to effectively prevent entry
of rats.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is controlled by leash or tether, either of which shall
not exceed six feet in length, by a competent person or within any vehicle,
trailer or other conveyance being driven, pulled or parked on the street or
confined within the property limits of its owner or keeper.
   SANITARY. Any condition of good odor and cleanliness, which precludes the
probability of disease transmission and insect breeding, and which preserves
the health of the city.
   SMALL ANIMALS. Rabbits, hares, guinea pigs, chinchillas, turkeys, fowl,
hamsters, pigeons or any other animal of similar size or stature.
   SPAY. To remove the ovaries of a female dog or cat in order to render the
animal unable to reproduce.
   TETHERING.  The action of tying an animal with a rope, chain or other device
so as to restrict the animal's movement.
   VACCINATION. An injection of United States Department of Agriculture
approved rabies vaccine administered every 12 calendar months by a licensed
veterinarian.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal which has behaved in a manner that the owner thereof
knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of tendencies to
attack or to bite human beings or other animals;
      (2)   Any animal certified by a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, after
observation thereof, as posing a danger to human life, animal life or property
upon the basis of a reasonable medical probability;
      (3)   Any animal that commits an unprovoked attack on a person or animal
on public or private property; or
      (4)    Any animal, unprovoked, that injures any person in such a manner
as to cause severe or great bodily injury.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08; Am. Ord. 3295, passed 9-6-16; Am. Ord. 3357, passed
6-15-21)
§ 3-2 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The City Manager shall appoint for a period, to be terminated at his or her
pleasure, a qualified person to act in the capacity of Animal Control Officer,
and he or she, for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter,
shall possess all the powers of a Police Officer.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
ARTICLE 2: LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 3-15 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   A license is required by any person owning, keeping, harboring or
having custody of any dog or cat over the age of four months within the city
limits.
   (B)   Application for license shall be made in person to the city, which
shall include name and address of applicant, description of the animal, the
appropriate fee and rabies certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian.
   (C)   The license shall be good for a period of one year, if not revoked.
All licenses are renewable on or before July 1, of each year.
   (D)   Application for a license must be made within 30 days after obtaining
a dog or cat over the age of four months of age. This requirement does not
apply to a nonresident keeping a dog or cat within the city for less than 60
days.
   (E)   A license shall be issued after the payment of the applicable fee
listed in the fee schedule at the end of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   A certification by a licensed veterinarian shall accompany the license
request for a spayed or neutered dog or cat.
   (G)   Upon the acceptance of the license application and fee, the licensing
authority shall issue a durable tag with an identifying number and the date of
expiration.
   (H)   Persons who fail to obtain a license as required within the time
period specified in this section would be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (I)   A duplicate license will be issued for a fee as set out in the fee
schedule at the end of this code of ordinances.
   (J)   License fees shall not be required for seeing eye dogs, dogs that have
a specific medical purpose or governmental police dogs.
   (K)   No person may use any license for any animal other than the animal for
which it was issued.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-16 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF COLLAR AND/OR TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any collar or tag from the
collar from any animal without the owner’s consent.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
ARTICLE 3: ANIMALS AT LARGE OR DISEASED
§ 3-30 OWNERS CITED.
   (A)   Any dog or large animal running at large in the city shall be taken up
by the Animal Control Officer and impounded at the animal shelter or other
appropriate facility.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer may, at his or her discretion, cite the
owner of the dog or large animal to appear in Municipal Court to answer charges
of violation of this chapter.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to:
         (a)   Own, keep, possess, harbor or allow to remain on premises, under
his or her control, any dog, cat, ferret or any other domesticated animal prone
to carry rabies, unless the animal over four months old has a current
vaccination against rabies;
         (b)   Allow any female dog in season (estrus) to run at large; (They
shall be kept confined in a manner that the female dog cannot come in contact
with other animals, except for controlled breeding purposes. Female animals
picked up by the Animal Control Officer which are in season (estrus) shall be
kept separate from male animals at all times);
         (c)   Fail or refuse to deliver to the Animal Control Officer, upon
demand, any suspected animal, at-large dog or any animal the keeping or
harboring of which is declared to be an offense;
         (d)   Harbor, keep or have possession of any vicious animal or animal
which is a nuisance;
         (e)   Remove or fail to affix or attach to the collar or harness worn
by dogs a current tag;
         (f)   Keep any animal, wild by nature or dangerous, except when kept
by a licensed circus or show or in a zoo or accredited school;
         (g)   Own, keep, possess or harbor any dog outdoors which is not
confined in a yard, a substantial and secure pen or under control by leash.
Each time the dog is not restrained, and shall be running at large shall
constitute a separate offense. The Animal Control Officer shall promptly
impound each and every dog that is running at large in the city and which is
not confined as described herein;
         (h)   Possess any livestock within the corporate city limits, except
on areas zoned A-1 or A-2 (City Zoning Ordinance 3131);
         (i)   Possessing hogs, pot-bellied pigs or any type of swine are not
allowed in any zoning areas (City Zoning Ordinance 3131); or
         (j)   Have any animal on a rope, cable or chain that is within 15 feet
of any sidewalk, street, or public access.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or possessor of any
chicken, duck, turkey, goose or other domestic bird or fowl, to permit the same
to run at large in the city. All fowl running at large shall be deemed a public
nuisance, and any person allowing his or her domestic fowl to run at large
shall be guilty of an offense. It shall be the responsibility of the Animal
Control Officer or police officer to notify the owner/custodian of the fowl to
keep the animals contained, and that future violations will be filed with the
Municipal Court Judge against the owner/custodian of the animals.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-31 IMPOUNDMENT OR DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer, a police officer or another officer or
employee of the city as may be authorized by the City Manager shall take into
custody and impound any animal running at large or in violation of any
provision of the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Animals taken into custody will be held for three days (not including
legal holidays or Sundays) and may be reclaimed by their owners in that time if
the proper fees and requirements have been met for city licensing. Following
the three-day period, any unclaimed animal may be held for an additional four
days if the animal is deemed adoptable. After that time has elapsed animals are
subject to euthanasia.
   (C)   No dog or cat over four months of age will be released from the
shelter without rabies vaccination and city license. If the animal does not
have city license or is not rabies vaccinated, the Animal Control Officer will
deliver the animal to the owner at a licensed veterinarian within the city
limits for rabies vaccination or by any other means or method.
   (D)   The owner must first pay all impound fees and licensing fees at the
Animal Shelter or the City Clerk’s office. A receipt will be required at time
of redemption.
   (E)   In the event a vicious dog is found running at large and cannot be
taken up and safely impounded, the dog may be forthwith destroyed by any police
officer or Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-32 DISPOSITION OF DISEASED ANIMALS.
   In the event any dog or other animal impounded under the provisions of this
article shall be found to be suffering from rabies or affected with some other
infectious or dangerous disease, the animal shall not be released in any event,
and shall be forthwith destroyed.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-33 RABIES OR SUSPECTED RABIES.
   (A)   The owner, upon demand by any city officer or Animal Control Officer
empowered to enforce this chapter, shall surrender any animal that has bitten
or with their teeth scratched a human, or which is suspected as having been
exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine testing or euthanasia, the expense
for which shall be borne by the owner. The animal may be reclaimed by the
owner, if adjudged free of rabies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog, cat or other animal
knowing or suspecting the animal has rabies to allow such to be taken off his
or her premises or beyond the limits of the city without written permission of
the Animal Control Supervisor. Every owner or other person upon ascertaining a
dog or other animal is rabid shall immediately notify the Animal Control
Officer or the Police Department who shall remove the animal and summarily
destroy it. The remains are to then be submitted to the State Health Department
for testing.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
ARTICLE 4: CARE AND MAINTENANCE
§ 3-45 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, or custodian of any animal shall fail to provide
animals in their care with sufficient food and water, proper shelter and
protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering
and with humane care and treatment.
   (B)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill treat, torment, overload, overwork
or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate or permit any dog fight,
cockfight, bullfight or combat between animals, or between animals and humans
and/or the owner may, if found guilty, be fined per §
3-120.
   (C)   No person or persons shall abandon or desert their dog or other animal
or permit the animal to become a stray.
   (D)   Any person bringing an animal or animals to the shelter for the
purpose of euthanasia or adoption shall pay a fee as set out in the fee
schedule at the end of this code of ordinances. Any person bringing un-weaned,
geriatric, diseased or injured animals to the shelter shall also sign a release
authorizing the immediate humane euthanasia of the animal or animals.
   (E)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes any
animal, shall stop at once and render assistance as may be possible or shall
immediately report injury or death to the animal owner. If the owner cannot be
ascertained and located, the operator shall at once report the accident to the
Police Department.
   (F)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed
with food or not, so that same shall be liable to be eaten by an animal, except
as provided by state law. It shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on
his or her own property common rat poison mixed only with vegetable substances.
   (G)   Every pen, enclosure, yard, or house where a dog, cat, or any animal
is permitted to be shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition free
from objectionable odors. No person shall allow an accumulation of feces, urine
or other waste material to accumulate.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-46 KENNEL OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to keep or harbor four or more dogs or
cats over the age of four months old. Exceptions to this chapter are bona fide
pet stores, veterinarian clinics, licensed humane societies and the animal
shelter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, keeper or custodian of any animals
to allow more than one litter of puppies, or kittens to be at any one
residence, at any one time.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-47 DOG RUN LOCATIONS.
   No dog runs, or any other establishment wherein animals are kept, shall be
maintained closer than 40 feet to any occupied structure other than that
occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises where the animal is kept.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-48 NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner of any animal within the city shall fail to exercise proper
care and control of the animal to prevent it from becoming a public nuisance.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, an animal shall constitute a public
nuisance if it:
      (1)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Trespasses on school grounds;
      (3)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (4)   Damages private or public property;
      (5)   Whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion or
otherwise endangers or offends the well-being of the public without cause;
      (6)   Overturns any garbage can or other vessel for waste products or
scatters the contents of same;
      (7)   Is unconfined in season (estrus).
   (C)   Any animal which is unrestrained or causing a public nuisance may be
impounded, as provided for in this section.
   (D)   The keeping, harboring or owning of any animal deemed to be a public
nuisance, as defined herein, is a misdemeanor and may be punished as provided
for in this chapter.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-49 DISTURBING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the city limits
any dog or other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise disturbs the
peace and quiet of any person or persons.
   (B)   No person shall keep any animal, which causes frequent or long
continued noise so as to disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the
vicinity.
   (C)   Any violation of this section is declared to be a nuisance and as such
may be abated.
   (D)   This section requires that a complaint be signed by the individual
whose peace is disturbed.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-50 NOISY ANIMALS; COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person with knowledge thereof may file a complaint in the
Municipal Court against the owner or keeper of an animal which disturbs the
comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity or which is in violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   If the Court finds that an animal is a nuisance or in violation of
this chapter, then the Court may order the owner or keeper to prevent and abate
the nuisance, or order the animal impounded with the owner or keeper to pay
impoundment costs, and/or fine the owner as provided in §
3-120.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-51 DUTY OF DRIVER UPON STRIKING A PET ANIMAL.
   Every operator of a self-propelled vehicle upon the ways of this state open
to the public shall immediately upon injuring or striking a pet animal give aid
to such animal or immediately notify the Animal Control Officer or police
officer, furnishing sufficient facts relative to such injury. Any person
violating this section is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a maximum fine
of $200.
(Ord. 3295, passed 9-6-16)
§ 3-52 TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to keep or
maintain the animal on a tie-out, tether, picket, or similar device consisting
of a rope, cable, or other type of tether for any duration unless continually
supervised by its owner or other adult responsible for the animal at the time.
Exemptions to this section may be granted by any City of Guthrie Animal Control
Officer.
   (B)   Any person who receives an exemption shall ensure that the animal will
not be on the tie-out, tether, picket, or similar device for any duration under
conditions which may reasonably threaten the health or well-being of the
animal. The owner of a dog or cat maintained on a tether of any type shall
properly fit the animal with a harness or collar to which the tether shall be
attached. The tether shall be of adequate length to allow reasonable exercise,
access to water, shelter, and shall not be subject to entanglement with other
objects in any manner that may cause the animal any injury or clear discomfort
or be of a weight disproportionate to the size of the animal so tethered as to
unduly burden the animal. Tethering dogs or cats using chains or prong collars
is prohibited. Tethering of an unsupervised dog or cat is prohibited when the
outside air temperature is not between 35ºF. and 85ºF.
(Ord. 3357, passed 6-15-21)
ARTICLE 5: WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 3-60 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Duty of owner or controller to dispose. It shall be the duty of each
person who owns, possesses or controls a dog to remove and dispose of any feces
left by his dog on any sidewalk, street, park, playground or other public area.
It shall further be the duty of each person who owns, possesses or controls a
dog to remove and dispose of any feces left by his dog on any private property,
neither owned nor occupied by such person.
   (B)   Duty to possess means of removal. No person who owns, possesses or
controls such dog shall appear with such dog on any sidewalk, street, park,
playground or other public area without the means of removal of any feces left
by such dog. Furthermore, no person who owns, possesses or controls such dog
shall appear on any private property, neither owned nor occupied by such
person, without the means of removal of any feces left by such dog.
   (C)   Method of removal and disposal. For the purposes of this division, the
means of removal shall be any tool, implement or other device carried for the
purpose of picking up and containing such feces, unexposed to such person or
the public. Disposal shall be accomplished by transporting such feces to a
place suitable and regularly reserved for the disposal of garbage.
   (D)   Enforcement. Violation of this section shall be enforced in accordance
with law by animal control officer, or a police officer.
   (E)   Violation; fine. Violation of this section shall be punished by a fine
of $20 for each occurrence.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
ARTICLE 6: EXOTIC AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 3-70 EXOTIC AND VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   The City Council finds that the presence of exotic animals and/or
vicious is incompatible with the urban, residential character of the community
in that the animals threaten and disturb the health, safety, comfort, security
and peace of mind of its inhabitants. To this end, it shall be the public
policy of the city that the possession or maintenance of exotic and/or vicious
animals within the municipal limits shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Except as provided in this article, no person shall own, keep or
harbor any exotic and/or vicious animal in the city. The provisions of this
article shall not apply to any keeping of the animals in, or en route to a bona
fide licensed veterinary hospital for treatment or in bona fide or medical
institutions or museums where they are kept as live exhibits for study.
   (C)   In the event of an animal that bites any person, or other animal while
in violation of
Article 3 of this chapter in an un-provoked manner, owners will be cited and
the animal will be quarantined as provided in §
3-33.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-71 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice. Upon investigation and determination that a person owns or is
keeping or harboring an exotic animal on premises within the city, the Animal
Control Officer shall serve or mail written notice to the person, requiring the
person to safely remove the animal from the city within five days of the date
of the notice.
   (B)   Threat of harm. If, during the course of seizing and impounding, the
exotic and/or vicious animal poses a risk of serious physical harm or death to
any person or animal, the Animal Control Officer is authorized to contract with
appropriate persons or agencies to render the animal immobile by means of
tranquilizers or other safe drugs. If the animal has escaped and is at large,
and immobilization is not safely possible, then the animal may be destroyed.
   (C)   Costs. The reasonable costs incurred by the city in seizing,
impounding and for confining any exotic and/or vicious animal shall be charged
against the owner, keeper or harborer of the animal. The charge shall be in
addition to, and not lieu of, the penalty provided for violation of this
article.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
ARTICLE 7: LIVESTOCK AND LARGE ANIMALS
§ 3-80 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person having control of any horse, mule, ass,
ox, cow, hog, goat, pig or any other livestock to allow same to run at large in
the corporate city limits of the city. Any animal secured by a rope or lariat,
so that the same can do injury to any shade tree or property of any person not
the owner of an animal, so that the animal can go upon any lot or grounds of
any person not the owner of the animal without the consent of the owner of the
lot or grounds, or upon any street or public grounds of this city, shall be
considered as running at large under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-81 IMPOUNDMENT AND SALE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to seize and
impound any animal found running at large, contrary to the provisions of the
next preceding section, and safely keep the same until disposed of according to
the law. If not redeemed according to the provisions of this article by the
person or persons entitled to the possession thereof within six days after the
same has been impounded, it shall be the duty, after three days of public
notice thereof to sell any animal to the highest and best bidder for cash, and
out of the proceeds pay all expenses and costs of seizing, impounding, keeping
and selling the same, and the balance of the proceeds, after paying the
expenses, shall be paid into the city treasury and make duplicate statements
thereof which shall be made in the manner provided by ordinance for any officer
receiving money for the city.
   (B)   If the Animal Control Officer shall be unable to determine the owner
or probable owner of the seized or impounded animal, the Animal Control Officer
shall give notice of sale by posting notice thereof in the City Hall and the
County Courthouse, and by publishing the same once in a newspaper of general
circulation published in the city giving the terms, time and place of sale and
description of the animal to be sold.
   (C)   At the time before the sale of the animal, the owner or person
entitled to the possession thereof, on proving his or her right thereto, and
paying all charges against the same, shall be entitled to receive the animal
and same shall be delivered to him or her and his or her receipt taken thereof.
But after the sale is made, the owner shall thereby forfeit all right, title
and interest in and to the animal, but the proceeds, after paying all expenses,
shall be paid to the owner upon his or her presenting to the Commissioner of
Public Safety written affidavit made before any officer competent to administer
oaths, sufficiently describing the animal claimed.
   (D)   The Animal Control Officer shall record in a well bound book, kept for
the purpose of this article, an accurate description of each large animal
impounded with the date of impounding, time of redemption and by whom redeemed;
time of sale and for what price, if sold; and he or she shall also, opposite
the description, keep an accurate account of the expenses incurred and properly
chargeable to each animal.
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of this article, or any person who
shall release, or cause to be released, any animal prohibited from running at
large, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
ARTICLE 8: POLICE DOGS
§ 3-90 UNLAWFUL TO HARASS OR TAUNT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously
harass, taunt, torment, tease or frighten any police dog.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously
torture, mutilate, injure, disable, poison or kill any police dog.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
ARTICLE 9: CONFLICTS
§ 3-100 ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL.
   In case of conflict between this chapter and the present or any future
zoning ordinance, the provisions of the zoning ordinance shall prevail and
supercede the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
§ 3-120 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision contained within this chapter is an
offense against the city and upon conviction of any offense, the violator shall
be punished as provided in this code of ordinances including a fine not to
exceed $500 per offense.
   (B)   Each day that a violation of this chapter, or any provision therein,
continues shall constitute a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall
be construed as determining that not more than one offense can be committed in
any one day by the same person. Repeat offenses will assess an additional fee
of $20 for each time that the offense occurs.
(Ord. 3198, passed 9-16-08)
CHAPTER 4: BUILDING, PLUMBING AND ELECTRICITY
Article 1: Building Code and Regulations
   
4-1.   International Building Code, 2018 edition, adopted
   
4-2.   Definitions
   
4-3.   Penalty
   
4-4.   Building Official
   
4-5.   Fire limits defined
   
4-6.   Wood shingles permitted
   
4-7.   Residential foundations and footings
   
4-8.   Building permit required; fee
   
4-9.   Building site; restriction
   
4-10.   Use of street for building material
   
4-11.   Required landscaping for all commercial, multi-family residential and
industrial property
Article 2: Moving Buildings
   
4-20.   Permit required; fee
   
4-21.   Unlawful movement
   
4-22.   Danger lights
   
4-23.   Penalty
Article 3: Plumbing
   
4-35.   2018 International Plumbing Code adopted
   
4-36.   Penalty
   
4-37.   Connection to utility systems
   
4-38.   Contractors and journeymen
   
4-39.   Contractors; bonds and fees
   
4-40.   Journeymen plumbers; registration
   
4-41.   Revocation of registration
   
4-42.   Registration not transferrable
   
4-43.   Employment
   
4-44.   Plumbing permits
   
4-45.   2006 International Fuel Gas Code adopted
Article 4: Gas Piping
   
4-55.   2018 International Fuel Gas Code adopted
   
4-56.   Penalty
Article 5: Liquefied Petroleum Gas
   
4-70.   Compliance required
   
4-71.   Inspection permits; fees
   
4-72.   Penalty
Article 6: Electrical Inspections
   
4-85.   Equipment defined
   
4-86.   Underwriter’s Laboratories, Inc.
   
4-87.   NFPA-70 National Electrical Code 2017 edition adopted
   
4-88.   Electrical inspector
   
4-89.   Permit fees
   
4-90.   Temporary permits
   
4-91.   Connections made after approval
   
4-92.   Inspections; approvals
   
4-93.   Supervision of wires
   
4-94.   Special rulings
   
4-95.   Authority to enter buildings
   
4-96.   State license and city registration
   
4-97.   Electrical contractor; registration fee
   
4-98.   Contractor’s bond
   
4-99.   Journeymen; registration fee
   
4-100.   Penalty
   
4-101.   When registration not required
   
4-102.   Revocation of registration
Article 7: Mobile Home Parks; Recreation Vehicle Parks
   
4-115.   Definitions
   
4-116.   License and temporary permit
   
4-117.   Fees
   
4-118.   Inspections
   
4-119.   Notices, hearings and orders
   
4-120.   Freestanding mobile homes
   
4-121.   Nonresidential mobile trailers
   
4-122.   Location, space and layout
   
4-123.   Service buildings
   
4-124.   Sewage disposal
   
4-125.   Water supply
   
4-126.   Refuse disposal
   
4-127.   Insect and rodent control
   
4-128.   Electricity; exterior lighting
   
4-129.   Piping
   
4-130.   Park areas; water; fires
   
4-131.   Alterations and additions
   
4-132.   Registration of owners and occupants
   
4-133.   Additional regulations
   
4-134.   Minimum housing regulations
   
4-135.   Mobile home subdivisions
   
4-136.   Supervision
   
4-137.   Posting of license and permit
Article 8: Mobile/Manufactured Homes
   
4-150.   Piers and footings
   
4-151.   Approved sightings and roofing materials
Article 9: Signs and Awnings
   
4-165.   Purpose
   
4-166.   Applicability
   
4-167.   Awning supports; height and width
   
4-168.   Unsafe awnings
   
4-169.   Signs over sidewalks
   
4-170.   Sign permit required
   
4-171.   Definitions
   
4-172.   Prohibited signs
   
4-173.   General use conditions for on-premises signs; business signs
   
4-174.   Temporary signs
   
4-175.   Exempted signs
   
4-176.   Violations
Article 10: Fees
   
4-180.   Fees belonging to the city
Article 11: Swimming Pools
   
4-190.   Suitable, effective barriers
   
4-191.   Family swimming pools
   
4-192.   Unlawful erections; exceptions
   
4-193.   Permit requirements
   
4-194.   Fees
   
4-195.   Retroactivity
   
4-196.   Penalty
Article 12: Historic Preservation Ordinance
   
4-210.   Title
   
4-211.   Purpose
   
4-212.   Area of applications
   
4-213.   Definitions
   
4-214.   Historic Preservation Commission established
   
4-215.   Powers and duties of Commission
   
4-216.   Landmark designation
   
4-217.   Historic District designation
   
4-218.   Ordinary maintenance or repair
   
4-219.   Work requiring review by city
   
4-220.   Certificate of appropriateness
   
4-221.   Minimum maintenance
   
4-222.   Demolition of a landmark, a resource on a landmark site or
contributing resource within Historic District
   
4-223.   Negotiations prior to demolition application hearing
   
4-224.   Certificate of economic hardship
   
4-225.   Unusual and compelling circumstances and demolition of a landmark, a
resource on a landmark site or contributing resource within a Historic District
   
4-226.   Conditions for recommending approval of a demolition permit
   
4-227.   Demolition of general resources located in Historic District
   
4-228.   Other demolition permits
   
4-229.   Treatment of site following demolition
   
4-230.   Public safety hazards and emergency securing measures
   
4-230A.   Signs
   
4-231.   Appeals
   
4-232.   Injunctive relief
   
4-233.   Violation and penalties
Article 13: Flood Damage Prevention
   
4-245.   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose and methods
   
4-246.   Definitions
   
4-247.   General provisions
   
4-248.   Administration
   
4-249.   Provisions for flood hazard reduction.
   
4-250.   Floodplain management fee schedule
   
4-251.   Penalties for noncompliance
Article 14: Oil and Gas Wells
   
4-265.   Intent and purpose
   
4-266.   Definitions
   
4-267.   Permits
   
4-268.   Application and filing fees
   
4-269.   Testing water wells
   
4-270.   Issuance or refusal or permit
   
4-271.   Permittee’s insurance and bonds
   
4-272.   Conversion from natural or artificial recovery
   
4-273.   Enhanced recovery and disposal wells
   
4-274.   Deepening and sidetracking wells
   
4-275.   Annual fee to operate
   
4-276.   Disposal of salt water
   
4-277.   Compliance
   
4-278.   Conductor casing
   
4-279.   Surface casing
   
4-280.   Notification of certain operations
   
4-281.   Plugging and abandonment
   
4-282.   Movement with heavy equipment
   
4-283.   Well location
   
4-284.   Fences
   
4-285.   Noise and other nuisances
   
4-286.   Facilities
   
4-287.   Storage tanks and separators
   
4-288.   Impoundings around tanks by diking
   
4-289.   Fire prevention
   
4-290.   Pits
   
4-291.   Motive power
   
4-292.   Derrick and rig
   
4-293.   Open hole formation testing
   
4-294.   Drilling operations; equipment
   
4-295.   Streets and alleys
   
4-296.   Flaring of gas
   
4-297.   Fracturing and acidizing
   
4-298.   Swabbing and bailing
   
4-299.   Rupture in surface casing
   
4-300.   Depositing oil products
   
4-301.   Safety precautions
   
4-302.   Forms filed with Corporation Commission
   
4-303.   Water for muds
   
4-304.   Service companies
   
4-305.   Accumulation of vapor
   
4-306.   Inspection of pressure lines
   
4-307.   Ingress and egress
   
4-308.   Order to cease operations
   
4-309.   Appeals
   
4-310.   Review of permit recommendations
   
4-311.   Conduits on streets and alleys
   
4-312.   Annual fee for conduits
   
4-313.   Applicability to existing conditions
   
4-314.   Penalties
Article 15: Equal Access to Housing
   
4-325.   Purposes; construction
   
4-326.   Acts prohibited
   
4-327.   Exemptions
   
4-328.   Fair Housing Board created; duties
   
4-329.   Procedure
   
4-330.   Notices
   
4-331.   Penalties
Article 16: Energy Code
   
4-345.   BOCA Energy Code adopted
Article 17: Mechanical Code
   
4-355.   2018 International Mechanical Code adopted
   
4-356.   Penalty
Article 18: Water Well Drilling
   
4-370.   License required
   
4-371.   Bond required
   
4-372.   Permit and inspection
   
4-373.   Regulations
   
4-374.   Connection to public water supply
   
4-375.   Inspection of water wells
   
4-376.   Penalty
Article 19: Approaches and Driveways
   
4-390.   Specifications
Article 20: Erosions and Sedimentation Control
   
4-400.   Intent and purpose
   
4-401.   Permits and fees
   
4-402.   Exemptions
   
4-403.   Permit application
   
4-404.   Temporary structures
   
4-405.   Permanent structures
   
4-406.   Vegetative practice
   
4-407.   Penalty
Article 21: International One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code
   
4-420.   International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings 2018
edition adopted
   
4-421.   Penalty
Article 22: Reserved
Article 23: International Property Maintenance Code
   
4-425.   International Property Maintenance for Existing Residential and
Nonresidential Structures and All Existing Premises adopted
   
4-426.   Saving clause
ARTICLE 1: BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 4-1 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE, 2018 EDITION, ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted a certain document marked and designated as
the International Building Code, as published by the International Code
Council, 2018 edition, for regulating the design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of all buildings, in the city and
providing that all of the regulations, provisions, appendices, standards,
indexes, modifications, conditions and terms of such International Building
Code, 2018 edition, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as
if fully set out in this section.
   (B)   The following sections of said International Building Code, 2018
edition, are hereby revised accordingly:
      (1)   Section 101.1, Insert: “City of Guthrie.”
      (2)   Section 1612.3, Insert: “Flood Ordinance #3214 for the City of
Guthrie, adopted September 21, 2010.”
      (3)   All amendments and modifications to the IBC, 2018 Edition, as
drafted by the State of Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission are adopted
as an addendum and made part of this section.
(`90 Code, § 4-1) (Am. Ord. 3059, passed 4-18-00; Am. Ord. 3143, passed 11-16-
04; Am. Ord. 3189, passed 2-5-08; Am. Ord. 3234, passed 8-21-12; Am. Ord. 3297,
passed 9-6-16; Am. Ord. 3381, passed 2-7- 23)
§ 4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney of Guthrie.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Guthrie, Oklahoma.
(`90 Code, § 4-2)
§ 4-3 PENALTY.
   Penalty for any provision of the Building Code shall be punished as provided
in §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 4-3) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
§ 4-4 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Building Official of the city shall be appointed by the City
Manager and shall have the powers and duties prescribed for the Building
Official by the Building Code. His or her powers and duties may be exercised by
his or her authorized representatives under his or her supervision and control.
   (B)   The term “Building Inspector,” whenever used in the ordinances of the
city, means the Building Official.
   (C)   The terms “Electrical Inspector,” “Plumbing Inspector” and “Gas
Inspector,” wherever used in the ordinances of the city, also each refer to and
mean the Building Official, unless a separate electrical inspector, plumbing
inspector and/or gas inspector is appointed.
(`90 Code, § 4-4)
§ 4-5 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The fire limits of the city shall include all areas zoned as commercial
districts (C-1, C-2 and other commercial districts) and industrial districts,
(I-1, I-2 and other industrial districts).
(`90 Code, § 4-5)
§ 4-6 WOOD SHINGLES PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding the Building Code, wood shingles may be used outside of the
fire limits for roofing on dwellings and on buildings accessory to dwellings,
such as private garages, barns and the like.
(`90 Code, § 4-6) (Ord. 2921, passed - -)
§ 4-7 RESIDENTIAL FOUNDATIONS AND FOOTINGS.
   All exterior walls shall have footings of the following minimum standards:
   (A)   Minimum depth of concrete footings on veneer exterior 18 inches and 16
inches wide.
   (B)   Minimum depth on concrete footings on frame exterior walls 12 inches
by 16 inches wide.
   (C)   All footings shall be 2,500 psi, minimum compressive strength concrete
and reinforced with two No. 4 bars, one at top and one at bottom. The bottom
bar shall be at least four inches off bottom of dug footing.
   (D)   All footing shall be poured in a minimum of six inches into
undisturbed soil. Ten-inch diameter beams shall be eight feet on center eight
inches into undisturbed soil acceptable.
   (E)   Where pier and grade beam type of foundation is proposed for
residential construction, design of grade beam and piers shall be:
      (1)   Piers.
         (a)   Minimum diameter: ten inches.
         (b)   Minimum depth: 30 inches, extending eight inches into
undisturbed soil.
      (2)   Grade beam width.
         (a)   Six inches for frame construction.
         (b)   Eight inches for masonry brick or rock veneer.
      (3)   Minimum effective depth.
         (a)   Eight inches for slab construction.
         (b)   Sixteen-inch supports for wood floors providing this clearance
under joists.
         (c)   Reinforced with two No. 4 bars spaced equally one at top and one
at bottom for frame construction.
         (d)   For masonry, veneer, brick, rock and the like, construction
reinforced with four No. 4 bars, spaced equally, two at top and two at bottom.
      (4)   Commercial foundations.
         (a)   The design of foundations for masonry construction other than
residential shall be prepared and certified by a professional engineer
registered in the state and approved by the city.
         (b)   Metal structures as per manufacturers design.
      (5)   Concrete slab floors. All concrete slab floors shall meet the
following minimum standards:
         (a)   All concrete slabs on grade shall be nominal four inches thick
on four-inch sand base.
         (b)   All concrete shall be minimum 3,000 psi compressive strength.
         (c)   All concrete floors shall be a minimum of eight inches above
finished grade.
(`90 Code, § 4-6.1) (Ord. 2786, passed 11-5-85)
§ 4-8 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct,
alter, move or demolish a building or structure, or to begin to do the same,
without securing from the Building Official a permit therefor.
   (B)   The fee for a building permit shall be determined by the City Council
by motion or resolution.
   (C)   The permit fee rate will double if any person, firm or corporation
begins to construct, alter, move or demolish a building or structure without
securing a permit on the same from the Building Official.
(`90 Code, § 4-7) (Am. Ord. 3119, passed 9-5-03)
§ 4-9 BUILDING SITE; RESTRICTION.
   (A)   A “building site” is the area occupied by a building or structure,
including the yards and courts required for light and ventilation, and the
areas that are prescribed for access to the street.
   (B)   An “open street” is a street:
      (1)   Open by act of the City Council pursuant to law; and
      (2)   For which the grade has been set by act of the City Council
pursuant to law.
   (C)   A “corner lot” is a lot which faces two adjacent sides abutting upon
streets or other public spaces.
   (D)   An “interior lot” is a lot which faces one street or with opposite
sides on two streets.
   (E)   No building site, as defined by this article, shall hereinafter be
located on any lot other than a corner lot or interior lot with one side upon
an open street as defined by this article, nor shall a building permit be
issued therefor.
(`90 Code, § 4-7.1) (Ord. 2550, passed - -)
§ 4-10 USE OF STREET FOR BUILDING MATERIALS.
   It shall be lawful for the City Council to grant a special permit to any
person or persons desiring to erect or repair any building within the corporate
limits of the city to use not exceeding one-half of the street immediately in
front of the lot or lots upon which the building is to be erected or repaired
for a reasonable time for the purpose of depositing building material thereon.
(`90 Code, § 4-8)
§ 4-11 REQUIRED LANDSCAPING FOR ALL COMMERCIAL, MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Purpose, objectives and procedure.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   The purpose of this section is to establish a uniform procedure
for the review of plans for the development of commercial, multi-family
residential and industrial property located within the city limits. This
procedure includes a comprehensive review by the Planning Department to assure
that city codes and standards will be met and the objectives of this section
are specifically addressed.
         (b)   This section is a required part of the building permit
application process. It is hereby found that the establishment of this
procedure will work toward assuring development which complies with the
objectives of this section and enhances area architectural and environmental
elements in furtherance of the best interest of this community. Furthermore,
developers are encouraged to design developments which harmonize with the
existing terrain, rather than changing the site to fit a specific design.
      (2)   Objectives. The Site Plan Review process shall reach a
determination that the following objectives have been met:
         (a)   Proposed projects shall respect the natural, wooded environment
to preserve, protect and incorporate this natural environment into the overall
Site Plan design;
         (b)   The Site Plan shall be examined to assure that all provisions of
this section and all other applicable city standards are complied with or where
a greater standard is required, those standards shall prevail;
         (c)   Ingress, egress, internal traffic circulation, off-street
parking facilities, loading and service areas and pedestrian ways shall be
designed to promote safe, efficient vehicular circulation, pedestrian movement,
parking and site serviceability; and
         (d)   When commercial, multi-family residential or industrial uses are
proposed next to existing less intensive uses, the Site Plan Review process
shall emphasize quality project design, aesthetics and landscaping designed to
minimize the impact of the project on the established area and/or establish
transitional areas to meet the objectives of the Site Plan Review Standards.
      (3)   Procedure.  
         (a)   The review procedure for each Site Plan application shall begin
with a comprehensive review by the Planning Department.
         (b)   Staff shall review the plans to determine code compliance and
compliance with the objectives. All plans shall be corrected to comply with all
minimum codes and adopted policies. Staff shall determine if codes have been
met and how the objectives have been addressed.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   For all new commercial, multi-family residential and industrial
property within the city limits, and remodeled commercial, multi-family
residential and industrial property where improvements of at least a 20%
increase in square footage are added.
      (2)   Zoning districts affected are C-1, C-2, C-3, CBD, R-2, R-4, R-5, R-
6, I-1, I-2. R-2 exception: single family dwellings and garage apartments.
   (C)   Submittal requirements. The Site Plan shall comply with this section
and applicable sections of this code, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Disclosure of the boundaries of the property and building site and
location of all utilities and easements of record;
      (2)   Placement of site in context to neighboring properties and
description of their use;
      (3)   Drawings will include directional arrow and be drawn to scale no
less than 1:30; and
      (4)   Detailed landscape plan to include type, size and quantity of plant
material, hard goods and street lighting.
   (D)   Review criteria. In considering applications before it, the Planning
Department shall be guided by the following criteria, and these elements shall
be described on the Site Plan.
      (1)   Purpose. The Site Plan shall be reviewed to assure that all
proposals present a landscaped appearance that is site sensitive and enhances
and preserves the existing vegetation, and is in harmony with surrounding
development and the natural environment. The landscape plan, material, berms,
fences and walls should be utilized to:
         (a)   Preserve and utilize the existing natural features, existing
vegetation and other physical site values where possible;
         (b)   Provide screening/buffering or undesirable views;
         (c)   Soften the visual impact of paved areas;
         (d)   Soften the edge between a parking lot or street and the
building;
         (e)   Define walkways, traffic circulation, special use areas and
building entries;
         (f)   Complement the architectural form of the building;
         (g)   Mitigate the impacts of lighting or other negative influences;
         (h)   Provide a pleasant driving experience;
         (i)   Provide shade for the landscape, building and parking lot;
         (j)   Provide for energy conservation;
         (k)   Control wind and water erosion;
         (l)   Mitigate the impacts of traffic noise, dust and pollutants; and
         (m)   Storm water management.
      (2)   Percent of landscaping required to meet the objectives of Site Plan
Review.
         (a)   No less than 10% of the net lot area shall be landscaped unless
greater landscaping standards apply based on the requirement of another zoning
category, or the incentive standards have been met for reduction of the 10%
landscaping. Fifty percent of the total landscaping shall be along the
frontage. Right-of-way is not to be included. For industrial projects with no
sensitive borders or frontage on major arterial roadways, the minimum
landscaping could be reduced to 5% at the discretion of the City Manager or his
designee. These are requirements of the Site Plan process, including the
Planning Commission process.
         (b)   An eight-foot sight-proof fence is required between residential
and commercial or industrial properties.
      (3)   Landscaping standards. All applicable uses within the city limits
shall be landscaped with trees and ornamental shrubs according to the following
standards.
      (4)   Application for Site Plan approval shall be accompanied by a
detailed landscaping plan for the required lot area. The plan shall meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   Submit a detailed plan listing that identifies the types of
plant material proposed and existing vegetation to be preserved.
         (b)   Include on the Site Plan a summary of the landscape area
calculations and total plan unit values proposed.
         (c)   There shall be a minimum of 20 live plant units provided for
every 250 square feet of area required to be landscaped. A minimum of 40% shall
be evergreens. Fifty percent of required plantings should be located on the
front elevation.
         (d)   Existing trees proposed for preservation in the Site Plan will
require city review to determine the variety, size, quality, and potential
survivability in order to confirm the plant unit values requested.
         (e)   Ornamental trees shall be at least two-inch caliper.
         (f)   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of six feet tall.
         (g)   Traffic control requires that the plan respect all sight
triangles at driveways and intersections and be approved for all elements
relating to overall traffic control.
         (h)   All planting beds shall be a minimum width of five feet.
         (i)   All planting beds shall include edgings. Acceptable edging
material shall consist of either steel or masonry types such as poured
concrete, brick rowlock and/or stone. Unacceptable edging materials are
plastic, aluminum, treated lumber, and railroad ties.
         (j)   All planting beds shall have a minimum of three inches of
biodegradable mulch. The use of gravel, artificial grass or any form of
synthetic material does not meet any requirement of this section and shall not
be used. Individual tree planting locations shall be mulched with a three-foot
diameter minimum.
         (k)   If a lake exists on the property, the surface area of the lake
shall not be included in calculating the overall area of the site when making a
determination of the required area of the site to be landscaped.
      (5)   Landscaping definitions. For the purpose of this article, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         BERM. An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen
undesirable views and/or decrease noise.
         CALIPER. The diameter of the tree trunk as measured at one foot above
ground level.
         DECIDUOUS. A plant with foliage that is shed annually.
         EDGING. A border designed to be a barrier against grass and creeping
weeds and continuous in design.
         EVERGREEN. A plant with foliage that persists and remains green year-
around.
         EXISTING TREE. A tree that exists on the property prior to development
that will be preserved, and whose root system will not be disturbed in any way
within the area covered by the tree’s canopy.
         HARD GOODS. Non-living items used for landscaping projects, i.e.
topsoil, mulch, boulders, etc.
         NET LOT AREA. The total site area less: structure(s), required parking
as defined in Zoning Ordinance 2422, and the right-of-way.
         ORNAMENTAL TREE. A deciduous tree planted primarily for its ornamental
value or for screening purposes. An ornamental tree tends to be smaller than a
shade tree.
         PHYSICAL SPACE. The existence of natural physical features such as
flood plains, creeks, ponds and open lands that may accomplish the separation
of unlike land uses. These may be used in combination with the screen.
         PLANT UNIT. A measurement tool that translates the amount of required
plant material into a quantifiable but flexible unit.
            1.   One (new) ground cover and perennial plant, minimum one gallon
equals one-half plant unit. No more than 10% of all landscaping materials
required by the standards in this code shall be credited for this type of
planting.
            2.   One (new) shrub, minimum two-gallon container stock or larger
equals one plant unit.
            3.   One (new) shrub, minimum five-gallon container stock or larger
equals two plant units.
            4.   One (new) ornamental tree, two-inch caliper equals five plant
units.
            5.   One (new) evergreen tree, minimum six feet tall equals four
plant units.
            6.   One (new) evergreen tree, minimum 12 feet tall equals eight
plant units.
            7.   One (new) shade tree, three-inch caliper equals 7-1/2 plant
units.
            8.   One (existing) tree, four-inch/six-inch caliper equals 7-1/
2 plant units.
            9.   One (new) shade tree, five-inch caliper equals ten plant
units.
            10.   One (existing) tree, six-inch/eight-inch caliper equals 15
plant units.
            11.   One (existing) evergreen tree, minimum ten feet in height
equals 18 plant units.
            12.   One (new or existing) specimen tree, eight-inch caliper, if
newly planted equals 20 plant units.
            13.   One (existing) specimen tree, ten-inch caliper or greater
equals 22-1/2 plant units.
            14.   One (existing) specimen tree, 12-inch caliper or greater
equals 25 plant units.
         REQUIRED PARKING. Land devoted to parking as defined in Zoning
Ordinance 2422.
         SCREEN. A method of reducing the impact of noise and unsightly visual
intrusions with less offensive or more harmonious elements, such as plants,
berms, fences, walls or any appropriate combination thereof.
         SIGHT PROOF FENCE. An opaque visual barrier containing wood, masonry,
PVC, or live plant material; or a combination of the above and berms.
         SHADE TREE. Usually a deciduous tree, rarely an evergreen, planted
primarily for its high crown of foliage or overhead canopy.
         SHRUB. A woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small
stems from the ground, or small branches near the ground, that may be deciduous
or evergreen.
         SPECIMEN TREE. A particularly impressive or unusual example of a
species due to its size, shape, age or any other trait that epitomizes the
character of the six species. Minimum eight inch caliper or larger.
         TREE. A large, woody plant having one or several self-supporting stems
or trunks and numerous branches. May be classified as deciduous or evergreen.
      (6)   Landscaping structures. A minimum of a five-foot wide planting bed
between the structure and the parking lot must be provided in all areas that
are visible from the street.
      (7)   Landscaping parking lots. When the required off-street parking lot
is established at the front or side elevation, there shall be an improved
landscaped area along the entire perimeter of the parking lot of not less than
five feet in width. In addition to the required privacy fencing, this area
shall be improved with live shrubs, plants, grasses, trees and berms for the
purpose of screening the parking lot from view from the traffic lanes and all
surrounding properties and residential areas. Existing plant material may be
preserved and utilized to contribute to the required screening of the off-
street parking lot where possible. Off-street parking lots are encouraged at
the rear elevation, especially when vehicular access is possible between
adjacent structures.
      (8)   Sensitive borders. When a site directly abuts residentially
developed or zoned land on any side, to minimize the impact of commercial
development on the residential area, a landscaped buffer area against the
residentially developed or zoned land shall be required.
   (E)   Permit review process.
      (1)   Review and approval authority. It is recognized that due to the
unique conditions presented by some proposed projects and the nature of a
site’s special limitations, particularly in the built environment, there may be
applications that will present some special conflicts complying with all parts
of this section. In those cases where there are justifications, the Planning
Department may recommend review by the Planning Commission for requested
modifications or variances to this section. Variances to parts of this section
may be considered if the applicant is able to exceed requirements in other
parts of this section, especially in the areas of landscaping, signage,
decorative paving and physical appearance of the building. Consideration may
also be given for special improvements or solutions to community concerns, such
as drainage or traffic circulation problems.
      (2)   Criteria for reducing landscaping to less than 10% of the site. The
percent of landscaped area required by this section may be reduced for each of
the following conditions that are met or exceeded. The percent of landscaped
area required may not be reduced by more than three full percentage points. The
amount of percentage points specified for each of the following conditions
shall apply.
         (a)   Thirty-five percent of the required plant units consist of
existing trees proposed for preservation. These trees will require city staff
review and approval to determine the variety, size, quality, potential for
long-term survival and plant unit value. Any trees that will have their root
systems disturbed in any way within the area covered by their canopy will not
be considered. A maximum of 1-1/2 percentage points will be allowed.
         (b)   If the height of signs is decreased by 50%, the percent of
landscaped area required by ordinance may be reduced by 1%. If the height of
the sign is reduced by 25%, the percent of landscaped area required by
ordinance may be reduced by one-half percent.
         (c)   If landscaped areas directly adjoin existing landscaped areas on
adjoining properties, a maximum of one-half percentage point will be allowed.
         (d)   If drives are located to be shared by adjoining properties, a
maximum of one percentage point will be allowed.
         (e)   If shared or regional detention facilities are developed that
will serve two or more properties, a maximum of one-half percentage will be
allowed.
         (f)   If the Site Plan preserves in an undisturbed state significant
natural features, the original natural topography and existing native
vegetation, a maximum of one-half percentage point will be allowed.
         (g)   If the signs allowed are set back from the front property line a
distance of one foot for every one foot of height, a maximum of one-half
percentage point will be allowed.
         (h)   If adjoining properties share a ground sign which does not
exceed the square footage allowed by either property, a maximum of one
percentage point will be allowed.
         (i)   If the Site Plan incorporates features that aid in noise
abatement, a maximum of one percentage point will be allowed. These features
may include a combination a berms, masonry walls and wooden fences, and must be
used in conjunction with landscaping to assist in absorbing noise.
         (j)   If all planting beds and lawns have an automatic irrigation
system, a maximum of 1% will be allowed.
      (3)   Submitted for building permit. The approved Site Plan, requirements
and modifications approved by the Planning Commission shall be submitted to the
Planning Department with the application for a building permit. No building
permit may be issued prior to the approval of the Site Plan.
      (4)   Compliance with codes and standards. Approval of the Site Plan as
provided herein does not exempt the applicant from compliance with other
applicable building or construction standards or codes in effect.
      (5)   Expiration of Site Plan. Approval of any Site Plan and associated
signage as required herein shall expire and become null and void 18 months from
the date of such approval, including all time required for legal proceedings;
if any, providing that a building permit has not been issued, and unless the
Planning Commission, for good cause shown, has specified a different expiration
date.
Requests for extension shall include:
         (a)   A letter of formal request for extension;
         (b)   A public hearing with the Planning Commission to review the
extension request;
         (c)   The application review for extension shall determine the
compliance with current Site Plan review standards;
         (d)   PUD Designations and Special Use Permits; and
         (e)   If the project is zoned with a PUD designation, no building
permit shall be issued until all provisions of the PUD procedure have been
followed, and nothing herein shall be deemed to abolish existing requirements
or procedures for the obtaining of Special Use Permits in any zoning district.
The standards of this section shall be minimum standards of any Planned Unit
Development.
   (F)    Installation, irrigation and maintenance.
      (1)   Wherever landscape plantings or a landscape-planting screen are
required, such landscape plantings shall be installed in a sound, workmanlike
manner and according to accepted good planting procedures.
      (2)   All landscaped areas shall be provided with a readily available and
acceptable water supply. Underground, automatic sprinkler systems are
preferred. Otherwise, a minimum of one supply outlet per island is required.
These outlets must be located within 100 feet of all planted material to be
maintained.
      (3)   It shall be the continuing duty of the property owner, his
successors, or anyone having beneficial use of the property, to maintain any
such designated landscaping in a live and healthy condition by keeping lawns
mowed, all plants properly groomed and maintained as disease-free, and planting
beds groomed, except in naturally occurring dense growths of shrubs or
undergrowth. Any required planting(s), which have been removed, are diseased or
no longer living, shall be replaced in kind as soon as natural conditions
allow. Tree stakes, guy wires and tree wraps are to be removed after one
growing season.
      (4)   Enforcement and appeal. When it is determined that improvements
required by this section are not being met, it shall be the duty of the Code
Enforcement Department to give notice in writing to the property owner. Such
notice shall specify in what manner the improvements are in need of maintenance
and a date for compliance. Any person who is aggrieved by the administration of
these regulations may file an appeal with the City Manager or City Planner
within the 30-day period.
      (5)   Failure to comply. Failure to provide the improvements required by
these regulations or failure to maintain improvements in the manner prescribed
by these regulations shall constitute an offense and violation of this chapter.
The notice of violation served by the city shall include a time period in which
violation should be cured. If, after expiration of the time period the
violation has not been cured, each subsequent day may be counted as a new and
separate violation. Upon conviction, the person who has violated the
landscaping requirements may be subject to a fine of up to $200 per day, plus
court costs.
(Ord. 3164, passed 9-6-05)
ARTICLE 2: MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 4-20 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership or
individual to move or cause to be moved on the streets or alleys of the city,
any house or building, or part thereof, or any similar structure, without
having first obtained from the City Clerk, a permit therefor.
   (B)   The applicant for a permit shall pay the City Clerk for each permit
and also, the applicant for a permit shall deposit with the City Clerk a good
and sufficient surety or personal bond with sufficient sureties, to be approved
by the City Clerk, providing for the payment of all damages that may be
sustained by the city, or any public utility, or individual, by virtue of the
moving operations by virtue of the permit.
(`90 Code, § 4-9)
§ 4-21 UNLAWFUL MOVEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership or
individual to move or cause to be moved any house or building, or part thereof,
or any similar structure, on the streets or alleys of the city, without having
first obtained the permit, paid the permit fee and deposited the bond with the
City Clerk.
(`90 Code, § 4-10)
§ 4-22 DANGER LIGHTS.
   Any person moving a building along a street or alley of the city shall place
and maintain about the building at night proper and sufficient danger lights to
warn other persons using the streets and alleys.
(`90 Code, § 4-11)
§ 4-23 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of any provision in this article shall be in
accordance with §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 4-11.1) (Ord. 2863, passed 4-18-89)
ARTICLE 3: PLUMBING
§ 4-35 2018 INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted as the plumbing code of the city, the 2018
International Plumbing Code as published by the International Code Council for
the control of buildings and structures as herein provided, and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the said
International Plumbing Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this section with all indexes, additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below, a
copy of which Plumbing Code (hereinafter collectively referred to as the
“Guthrie Plumbing Code” or “Plumbing Code”) is on file in the Office of City
Clerk of the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma.
   (B)   The following sections of the International Plumbing Code are hereby
revised as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1, Insert: “City of Guthrie”.
      (2)   Section 106.6.2, Insert: “As per Master Fee Schedule.”
      (3)   Section 106.6.3, Delete entire section.
      (4)   Section 108.4, Insert: “Misdemeanor, $500.”
      (5)   Section 108.5 Insert: “Not less than $100, not more than $500.”
      (6)   Section 305.6.1, Insert: “Twelve inches (12"), and Twelve inches
(12").”
      (7)   Section 904.1, Insert: “Twelve inches (12").”
      (8)   All amendments and modifications to the IPC 2018 edition, as
drafted by the State of Oklahoma’s Uniform Building Code Commission, are
adopted as an addendum and made part of this section.
(`90 Code, § 4-12) (Am. Ord. 2984, passed 4-15-94; Am. Ord. 3060, passed 4-18-
00; Am. Ord. 3146, passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 3191, passed 2-5-08; Am. Ord.
3237, passed 8-21-12; Am. Ord. 3300, passed 9-6-16; Am. Ord. 3383, passed 2-7-
23)
§ 4-36 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of any provision in this article shall be in
accordance with §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 4-13) (Ord. 2863, passed 4-18-89)
§ 4-37 CONNECTION TO UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   It shall be the private property owners’ duty to maintain private
sewer lines and house connections. If any owner shall fail to properly maintain
a private sewer line or any house sewer service line or any other private sewer
line the city or Public Works Authority may shut off the supply of water to
those premises in violation of this division and/or may proceed with municipal
court charges and impose a fine of up to $200 per day plus court cost.
   (B)   The water distribution and drainage system of any building in which
plumbing fixtures are installed shall be connected to a public water main and
sewer respectively, if available, and the use of a private water supply for
purposes other than irrigation or landscaping shall be prohibited. Where a
public water main is not available, an individual water supply shall be
required and shall be provided by the property owner. Where a public sewer is
not available, a private sewage disposal system shall be required and shall be
provided by the property owner conforming to the private sewage disposal code
listed in Appendix A of the BOCA Plumbing Code. Any building equipped with
plumbing fixtures connected to a private well on the effective date of this
article does not have to be connected to a public water main, until the time
connection to the private well in use on the effective date of this article is
discontinued. A public water main or public sewer system shall be considered
available to a building when the lot line is located with 300 feet of the
public water main or sewer.
   (C)   Violation of division (B) of this section shall be an offense
punishable in municipal court by a fine of up to $200 per day plus court costs.
(`90 Code, § 4-14) (Ord. 2890, passed 6-29-89; Am. Ord. 2892, passed 8-1-89;
Am. Ord. 3169, passed 12-20-05; Am. Ord. 3220, passed 6-7-11)
§ 4-38 CONTRACTORS AND JOURNEYMEN.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in business as a plumbing
contractor, nor shall any person work as a journeyman plumber, until the
person, firm or corporation has become properly registered with the city, and
has furnished the city satisfactory evidence of compliance with the laws of the
state, and satisfactory evidence of responsibility and skill as provided by the
ordinances of the city.
(`90 Code, § 4-15)
§ 4-39 CONTRACTORS; BONDS AND FEES.
   (A)   Each and every person, firm or corporation desiring to do business as
a plumbing contractor shall be required to register in the Office of the City
Clerk, shall furnish proof of compliance with state law, and shall furnish a
bond to the city, to be approved by the City Clerk, conditioned that the
principal will restore with the same material and in the same manner as before,
all streets alleys, sidewalks, curbs and gutters in any way disturbed by the
principal, and will save the city harmless from any and all damages resulting
from any act or omission of the principal, and also that the principal will
obey all laws and ordinances of the city relating to plumbers and plumbing
work.
   (B)   (1)   Upon compliance with the foregoing requirements, and payment of
the fee hereinafter specified, the applicant shall be registered by the City
Clerk. The registration shall expire at the end of the fiscal year, and may be
renewed from year to year. The initial registration fee and the annual renewal
fee shall be as set out in the fee schedule at the end of this code of
ordinances.
      (2)   Plumbing contractors desiring to renew their registration shall
furnish the same evidence of compliance with state licensing laws, and the same
bond, as required upon initial registration.
      (3)   In the case of plumbing contractors holding licenses in good
standing and previously issued by the city under prior provisions of law,
registration shall be deemed a renewal, and not an initial registration.
   (C)   No registration shall be renewed after the expiration of 90 days from
the end of the fiscal year. After July 15 each year, no plumbing contractor
whose registration has not been renewed, unless written permission is obtained
from the Plumbing Inspector and approved by the City Manager.
(`90 Code, § 4-16)
§ 4-40 JOURNEYMAN PLUMBERS; REGISTRATION.
   Journeyman plumbers working within the city or on premises connected or to
be connected with the city sewer or water system shall be required to be
registered with the City Clerk.
(`90 Code, § 4-17)
§ 4-41 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   For good and sufficient cause, the Plumbing Inspector may revoke the
registration of any journeyman plumber, and thereafter he or she shall not be
permitted to do business or work as a journeyman plumber within the city or on
premises connected or to be connected with the city water or sewer system. In
the event of the revocation, the holder of the registration may appeal to the
City Council and the action of the City Council thereon shall be final.
(`90 Code, § 4-18)
§ 4-42 REGISTRATION NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   No registration issued to a journeyman plumber shall ever be transferred,
assigned or loaned to any other person.
(`90 Code, § 4-19)
§ 4-43 EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any journeyman plumber to do plumbing work
within the corporate limits of the city, unless the work is done by employment
of the journeyman plumber by a plumbing contractor or master plumber.
   (B)   All plumbing work done within the corporate limits of the city, from
and after the effective date of this article, shall be done under contract or
agreement with a plumbing contractor.
   (C)   Should any journeyman plumber perform plumbing work within the
corporate limits of the city, except under employment by a plumbing contractor,
such shall be deemed an offense and a violation of this article.
(`90 Code, § 4-20)
§ 4-44 PLUMBING PERMITS.
   No plumbing work shall be undertaken within the city until a plumbing permit
has been obtained from the Community Planning and Development Office. The fees
shall be determined by the City Council by motion or resolution. All fees for
plumbing permits shall be paid to the City Clerk’s Office.
(`90 Code, § 4-21) (Ord. 2650, passed - -)
§ 4-45 2006 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted a certain document marked and designated as
the International Fuel Gas Code, 2006 edition, as published by the
International Code Council for regulating and governing fuel gas systems and
gas fired appliances in the city are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this section with the additions,
appendices, indexes, standards, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The following sections of said International Fuel Gas Code are hereby
revised accordingly:
      (1)   Section 101.1, Insert: “City of Guthrie.”
      (2)   Section 106.5.2, Insert: “Master Fee Schedule.”
      (3)   Section 106.5.3, Delete: All.
      (4)   Section 108.4, Line 6, Insert: “Offense.”
      (5)   Section 108.4, Line 7, Insert: “$200.”
      (6)   Section 108.4, Line 7, Delete: “or by imprisonment.”
      (7)   Section 108.4, Line 8, Delete: “not exceeding, or both such fine
and imprisonment.”
(Ord. 3147, passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 3192, passed 2-5-08)
ARTICLE 4: GAS PIPING
§ 4-55 2018 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted as the Fuel Gas Code of the City of Guthrie,
Oklahoma, the 2018 International Fuel Gas Code as published by the
International Code Council for the control of buildings and structures as
herein provided, and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the International Fuel Gas Code are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section with all
indexes, additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in
division (B) below, a copy of which Fuel Gas Code (hereinafter collectively
referred to as the “Guthrie Fuel Gas Code” is on file in the Office of City
Clerk of the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma.
   (B)   The following sections of the International Plumbing Code are hereby
revised as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1, Insert: “City of Guthrie.”
      (2)   Section 106.6.2, Insert: “As per Master Fee Schedule.”
      (3)   Section 106.6.3, Delete entire section.
      (4)   Section 108.4, Insert: “Misdemeanor, $500.” Delete “not exceeding
number of days”.
      (5)   All amendments and modifications to the IFGC 2018 edition, as
drafted by the State of Oklahoma’s Uniform Building Code Commission, are
adopted as an addendum and made part of this section.
(`90 Code, § 4-22) (Am. Ord. 3236, passed 8-21-12; Am. Ord. 3298, passed 9-6-
16; Am. Ord. 3386, passed 2-7-23)
§ 4-56 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, individual or trust erecting,
constructing, building, maintaining or operating a sewage treatment plant or
sewage disposal system, or a sewage treatment lagoon (within the corporate
limits of the city) that discharges sewage or sewage effluent into any stream
of water from which the city obtains water for the public water system of the
city, shall be deemed guilty of an offense. Each day of erecting, constructing,
building, maintaining or operating or discharging, shall be deemed a distinct
and separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 4-23.1) (Ord. 2863, passed 4-18-89; Am. Ord. 3292, passed 8-2-16)
ARTICLE 5: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS
§ 4-70 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
fabricate, assemble, install or repair any system, container, apparatus or
appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing or utilization
of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle or store the gas, unless
the person has complied with and complies with all provisions of the law and
ordinances relating thereto, and has any license or permit which may be
required by state law. The standards for the storage and handling of liquefied
petroleum gases adopted by the National Fire Protection Association and
published in Pamphlet No. 58, including current and subsequent editions and any
subsequent changes and/or additions to the pamphlet; the standards for the
installation of gas appliances and gas piping adopted by the National Fire
Protection Association and published in Pamphlet No. 54, including the current
and any subsequent editions and any subsequent changes and/or additions to the
pamphlet; and any additional rules or regulations promulgated by the State
Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board pursuant to 52 O.S. §§ 420.1 et seq. shall have
full force and effect within this city. Any violation of these rules and
regulations shall be deemed a violation of the ordinances of the city and shall
be punished accordingly.
(`90 Code, § 4-24)
Cross-reference:
   Oil and gas wells, see §§
4-265 et seq.
§ 4-71 INSPECTION PERMITS; FEES.
   All liquefied petroleum installations within the city, upon completion,
shall be inspected by the Plumbing Inspector or by the Gas Inspector, if the
Gas Inspector is appointed, and shall not be used by the occupants until
approved by the inspector as complying with the section above and the rules and
regulations adopted thereby. Permits and fees for liquefied petroleum gas
installations shall be governed by §
4-44.
(`90 Code, § 4-25)
§ 4-72 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of any provisions in this article shall be in
accordance with §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 4-25.1) (Ord. 2863, passed 4-18-89)
ARTICLE 6: ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS
§ 4-85 EQUIPMENT DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. Electrical conductors, metallic raceway fittings,
devices, fixtures, appliances, apparatus and any electrical material of any
nature, kind or description to be installed within or on any building or
structure.
(`90 Code, § 4-26)
§ 4-86 UNDERWRITER’S LABORATORIES, INC.
   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this article, the statutes of the state and any orders, rules and
regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved electrical standards
for safety to persons or to property. Unless by this article, by a statute of
the state, or any orders, rules or regulations issued by authority thereof, a
specific type or class of electrical equipment is disapproved for installation
and use, conformity with the standards of Underwriter’s Laboratories, Inc.,
shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety
to persons or to property.
(`90 Code, § 4-27)
§ 4-87 NFPA-70 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE 2017 EDITION ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted as the Electrical Code of the City of Guthrie,
Oklahoma, the NFPA-70, National Electrical Code 2017 Edition, as published by
The National Fire Protection Association, for the control of buildings and
structures as herein provided, and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
appendices, indexes, standards, penalties, conditions and terms of the National
Electrical Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this section (hereinafter referred to as the “Guthrie
Electrical Code” or “Electric Code”) is on file in the Office of City Clerk of
the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma.
(`90 Code, § 4-28) (Am. Ord. 3062, passed 4-18-00; Am. Ord. 3145, passed 11-16-
04; Am. Ord. 3194, passed 2-5-08; Am. Ord. 3238, passed 8-21-12; Am. Ord. 3280,
passed 2-2-16; Am. Ord. 3296, passed 9-6-16; Am. Ord. 3385, passed 2-7-23)
§ 4-88 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   It is necessary to create the Office of Electrical Inspector to regulate the
installation of all electrical wiring and apparatus within the city and it
shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to inspect all electrical wiring
and apparatus as provided in this article, and the City Manager is hereby
vested with the authority to appoint a competent inspector to carry out the
provisions of this article.
(`90 Code, § 4-29)
§ 4-89 PERMIT FEES.
   All persons, firms and corporations shall before beginning any electrical
work or any additions to be made to old wiring, make written application for a
permit to the Community Planning and Development Office and shall pay the City
Clerk’s Office the inspection fee prescribed by the City Council by motion or
resolution.
(`90 Code, § 4-30) (Ord. 2649, passed - -)
§ 4-90 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   When, from good and sufficient cause, it is necessary to have electricity on
any installation before final certificate can be issued, the Electrical
Inspector may issue a temporary permit, provided that all the parts to which
the current is applied are in a safe and satisfactory condition. Before the
temporary permit is issued, the party receiving the same shall pay the
Electrical Inspector $1, the permit to run for 30 days. If at the end of 30
days the installation is still incomplete, another permit must be taken out for
the next 30 days, and for each succeeding 30 days.
(`90 Code, § 4-31)
§ 4-91 CONNECTIONS MADE AFTER APPROVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any electric light, heat or power company to
make any electrical connection to any building until a certificate stating that
the electric wiring has been approved, has been issued by the Electrical
Inspector.
   (B)   All firms, corporations or individuals, whether operating under a
regular franchise granted by the city or not, shall, upon written notice from
the Inspector, disconnect from any circuit designated by the notice and shall
not reconnect to the installation, except upon written notice from the
Inspector.
(`90 Code, § 4-32)
§ 4-92 INSPECTIONS; APPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for all owners, contractors or workers not
qualified for doing all electrical wiring to, in any manner, interfere with any
electrical wiring in or on any building whatsoever. If, in any case, the wiring
is in a position to interfere with the completion of the building as called for
by the plans, the wiring contractor must be notified to have it changed. No
wood or metal work is to be placed within one inch of any electrical conductor.
      (2)   On inspecting the electrical wiring of any building, the Inspector
shall leave a notice in the form of a tag or label attached to the service.
This notice shall clearly state whether the wiring is approved or is to be kept
open for corrections, and no work people shall lathe, seal or in any manner
conceal any electrical wiring until he knows positively that it has been
approved.
   (B)   The Inspector must in all cases inspect any electrical wiring within
the corporate limits of the city within 48 hours of the receipt of the notice
from the electric wiring contractor that the work is completed, holiday,
Saturday and Sunday not included in this time. All steam fitting, furnace work,
gas fittings and telephone wiring shall be completed, and no wiring shall be
considered as complete until the above work referred to is in.
(`90 Code, § 4-33)
§ 4-93 SUPERVISION OF WIRES.
   (A)   (1)   The Electrical Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to
have general supervision over the placing, stringing or attaching telegraph,
telephone, electric light or other wires and the placing of all poles and
appliances so as to prevent fire, accident or injury to persons or property and
to cause all wires and electric lights to be so placed, constructed and guarded
as not to cause fire, accident or endanger the life or property of any and all
lights and the wire or electrical apparatus now existing, as well as those
hereafter constructed and placed, shall be subject to the supervision.
      (2)   Whenever any electric wiring or other electrical apparatus becomes
unsafe or in a defective or insecure condition, the Inspector shall notify the
owner, agents or tenants.
   (B)   On failure to repair or remove the defective wiring or apparatus
within 24 hours, or the time as the Electrical Inspector may deem necessary,
the Inspector shall cause the service to be suspended.
(`90 Code, § 4-34)
§ 4-94 SPECIAL RULINGS.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the authority to make special rulings,
when circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life and property and the
improvement of electrical installations, but in all cases persons engaged in
the installing of electrical equipment and holding an electrical license must
be notified by letter of these decisions.
(`90 Code, § 4-35)
§ 4-95 AUTHORITY TO ENTER BUILDINGS.
   The Electrical Inspector in the discharge of his or her duties may enter any
building or premises at any reasonable time, and upon the refusal of the owner,
agent or occupant to allow the inspections, he or she shall be deemed guilty of
an offense.
(`90 Code, § 4-36)
§ 4-96 STATE LICENSE AND CITY REGISTRATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or vocation
of electrical contractor or journeyman electrician without first obtaining a
state license in accordance with 59 O.S. §§ 1680 et seq., and without first
registering as an electrical contractor or journeyman in accordance with this
article.
(`90 Code, § 4-37) (Ord. 2713, passed 10- -82)
§ 4-97 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR; REGISTRATION FEE.
   The annual registration fee for electrical contractors shall be as shown in
the fee schedule at the end of this code of ordinances. The registration year
shall be based on the fiscal year beginning July 1 and ending June 31 of each
year. Any person holding valid, paid up, city electrical contractors license on
the effective date of this article shall be permitted to register as an
electrical contractor the remainder of the current fiscal year without charge.
(`90 Code, § 4-38) (Ord. 2713, passed 10- -82)
§ 4-98 CONTRACTOR’S BOND.
   Every applicant for registration as an electrical contractor shall furnish
the city a bond issued by some security company authorized to do business in
the state, as a guarantee that all electrical wiring and equipment installed by
him or her shall be in accordance with the requirements of this article and of
the state code. The city shall not register any electrical contractor until the
bond is made and the fee is paid.
(`90 Code, § 4-39) (Ord. 2713, passed 10- -82)
§ 4-99 JOURNEYMEN; REGISTRATION FEE.
   The annual registration fee for journeyman electrician shall be as set out
in the fee schedule at the end of this code of ordinances. The registration
year shall be based on the fiscal year beginning July 1 and ending June 31 of
each year. Any person holding a valid, paid up, city journeyman electrician’s
license on the effective date of this article shall be permitted to register as
a journeyman electrician for the remainder of the current fiscal year without
charge.
(`90 Code, § 4-40) (Ord. 2713, passed 10- -82)
§ 4-100 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of any provision in this article shall be in
accordance with §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 4-40.1) (Ord. 2863, passed 4-18-89)
§ 4-101 WHEN REGISTRATION NOT REQUIRED.
   For the installation of bell, telephone or signal systems not using over 12
volts, no license will be required, but the installation of same must comply
with all other requirements of the ordinances of the city.
(`90 Code, § 4-41)
§ 4-102 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   After adequate opportunity for a hearing, the City Council may revoke
the registration of any electrical contractor or journeyman electrician for any
of the following causes:
      (1)   Serious or repeated violations of the laws, ordinances or other
regulations relating to electrical installations;
      (2)   Grossly unethical conduct in connection with the electrical trade
or business;
      (3)   Poor workmanship or service; or
      (4)   Installing inferior or substandard materials, fixtures or
equipment.
   (B)   A request that the license be revoked may be presented to the City
Council by the Electrical Inspector or by any aggrieved person.
(`90 Code, § 4-42) (Ord. 2713, passed 10- -82)
ARTICLE 7: MOBILE HOME PARKS; RECREATION VEHICLE PARKS
§ 4-115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath or shower. For purpose of regulation under this article, a DEPENDENT
MOBILE HOME shall be considered to be the same as a recreational vehicle,
unless otherwise specified.
   FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME or RECREATION VEHICLE. Any mobile home or
recreation vehicle not located in a mobile home park or recreation vehicle
park, respectively, licensed by the city or in an approved mobile home
subdivision.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated health authority of the city or his
or her authorized representative.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which meets the minimum gross floor
area or habitable space requirement, as provided in §
4-134, and which has a flush toilet and a bath or shower. Unless otherwise
indicated in the text of this article, the term MOBILE HOME shall mean an
INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME.
   INSPECTION OFFICER. The Building Inspector of the city or his or her
authorized agent.
   LICENSEE. Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park
under the provisions of this article.
   MOBILE HOME TYPE 1. A transportable structure intended for permanent
occupancy as a residential unit, larger than 400 square feet, fabricated in a
factory in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq., as amended, and rules
promulgated pursuant thereto, as amended, and which is in compliance with all
of the following requirements, each constructed in accordance with the code of
the city and the manufacturer’s standard and specifications:
      (1)   Placed on a support system;
      (2)   Completely enclosed around the base of the unit with foundation or
siding or skirting;
      (3)   Anchored to the ground;
      (4)   With all utilities connected; and
      (5)   With driveway and off-street parking.
   MOBILE HOME TYPE 2. A transportable structure intended for permanent
occupancy as a residential unit, larger than 320 square feet, fabricated in a
factory prior to or not in accordance with the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq., as amended,
and rules promulgated pursuant thereto, as amended, and which is in compliance
with all of the following requirements each constructed in accordance with the
code of the city:
      (1)   Placed on a support system;
      (2)   Completely enclosed around the base of the unit with foundation or
siding or skirting;
      (3)   Anchored to the ground;
      (4)   With all utilities connected; and
      (5)   With driveway and off-street parking.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME. A transportable structure intended for human
occupancy as residential unit, larger than 650 square feet, fabricated in a
factory in compliance with either the building and construction codes of the
city or the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act
of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq., as amended, and rules promulgated pursuant
thereto, as amended, and which is in compliance with all of the following
requirements each constructed in accordance with the code of the city and the
manufacturer’s standards and specifications:
      (1)   Placed on a permanent and complete foundation;
      (2)   Anchored to the ground;
      (3)   Have wheels, axles, hitch and other mechanisms removed; and
      (4)   Have siding and roofing material of a type, quality and appearance
customarily used on site constructed homes.
(`90 Code, § 4-43) (Am. Ord. 2810, passed 4-21-87)
§ 4-116 LICENSE AND TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or
operate any mobile home park or recreation vehicle park within the limits of
the city unless he or she holds a valid license issued annually by the City
Clerk with the approval of the Inspection Officer and Health Officer of the
city, in the name of the person for the specific mobile home park, except that
the maintenance or operation of a mobile home park or recreation vehicle park
in existence on the effective date of this article may be continued under a
temporary permit for the period of time and under the conditions as are
hereinafter described.
      (2)   Application shall be made to the City Clerk, who shall issue a
license upon compliance by the applicant with all pertinent provisions of this
and other ordinances and regulations of the city. Every person holding a
license shall notify the City Clerk in writing within 24 hours after having
sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of, interest in or control
of any mobile home park. The notice shall include the name and address of the
person succeeding to the ownership or control of the mobile home park or
recreation vehicle park.
   (B)   (1)   Application for original licenses shall be in writing signed by
the applicant and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth
of the application and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The interest of the applicant in and the location and legal
description of the park;
         (c)   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with all
applicable provisions of this article and regulations promulgated thereunder;
and
         (d)   Further information as may be requested by the Inspection
Officer and/or Health Officer.
      (2)   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made in writing by
the holder of the license and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Any change in the information submitted since the time the
original license was issued or the latest renewal granted; or
         (b)   Other information requested by the Inspection Officer and/or
Health Officer.
   (C)   A complete plan, as required by division (B)(1)(c) above for the
purpose of obtaining a license to be issued, shall show:
      (1)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      (2)   The number, locations and size of all mobile home spaces or
recreation vehicle spaces;
      (3)   The location and width of roadways, walkways, buffer strips and
recreational areas;
      (4)   The locations of service buildings and other proposed structures;
      (5)   The location and size of utility and treatment facilities; and
      (6)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the park.
   (D)   Whenever the Health Officer and/or Inspection Officer finds conditions
existing in violation of this article, or of any regulation adopted pursuant
thereto, he, she or they shall give notice in writing to the person to whom the
license was issued that, unless the conditions or practices be corrected within
a reasonable period of time specified in the notice, the license will be
suspended. At the end of the period, not to exceed 90 days, the Inspection
Officer and/or Health Officer shall reinspect the park, and if the conditions
or practices have not been corrected, he or she shall suspend the license and
give notice in writing of the suspension to the person to whom the license was
issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, the person shall cease operation
of the park, except as provided in §
4-119.
   (E)   Any person whose permit has been denied, suspended or who has received
notice from the Inspection Officer and/or Health Officer that his or her permit
will be suspended unless certain conditions or practices at the park are
corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
City Council, provided that when no petition for the hearing shall have been
filed within ten days following the day on which notice of suspension was
served, the license shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked at the
expiration of the ten-day period.
   (F)   (1)   A temporary permit, upon written request therefor, shall be
issued by the City Clerk upon written approval of the Inspection Officer and
Health Officer for every mobile home park or recreation vehicle park in
existence on the effective date of this article, permitting the park to be
maintained and operated during the period ending one year after the effective
date of this article, without being subject to the provisions of this article,
except such of the provisions as are made expressly applicable to permittee.
      (2)   The term of the temporary permit may be extended, upon written
request, for not to exceed one additional period of up to 180 days if:
         (a)   The permittee shall have filed application for a license in
conformity with this article within one year after the effective date of this
article;
         (b)   The park plans and specifications accompanying the application
for license comply with all the provisions of this article and all other
applicable ordinances and statutes; and
         (c)   The permittee has diligently endeavored to make the existing
park conform fully to the plans and specifications submitted with the
application but has failed to do so due to circumstances beyond his or her
control.
      (3)   Mobile home parks and recreation vehicle parks in existence upon
the effective date of this article which have concrete pads indicating the
location of mobile home spaces or recreation vehicle spaces need not comply
with those sections of this article which would require the moving of concrete
pads. They must, however, comply with all other requirements in accordance with
division (F)(1) and (2) of this section. In addition, any park expansion shall
be in full compliance with provisions of this article.
(`90 Code, § 4-44) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-117 FEES.
   The City Clerk shall charge and collect for each mobile home park and/or
recreation vehicle park an initial license or temporary permit fee as set out
in the fee schedule at the end of this code of ordinances. The initial license
or temporary permit shall expire one year from the date of issue, unless
renewed upon the conditions as the City Council may by ordinance direct. No
charge shall be made for renewals of licenses.
(`90 Code, § 4-45) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-118 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Inspection Officer and/or Health Officer is hereby authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of mobile home parks
and recreation vehicle parks located within the city in order to perform their
duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of mobile home parks
and of the general public.
   (B)   The Inspection Officer and/or Health Officer shall have the power to
inspect the outside premises of private or public property for the purposes of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
article or of regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (C)   The Inspection Officer and/or Health Officer shall have the power to
inspect the register containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants
using the park.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner
thereof or his or her agent or employee access to any part of the mobile home
park or recreation vehicle park or their premises at reasonable times for the
purpose of making repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance
with this article, or with any unlawful regulations adopted thereunder, or with
any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this article.
(`90 Code, § 4-46) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-119 NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Inspection Officer and/or Health Officer determines that
violations of pertinent regulations exist, the Inspection Officer shall notify
the licensee or permittee of the alleged violation. The notices shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Contain an outline of remedial action, which if taken, will effect
compliance with provisions of this article and other pertinent regulations;
      (4)   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days, for the performance
of any act it requires; and
      (5)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require. The notice or order shall be deemed as properly served upon the owner
or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his or her last
known address.
   (B)   Whenever the Health Officer in company of the Inspection Officer finds
conditions existing in violation of this article, or of any regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, the Inspection Officer shall give notice in writing to the
person to whom the license was issued, that unless the conditions or practices
be corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in the notice, the
license will be suspended. At the end of the period, not to exceed 90 days, the
Inspection Officer and/or Health Officer shall reinspect the park, and if the
conditions or practices have not been corrected, the Inspection Officer shall
suspend the license and give notice in writing of the suspension to the person
to whom the license was issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, the
person shall cease operation of the park, except as provided in division (C)
below.
   (C)   Any person affected by any notice issued under this article, or
resulting regulations, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the Zoning Board of Adjustment, provided that the person shall file with
the Inspection Officer a written request for the hearing and setting forth
briefly the grounds for the request within ten days after the day the notice
was served. When no request for the hearing shall have been filed within ten
days following the day on which notice of suspension was served, the license
shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked at the expiration of the
ten-day period. The filing of the request shall stay the notice of suspension
of permits and licenses, except in cases of orders issued under division (F)
below. The hearing shall be held by the Zoning Board of Adjustment at the
earliest possible time.
   (D)   After the hearing, the Inspection Officer shall compile the findings
of the Zoning Board of Adjustment as to compliance with this article and
pursuant regulations and shall issue an order in writing sustaining, modifying
or withdrawing the prior notice, which shall be served as provided in division
(A) above. Upon failure to comply with the order, the permit of the mobile home
park or recreation vehicle park shall be revoked.
   (E)   Appeals from decisions of the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be to
the District Court.
   (F)   Whenever the Inspection Officer and/or Health Officer finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health,
the Inspection Officer may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting
the existence of an emergency and requiring that the action be taken as he or
she may deem it necessary to meet the emergency, including the suspension of
the permit. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, the order
shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the City Council, shall be
afforded a hearing at the next regular meeting even if the agenda has been
completed.
(`90 Code, § 4-47) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-120 FREESTANDING MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   No freestanding mobile home or recreation vehicle shall be permitted
in the city limits other than in the RMH-1 District unless it is being offered
for sale, or parked for storage. Those freestanding mobile homes which are now
nonconforming uses under the provisions of the zoning ordinance may continue as
nonconforming uses provided that they shall not be stored in front yards or on
side yards abutting a street on corner lots.
   (B)   Except for mobile homes or recreation vehicles within regular
commercial mobile home or recreation vehicle sales lots or in the RMH-
1 Residential District, each clearly marked as such, shall not be occupied for
either living or sleeping purposes and must be removed from the premises if not
sold within 120 days. Freestanding mobile homes or recreation vehicles located
within regular commercial mobile home or recreation vehicles sales lots need be
neither individually marked for sale nor removed within 120 days if not sold. A
property owner shall not store, not permit to be stored, more than one mobile
home or recreation vehicle on a residential lot.
   (C)   Freestanding mobile homes shall be permitted in the city’s rural area,
but only in agricultural zoning districts. Permits for the freestanding mobile
homes shall be issued by the Inspection Officer, but only when the applicant
agrees, in writing, to remove the mobile home within 120 days after either the
mobile home site is rezoned to a district other than agricultural or is abutted
within 660 feet by districts other than agricultural. The freestanding mobile
homes must comply with all normal city regulations.
   (D)   Mobile homes located in the RMH-1 Residential District shall be
considered as a single-family residential unit for permanent occupancy and
shall conform with all requirements of the district and all other regulations
of the city.
(`90 Code, § 4-48) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-121 NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS.
   (A)   No nonresidential mobile trailer shall be permitted in the city unless
a license for its operation is issued by the Inspection Officer. The license
shall specify the permitted use of the nonresidential mobile trailer, the
location of the operation and the termination date of the permit. No license
shall be issued for use which would violate any city, state or federal
ordinance, law or regulation.
   (B)   A quarterly fee as set out in the fee schedule at the end of this code
of ordinances shall be charged for each nonresidential mobile trailer license,
which shall expire on January 31, April 30, July 31 or October 31, each year,
and be renewable on the first day of each succeeding quarter year thereafter.
   (C)   Operation of nonresidential trailers by contractors on construction
projects for which building permits have been issued or which are otherwise
approved by government units is permitted during the terms of the construction
project without issuance of a license.
   (D)   This section is not be construed as permitting or authorizing the
permanent location or any nonresidential mobile trailer in the city.
(`90 Code, § 4-49)
§ 4-122 LOCATION, SPACE AND LAYOUT.
   (A)   (1)   Parks shall be of three types:
         (a)   Mobile home parks;
         (b)   Recreational vehicle parks; and
         (c)   Mixed parks.
      (2)   No recreational vehicle shall be located in a mobile home park and
used for occupancy. In a mixed park, separate areas shall be reserved for
mobile homes and for recreational vehicles. No vehicle of one type shall be
allowed in the sector defined for another.
   (B)   All parks shall be located on a well-drained site, properly graded to
insure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water. Drainage shall
not endanger any water supply.
   (C)   The minimum area of any park shall be two acres. However, parks in
existence on the effective date of this article may continue to operate with
less than two acres, but, if the park is to be expanded, it must at that time
have a minimum area of two acres. The Board of Adjustment shall have authority
for a good cause to authorize parks of not less than one-half acre.
   (D)   Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than 12 mobile
homes per gross acre for a mobile home park and no more than 30 feet wide where
pads are closest to driveways. Recreational vehicle spaces shall be at least 25
feet wide where pads are located closest to the driveways.
   (E)   Every space shall be clearly defined. Mobile homes and recreational
vehicles shall be parked in the spaces that at the nearest point they shall be
ten feet from the service road, five feet from the rear lot line, and at least
15 feet from any other mobile home or recreational vehicle.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to locate a mobile home or recreational vehicle
less than 15 feet from any public street or highway right-of-way or so that any
part of the unit will obstruct any roadway or walkway of the park.
   (G)   It shall be lawful to permit a mobile home to occupy a recreational
vehicle space, a recreational vehicle to occupy a mobile home space.
   (H)   All spaces shall abut upon a sealed-surface driveway of not less than
20 feet in width if on-street parking is prohibited, and 26 feet in width if
on-street parking is permitted on one side of the street only. Driveways must
have unobstructed access to a public street or highway.
   (I)   (1)   In mobile home parks or recreational parks existing at the
effective date of this article, parking on or adjacent to the street within the
park is permissible so long as it does not obstruct free movements of traffic.
Whether or not a safety hazard exists is a question to be determined by the
Metropolitan Planning and Zoning Commission with final appeal to the City
Council. If a safety hazard does in fact exist, the mobile home park and
recreational vehicle park concerned will be required to comply with division
(I)(2) below.
      (2)   In new mobile home parks, at least two clearly defined parking
spaces will be provided for each mobile home space either on or adjacent to the
mobile home space. In new recreational vehicle parks at least one space will be
provided for each space. This is included in the 25-foot wide space.
   (J)   All driveways and walkways within a park shall be sealed-surface.
   (K)   In the city limits area, new mobile home parks should abut, and have
their major means of ingress and egress on, at least a secondary thoroughfare.
Recreational vehicle parks and mixed parks in the city limits area should abut
and have their major means of ingress and egress on at least a primary
thoroughfare.
(`90 Code, § 4-50) (Am. Ord. 2810, passed 4-21-87)
§ 4-123 SERVICE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Each recreational park shall be provided with at least one
service building adequately equipped with flush-type toilet fixtures and other
sanitary facilities as required in this article. No service building shall
contain less than two toilets for females, one toilet and urinal for males, one
lavatory and shower for each sex.
      (2)   The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and females
shall either be separate buildings or shall be separated, if in the same
building, by a soundproof wall.
      (3)   Recreational vehicle parks having ten or more spaces shall be
equipped with washing and drying facilities.
   (B)   Service buildings shall:
      (1)   Be of permanent construction and be adequately lighted;
      (2)   Be of moisture-resistant material to permit frequent washing and
cleansing;
      (3)    Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of
70°F. during cold weather and to supply adequate hot water during time of peak
demands; and
      (4)   Have all rooms well ventilated with all openings effectively
screened.
   (C)   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained
in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of any condition that will menace
the health of any occupant or the public or constitute a menace.
(`90 Code, § 4-51) (Am. Ord. 2810, passed 4-21-87)
§ 4-124 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop
sinks and laundries in service and other buildings within the park shall be
discharged into a public sewer and disposal plant, septic tank system or
private sewer and lagoon system of the construction and in the manner as
approved by the State Health Department and in accordance with all applicable
ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least four-inch sewer
connection. The sewer connection should be protected by a concrete collar at
least four inches thick and have a minimum outside diameter of eight inches.
The sewer connection shall be fitted with a standard ferrule and close nipple
and provided with a screw cap. Connection between the drain and the sewer must
be water-tight and self draining. Mobile homes with fixtures from which back
siphonage may occur shall not be connected to the park’s water system until the
defect has been corrected. Every recreational vehicle shall dump all
accumulated waste into a receptacle provided in the recreational vehicle park
upon entering and upon leaving the park. The receptacles must be approved by
the State Health Department. If desired by developer, individual four-inch
dumps may be provided at recreational vehicle parking spaces.
   (C)   In the event that a public sewer system is or becomes available within
300 feet of a mobile home park or recreation vehicle park, connection must be
made to the public system within 180 days.
   (D)   (1)   The design of private sewage treatment facilities shall be based
on the maximum capacity of the park. Effluent from sewage treatment facilities
shall be based on the maximum capacity of the park. Effluent from sewage
treatment facilities shall not be discharged into any watershed.
      (2)   The disposal facilities shall be located where they will not create
a nuisance or health hazard to the mobile home park or to the owner or
occupants of any adjacent property.
      (3)   The State Health Department must approve the type of treatment
proposed and the design of any disposal facilities and sewer systems prior to
construction.
   (E)   Every mobile home occupying a mobile home park space shall tie into
the park sewerage system and shall dump any accumulated waste into the system.
Every recreation vehicle shall dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle
provided in the recreation vehicle upon entering and upon leaving the park. The
receptacles must be approved by the State Health Department. Any other dump of
accumulated waste within the city is prohibited.
   (F)   (1)   The monthly sewerage charge shall be based on the maximum mobile
home or recreation vehicle capacity of the park.
      (2)   The park operator shall, by the tenth of each month, notify the
City Clerk of the maximum number of mobile home spaces in use at any one time
during the previous month. The City Clerk shall then adjust the sewerage fee to
the actual use of the park. Should the park operator fail to notify the City
Clerk of the prior month’s actual usage of recreation vehicle mobile home
spaces, the sewerage fee shall be levied on the maximum capacity of the park.
   (G)   Sewer connections shall be water-tight. Park licensees shall maintain
recreation vehicle and mobile home connections to sewer and water systems in
good condition and be responsible that there is no sewerage or water leakage on
the park premises.
(`90 Code, § 4-52) (Ord. 2490, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85; Am.
Ord. 2810, passed 4-21-87)
§ 4-125 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   (1)   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall
be provided in each park, capable of furnishing a minimum of 250 gallons per
day per mobile home space. Where a public supply of water of quality is
available within 300 feet or becomes available within 300 feet, connection
shall be made thereto within 180 days, and its supply shall be used
exclusively.
      (2)   Where private water supplies must be developed, the Health Officer
must approve the location, construction and development of both the water well
and pipe system and connections. No private source of other than water shall be
used.
   (B)   The water system of the mobile home park shall be connected by pipes
to all buildings and mobile home spaces. Each mobile home shall be provided
with a cold water tap at least four inches above the ground. An adequate supply
of hot water shall be provided at all times in the service buildings for all
bathing, washing, cleansing and laundry facilities.
   (C)   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with state and local law. the water piping system shall not be connected with
nonpotable or questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back-siphonage. All water connections shall be weather-
tight.
   (D)   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be of
a type and in locations approved by the Health Officer.
   (E)   Individual water service connections which are provided for direct use
by mobile homes or recreation vehicles shall be of a construction so that they
will not be damaged by the parking of the mobile homes or recreation vehicles.
The park system shall be adequate to provide 20 pounds per square inch of
pressure at all mobile homes or recreation reservoirs.
   (F)   Provisions shall be made within 150 feet of the recreation vehicle
space to supply water for recreation vehicle reservoirs.
   (G)   No well casing, pumps, pumping machinery or suction pipes, shall be
located in any pit, room or space extending below ground level, nor in any room
or space above ground, have free drainage by gravity to the surface. All floors
shall be watertight and sloped from the pump pedestal to the drain, and floors
shall extend at least two feet from the well in all directions. The pedestal
shall not be less than 12 inches above the floor. This shall not be construed
as prohibiting submersible pumps.
   (H)   All water storage reservoirs shall be watertight and constructed of
impervious material. All overflow and vents of the reservoirs shall be
effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be
constructed with overlapping covers to as to prevent the entrance of
contaminated material. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any
pipe in which sewage or polluted water may back up.
   (I)   Underground stop and wastecocks shall not be installed on any
connections.
   (J)   No water well shall draw water from any sands reserved to the city for
its use, except as may be otherwise permitted by ordinances of the city.
(`90 Code, § 4-53) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-126 REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the park shall be so
managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   (B)   All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof
containers, which shall be located within 150 feet of any mobile home space or
recreation vehicle space. Containers shall be provided in sufficient numbers
and capacity to properly store all refuse.
   (C)   Racks or holders shall be provided for all refuse containers. The
container racks or holders shall be so designed as to prevent containers from
being tipped to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them. Lids for containers shall be permanently connected to
racks or holders with chains or other flexible materials.
   (D)   All refuse shall be collected at least twice weekly and as otherwise
required by the Health Officer. Where municipal garbage collection is not
available, the mobile home park operator shall either employ a private agency
or provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in
covered vehicles or covered containers.
   (E)   Where municipal or other private disposal service is not available the
mobile home park operator shall dispose of the refuse by burial, or
transporting to an approved disposal site, as directed by the Health Officer.
Refuse shall be buried only at locations and by methods approved by the
Inspection Officer and in accordance with the ordinances of the city.
   (F)   When municipal refuse disposal service is available, it must be used.
(`90 Code, § 4-54) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-127 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health, as
required by the Inspection Officer and/or Health Officer, shall be applied in
the mobile home park or recreation vehicle park.
   (B)   Effective larvicidal solutions may be required by the Inspection
Officer and/or Health Officer for fly or mosquito breeding areas which cannot
be controlled by other, more permanent measures.
   (C)   The Inspection Officer and/or Health Officer may require the park
operator to take suitable measures to control other insects and obnoxious
weeds.
   (D)   Accumulations of debris which may provide harborage for rodents shall
not be permitted in the mobile home park.
   (E)   When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to be in the park,
the park operator shall take definite action, as directed by the Inspection
Officer and/or Health Officer to exterminate them.
(`90 Code, § 4-55) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-128 ELECTRICITY; EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   An electrical outlet supplying at least 100 amperes shall be provided
for each mobile home space. The installation shall comply with all applicable
state and local electrical codes and ordinances. The electrical outlets and
extension lines shall be grounded and weatherproofed. Plug receptacles shall
also be grounded and weatherproofed. No power supply line shall be permitted to
lie on the ground, and no main power line shall be suspended less than 18 feet
above the ground, unless otherwise approved by the Inspection Officer.
   (B)   Streets and driveways within mobile home and recreation vehicle parks
shall be lighted with street lights meeting the current standards of the
illuminating Engineering Society or one-half candlepower, whichever is higher.
(`90 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-129 PIPING.
   (A)   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile
homes shall be of acceptable material as determined by the Inspection Officer
and shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place.
   (B)   All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in
place and shall not be located inside or beneath the mobile home or less than
five feet from any mobile home exit.
(`90 Code, § 4-57)
§ 4-130 PARK AREAS; WATER; FIRES.
   (A)   Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other flammable
materials.
   (B)   Where the water supply system does not provide at least six-inch water
mains, there shall be provided a two-inch frost protected water riser within
300 feet of each mobile home or building.
   (C)   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other cooking and/or heating
equipment intended for the purposes.
(`90 Code, § 4-58)
§ 4-131 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs in the park shall
be made in accordance with the applicable regulations of the city.
   (B)   Skirting of mobile homes is permissible, but areas enclosed by the
skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for rodents or
create a fire hazard.
   (C)   A permit issued by the Inspection Officer shall be required before any
construction on a mobile home space or any structural addition or alteration to
the exterior of a mobile home takes place. No construction or addition or
alteration to the exterior of a mobile home located in a mobile home park shall
be permitted unless of the same type of construction or materials as the mobile
home affected. All construction, additions or alterations shall be in
compliance with applicable local and state laws. No permit shall be required
for the addition of steps, canopies, awning or antennas.
   (D)   No structure other than a mobile home shall be permitted on a mobile
home space, except that one structure of not to exceed 210 cubic feet to be
used for storage on each space.
(`90 Code, § 4-59)
§ 4-132 REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Each licensee or permittee shall keep a register containing a record
of all mobile home and recreation vehicle owners and occupants located within
the park. The register shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or occupant of each mobile home
and motor vehicle by which it is towed;
      (2)   The make, model, year and license of each mobile home and motor
vehicle;
      (3)   The state, territory or country issuing the license;
      (4)   The date of arrival and of departure of each mobile home;
      (5)   Whether or not each mobile home is a dependent or independent
mobile home; and
      (6)   Each mobile home or recreation vehicle shall be identified while in
a park space of some clear, legible and orderly external method identification
or numbering system.
   (B)   The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times
by law enforcement officers, public health officials, city officials and other
officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in
the register. The register record of each occupant registered shall not be
destroyed for a period of one year following the date of departure of the
registrant from the park.
(`90 Code, § 4-60) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-87)
§ 4-133 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Wrecked, damaged or dilapidated mobile homes and recreation vehicles shall
not be kept or stored in a mobile home park or recreation vehicle park. The
Health Officer shall determine if a mobile home or recreation vehicle is
damaged or dilapidated to a point which makes the mobile home or recreation
vehicle unfit for human occupancy on either a temporary or permanent basis.
Whenever a determination is made, the mobile home or recreation vehicle shall
be vacated and removed from the premises.
(`90 Code, § 4-61) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-134 MINIMUM HOUSING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every mobile home located in either a mobile home park, a mobile home
subdivision or as a freestanding mobile home, shall meet the provisions of the
housing code of the city, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   Every mobile home shall contain the following minimum gross floor area
or habitable space:
      (1)   One hundred-fifty square feet for one or two occupants;
      (2)   One hundred additional square feet for a third occupant; and
      (3)   Eighty square feet additional for each additional occupant
thereafter.
   (C)   Habitable space in a mobile home shall have a minimum ceiling height
of seven feet over 50 percent of the floor area and the floor area where the
ceiling height is less than five feet shall not be considered in computing
minimum gross floor area.
   (D)   A mobile home shall have a safe and unobstructed primary exit and an
emergency exit located from the primary exit.
   (E)   Rooms occupied for sleeping purposes must contain at least 60 square
feet of floor space if used by more than one person and at least 40 square feet
if used by one person.
   (F)   Dependent mobile homes shall not be required to have flush toilet or a
bath or shower.
   (G)   The housing code shall not apply to recreation vehicles insofar as
floor area, flush toilet, bath or shower or ceiling height is concerned.
(`90 Code, § 4-62) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-135 MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Mobile home subdivisions shall comply with the subdivision ordinance
and the zoning ordinance of the city, except as otherwise provided.
   (B)   The minimum size of a mobile home subdivision shall be ten acres.
   (C)   No residence, except mobile homes, shall be permitted in a mobile home
subdivision.
   (D)   Side line of lots in mobile subdivisions need not be at right angles
to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (E)   Regardless of the effective lot width, mobile home subdivision lots
must abut a public street for at least 25 feet.
   (F)   (1)   All mobile home subdivisions shall have a greenbelt planting
strip, not less than 20 feet in width, along all subdivision boundaries.
      (2)   The greenbelt shall be composed of one row of deciduous and/or
evergreen trees, spaced not more than 40 feet apart, and not less than three
rows of shrubs, spaced not more than 40 feet apart, and not less than three
rows of shrubs spaced not more than eight feet apart and which grow to a height
of five feet or more after one full growing season and which shrubs will
eventually grow to a height of not less than 12 feet.
(`90 Code, § 4-63) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-136 SUPERVISION.
   The licensee, permittee or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker, shall
be in charge at all times to keep the mobile home park, its facilities and
equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition.
The attendant or caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee or permittee,
for the violation of any provision of this article to which the licensee or
permittee is subject.
(`90 Code, § 4-64)
§ 4-137 POSTING OF LICENSE AND PERMIT.
   The license certificate or temporary permit shall be conspicuously posted in
the office of or on the premises of the mobile home park or the recreation
vehicle park at all times.
(`90 Code, § 4-65) (Ord. 2767, passed 3-5-87)
ARTICLE 8: MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 4-150 PIERS AND FOOTINGS.
   Mobile homes located in the A-1 General Agriculture District and in the A-
2 Suburban District, R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District, R-2 General
Residential District as set forth in Ordinance No. 2422, as amended, (as set
forth in §
16-15 of this code of ordinances), shall conform with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Piers and footings with the following minimum requirements shall be
installed under the supporting main frame. Maximum pier spacing will be ten
foot on center, with the end piers being no farther than five feet from the
ends of the unit. Frame ties shall be positioned near a pier. Piers shall be
constructed of standard eight-inch by eight-inch by 16-inch celled concrete
blocks or approved substitute as specified by N.M.H.C. and S.S. Act of 1974, 42
USC 5401 et seq., as amended, placed over a 24-inch by 24-inch by 16-inch
footing, with the long dimensions of the block crossways (perpendicular) to the
main frame members and centered under them. The cells of the concrete blocks
shall run in a vertical direction. Piers shall be topped with a solid concrete
cap eight-inch by 16-inch by four-inch or with a pressure-treated wood cap
eight-inch by 12-inch by two-inch. If needed to provide uniform bearing,
treated wood shims should be driven tight between the cap and the supporting
main frame. Piers more than 40 inches high shall be double tiers of
interlocking concrete blocks.
   (B)   Tie-down components will have a minimum loading strength of 4,750
pounds and each anchor will have a minimum holding power of 5,700 pounds. If
screw type auger anchors are used due to the sandy type soil in this area, two
may be required to obtain the 5,700 pounds holding power. Frame ties will be
cross frame type and will be secured to the anchor with closed eye and jaw type
turnbuckles.
 
Ten- and 12-foot                                Twelve- to 14-foot
30 to 50 feet long (per 30 to 60 feet long (per 60 to 80 feet long (per
side)                   side)                   side)
Frame ties Over-the-top Frame ties Over-the-top Frame ties Over-the top ties
           ties                    ties
4          3            5          3            5          3
 
   (C)   Wheels, axles and hitch mechanism will be removed making the mobile
home a permanent type structure, thus all building, electrical, mechanical and
plumbing permits will apply.
   (D)   (1)   The entire perimeter of the floor area of the home shall be
completely enclosed, except for required service access openings.
      (2)   Enclosure material shall be treated foundation grade wood,
concrete, masonry or other similar type material and extend four inches below
ground level.
(`90 Code, § 4-65.1) (Ord. 2768, passed 3-5-85)
§ 4-151 APPROVED SIDING AND ROOFING MATERIALS.
   Each mobile home, type I or mobile/manufactured home placed on a site in any
residential zoning district, as set forth in Ordinance No. 2422, as amended,
(as set forth in §
16-15 of this code of ordinances), other than the R-4 mobile home park district
shall have roofing and siding materials in compliance with the following:
   (A)   The list of approved siding materials shall include:
      (1)   Residential horizontal aluminum or steel lap siding;
      (2)   Residential horizontal vinyl lap siding;
      (3)   Cedar or other wood siding;
      (4)   Wood grain, weather resistant, press board siding;
      (5)   Stucco siding; or
      (6)   Brick or stone siding.
   (B)   The list of approved roofing materials shall include:
      (1)   Asbestos shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
      (2)   Fiberglass shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
      (3)   Shake shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
      (4)   Asphalt shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles; or
      (5)   Tile materials on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the materials.
(`90 Code, § 4-65.2) (Ord. 2768, passed 3-5-85)
ARTICLE 9: SIGNS AND AWNINGS
§ 4-165 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Signs constitute a separate and distinct use of the land upon which
they are placed and affect the use of adjacent streets, sidewalks, and other
public places and adjacent private places open to the public. The unregulated
construction, placement and display of signs constitute a public nuisance
detrimental to the health, safety, convenience, and welfare of the residents of
the city.
   (B)   The purpose of this article is to establish reasonable and impartial
regulations for all exterior signs and those interior signs designed to attract
the attention of persons located outdoors. The result of this article will
reduce the traffic hazards caused by such unregulated signs which may distract
and confuse, and impair the visibility of motorists and pedestrians; ensure the
effectiveness of public traffic signs and signals; protect property values by
ensuring the compatibility of property with that surrounding it; provide an
attractive visual environment throughout the city; protect the character and
appearance of various neighborhoods in the city; attract tourists to the city;
protect the public investments in streets, highways, and other public
improvements; and protect and improve the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (C)   The regulations contained in the article advance these significant
government interests and are the minimum amounts of regulation necessary to
achieve them.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
§ 4-166 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   All signs not specifically exempted herein shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable provisions of other
regulations of the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this article shall supersede
Article 12 of this chapter.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
§ 4-167 AWNING SUPPORTS; HEIGHT AND WIDTH.
   All awnings within the fire limits of the city shall have metal supports
from above with frames made of either iron, aluminum or wood with cloth,
canvas, or metal covering the lower part of the covering where it extends
across or over the sidewalk, shall be at least eight feet above the same,
provided that no awning shall exceed eight feet in depth from the building.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
§ 4-168 UNSAFE AWNINGS.
   If any awning within the fire limits of the city shall, by reason of its
construction or use or from decay or any other cause, be reported to be
dangerous or unsafe so as to endanger life, limb or property, it shall be the
duty of the Authority having jurisdiction to immediately inspect the awning or
structure, and if he or she deems the same dangerous and unsafe, he or she
shall cause the same to be made safe, removed or destroyed in the same manner
and according to the same procedure provided by the article relating to unsafe
structures.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
§ 4-169 SIGNS OVER SIDEWALKS.
   Projecting signs from horizontal standards mounted perpendicular to the
building may be installed with the following restrictions:
   (A)   No sign may project more than four feet from a building or less than
eight feet above the surface level of the sidewalk or lot.
   (B)   Signs on two-story buildings may not extend vertically above the sills
of the lowest second floor windows.
   (C)   Signs on one-story buildings may not extend above the cornice line.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
§ 4-170 SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this article, it shall be unlawful to
construct, modify, or relocate any sign without first obtaining a sign permit.
   (B)   No signs shall be constructed unless it complies with all applicable
ordinances and codes, including, but not limited to the Electrical and Building
Codes. Nonconforming signs that become damaged or destroyed, if re-built, must
conform to the standards of this article.
   (C)   A sign permitted as a business sign shall not be changed to an outdoor
advertising sign.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
§ 4-171 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ADVERTISING DEVICES. Banners or streamers affixed to poles, wires, or ropes,
wind operated devices, flashing lights, and other similar contrivances.
   BACK-TO-BACK SIGN. An advertising structure with two closely located signs
which face in opposing directions, spaced less than ten feet apart at the point
of shortest measurement.
   BANNER SIGN. A sign with characters, letters, or illustrations applied to a
flexible material intended to be hung, suspended, or otherwise attached without
a rigid framework.
   BENCH SIGN. A sign incorporated into the seat or back of a bench which is
intended to be sat on by customers. Signs typically include one or more off-
premises advertisements.
   BUSINESS SIGN. Any display, device, figure, plaque, poster, billboard, or
sign maintained or used to advertise or inform or to direct the attention of
the public to a business or activity conducted upon the premises upon which
such sign is located or to a product or service sold or rendered thereon.
   FACE. That area of a business sign containing the advertising information,
painting, drawing, or message intended or used to advise or inform, and
excluding trim and supports.
   FACE OF BUILDING. The total area of the main wall of a building, including
windows, doors, and openings, that abuts the front yard of a building or walls
that are located on the front property line. On corner lots the FACE OF THE
BUILDING shall include main walls facing the front yard and side yard or main
walls fronting on all front and side property lines.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign, the illumination of which is not constant in
intensity when in use, except illuminated signs which indicate the date, time,
or temperature, or other public safety information displayed by or at the
direct request of city, county, state, or federal agency shall not be
considered a FLASHING SIGN.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign affixed to a marquee over the entrance or on the face
of a building and supported from the building.
   MOVING SIGN. Any sign which moves or has moving parts other than parts which
indicate time, temperature; or other than moving devices which provide needed
public service information.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign which directs the attention of the public to a
business or activity conducted or product or service sold or offered at a
location not on the same premises where such business sign is located.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN. Any display, device, figure, plaque, poster,
billboard or sign maintained or used to advertise, promote, or direct attention
of the public to a business or activity other from that conducted upon the
premises upon which such sign is located.
   POST SIGN. Any business sign which is not attached to a building but is
supported by braces, post, or by any other means than by attachment to a
building support.
   PREMISES. An area under a single ownership or a single lease, no part of
which is separated from the other by any land under a different ownership or
lease agreement.
   PROJECT SIGN. A sign or signs displaying the name of a shopping center and/
or tenants occupying space within a shopping center.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign which is firmly attached to a building and extends
outward from the building.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign painted, erected, constructed, or maintained upon the
roof of any building.
   SIGN. An identification, description, illustration, or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure, or
land and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, person,
institution, or business.
   SIGN AREA. The entire area of the actual message or copy area. It shall
include decorative trim or embellishments but shall not include structural
elements outside the limits of such display surface and not forming an integral
part of the display. On all signs, all faces shall be counted in computing the
SIGN AREA.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY FRONTAGE. The distance along any one side of any public
street or highway, street or alley, measured along the right-of-way line or
parallel to the normal right-of-way line where the right-of-way line is not
fixed.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign which is painted on or firmly attached to a wall of any
building and which does not extend beyond the building more than 12 inches.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
§ 4-172 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   The following signs are hereby prohibited within the city:
      (1)   Off-premises signs, including billboard signs.
      (2)   Signs erected in violation of the city’s building, electrical, or
sign codes.
      (3)   Portable signs, except those allowed as temporary signs. Any sign
so designated as to be removable from one location to another and not
permanently attached to the ground or any immobile structure, whose primary
function during a specific time is to provide advertisement for products or
directing people to a business or activity located on the premises.
      (4)   Roof signs.
      (5)   Signs attached to or painted or drawn on any utility pole, curb,
sidewalk, light post, hydrant, rock, bench, bridge, fence, highway marker,
highway regulatory sign or mailbox on public property.
      (6)   Signs illuminated to such an intensity or brightness as to cause
glare or impair vision. Lighting shall be shielded upward to prevent light from
being directed at any portion of a traveled roadway or an occupied residential
area. This requirement shall not apply to internally lit signs with a lighting
intensity of less than 100 foot lamberts (candles). No illuminated sign shall
be erected within 50 feet of other property in a Residential District or PUD
Designated Residential Development Area if visible from such district or area.
      (7) Signs erected in the public right-of-way.
      (8)   Signs on vehicles used as an on-premises advertising sign.
      (9)   Banner signs, except those allowed in §
4-174 as temporary signs.
      (10)   Any sign which may interfere with the view of or be confused with
any traffic control sign, signal or device, or any sign which may interfere
with, mislead or confuse traffic, or reduce visibility at any street
intersection.
      (11)   Signs for businesses that are no longer operating.
      (12)   Digital displays may be permitted only if the images remain
constant for a period of time not less than six seconds and the transitions
appear instantaneous; and signs with scrolling text shall be allowed provided
the length of the message does not exceed six seconds.
      (13)   Signs erected in, projecting into, or otherwise located or placed
in the public right-of-way except those placed by agencies of government or
those that may be allowed in the Historic District.
      (14)   Outdoor advertising signs, including billboards, and on fences.
      (15)   Signs with structures larger than is reasonably necessary to
support the sign.
   (B)   Portable trailer signs may be used by non-profit organizations but
shall only be utilized and visible to the public two days prior to an event,
during the event and shall be removed from sight one day after an event. In no
event shall any portable trailer sign remain visible to the public for any
continuous period in excess of 14 days.
   (C)   Legally nonconforming billboard signs are signs which are lawfully
erected and maintained prior to the enactment of this section and any
amendments thereto and which do not conform to all the applicable regulations
and restrictions of this code.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
§ 4-173 GENERAL USE CONDITIONS FOR ON-PREMISES SIGNS; BUSINESS SIGNS.
   (A)   Maximum area allowable. The number of signs, total area of all sign
faces, location and design standards, on any lot or any street frontage must
adhere to the following restrictions:
      (1)   For lots less than 150 feet wide, the total area for all signs on
the premises pertaining to any one business shall not exceed 480 square feet.
      (2)   For lots 150 feet wide or greater, the total area of all signs on
the premises pertaining to any one business shall not exceed 600 square feet.
      (3)   For lots larger than five acres with one frontage greater than 300
feet, the total area of all signs on the premises pertaining to one business
shall not exceed 1,000 square feet.
   (B)   Display surface area.
      (1)   Ground signs.
         (a)   Area allowable: The greater of 48 square feet or one square foot
per linear foot of street frontage up to 50 square feet per side and 100 square
feet total for all sides at the setback line.
         (b)   Area allowable increase: for every one foot that a sign sits
behind the setback line, add to area allowable one square foot per side up to
60 square feet per side and 120 square feet total for all sides.
         (c)   Frontage: one sign per street frontage.
         (d)   Height allowable: 25 feet at setback line.
         (e)   Height allowable increase: for every six feet that the sign sits
behind setback line, add to allowable one foot in height up to 30 feet.
         (f)   Additional ground sign: For lots which are zoned commercial, and
lie within 1,000 feet of I-35, one additional accessory ground sign may be
erected. The additional sign can have a maximum height of 50 feet. No such sign
may be constructed closer to the boundary line of any residentially zoned
property than a distance equal to four times the height of the sign.
      (2)   Wall signs. The display surface area of a wall sign is the sum of
the area of the minimum imaginary rectangles enclosing each word attached to
any particular facade.
         (a)   Area allowable: The greater of 48 square feet or one square foot
per lineal foot of frontage up to 100 square feet. For one business in a
building larger than 30,000 square feet on a lot greater than three acres, the
allowable wall signage for each building frontage shall be one square foot per
linear foot of building frontage up to 400 square feet.
         (b)   Area allowable increase: For every one foot that a sign sits
behind the setback line, add to area allowable one square foot, up to 100
square feet.
         (c)    Height allowable: The minimum height for wall signs is eight
feet above a walkway and 15 feet above a drive surface.
            1.   The maximum height allowable shall not be higher than the eave
or rafter line (top) of the wall on which the sign is located, whichever is
higher.
            2.   Location: Wall signs shall be located on a vertical surface of
the building.
            3.   Projection: Maximum projection of wall signs from the building
shall be no greater than 15 inches. The end panels of such signs shall contain
no item of information and shall not be counted in the computed sign area.
      (3)   Double or multi-faced signs. All sides of a sign imprinted with a
message or logo shall be calculated in the total sign area calculation.
      (4)   Projecting signs. Allowed if the front of the structure is within
four feet or less of the right-of-way. They are not allowed if a ground sign is
used.
         (a)   Area allowable: The greater of 32 square feet or one square foot
per linear foot of frontage up to 40 square feet per side and 80 square feet
total for all sides at the setback line.
         (b)   Signs on two-story buildings may not extend above the sills of
the second floor windows.
         (c)   Signs on one-story buildings may not extend above the cornice
line.
         (d)   No projecting sign shall extend closer than two feet to the curb
line or edge of pavement.
   (C)   Multiple signs in a single structure. When a business has more than
one sign on a single structure, the sign area is to be calculated by the
individual geometric shapes of each sign.
   (D)   Shopping centers shall not exceed two square feet of signage for every
100 square feet of gross leasable area (GLA) within the shopping center.
      (1)   Wall signs shall not exceed an aggregate display surface area of
more than one square foot per each linear foot of building wall to which the
sign or signs is attached.
   (E)   Sign illumination.
      (1)   Signs may be illuminated which comply with the following conditions
and any other applicable ordinances.
         (a)   All lighting used for the illumination of a sign shall be
shielded so that the beams or rays of the light will not shine directly onto
surrounding areas.
         (b)   Signs shall not be erected which contain, include or are
illuminated by any flashing, intermittent, revolving or moving light.
         (c)   No sign shall be illuminated so that it interferes with the
effectiveness or obscures any official traffic sign, device, or signal, or
imitates or may be confused with any such official traffic sign, device or
signal, neither shall it be permitted to have beams or rays directed on any
portion of the traveled ways and be of such intensity or brilliance to cause
glare or impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle or which
otherwise interferes with any driver’s operation of a motor vehicle.
         (d)   Illumination shall not exceed 300 total foot lamberts of
luminance.
   (F)   Digital signs.
      (1)   Digital signs, automated changeable copy signs, running light or
twinkle signs, animated signs, revolving or rotating signs or signs with
movement shall be subject to the following limitations:
         (a)   No such sign shall be located within 50 feet of the driving
surface of a signalized intersection. The 50 feet shall be measured in a
straight line from the nearest point on sign structure to the nearest point of
the signalized intersection.
         (b)   No such sign shall be located within 20 feet of the driving
surface of a street. The 20 feet shall be measured in a straight line from the
nearest point on a sign structure to the nearest point of the street curb, or
edge of the traveled roadway marked or understood as such.
         (c)   No such sign, if visible from a Residential Zoning District
other than street, highway or freeway right-of-way, or if visible from a
designated residential development area, shall be located within 200 feet of
such district or area. The 200 feet shall be measured in a straight line from
the nearest point on a sign structure to the nearest point of an R Zoning
District or residential development area boundary line.
         (d)   No such sign shall exceed an illumination of 70 foot candles
measured at a two-foot distance.
         (e)   No such digital sign shall display an illuminative brightness
exceeding 500 NITs at any time between one-half hour after sunset until one-
half hour before sunrise or 6,500 NITs between one- half hour before sunrise
until one half hour after sunset.
         (f)   No such digital sign shall display an illuminative brightness of
such intensity or brilliance that it impairs the vision or endangers the safety
and welfare of any pedestrian, cyclist, or person operating a motor vehicle.
         (g)   Not such digital sign shall resemble or simulate any warning or
danger signal, or any official traffic control device, sign, signal or light.
         (h)   No such digital sign shall be permitted to operate unless it is
equipped with:
            1.   A default mechanism that shall freeze the sign in one position
of static message if a malfunction occurs; and
            2.   A mechanism able to automatically adjust the display’s
illuminative brightness according to natural ambient light conditions by means
of a light detector/photo cell by which the sign’s brightness shall be dimmed.
   (G)   Maximum number of signs. Except for wall signs and exempt signs, the
maximum number of business signs per lot of record shall be as follows:
      (1)   Individual lot - single business. Only one ground sign shall be
permitted per tract ownership, except:
         (a)   When there is a single ownership fronting on two streets, not to
include alleys or driveways; one additional sign may be permitted if spaced at
least 300 feet apart.
         (b)   Or when there is a single ownership on a contiguous lot with
frontage in excess of 600 feet, one additional sign shall be permitted with at
least 300 feet minimum separation between signs.
      (2)   Shopping centers. A building or group of buildings which share a
common parking facility and/or drive approaches shall place signs on a common
project sign(s). Only one project sign shall be allowed except:
         (a)   When there is a frontage on two streets, not to include alleys
or driveways; one additional sign may be permitted if spaced at least 300 feet
apart.
         (b)   Or when there is frontage in excess of 600 feet, one additional
sign shall be permitted with at least 300 feet minimum separation between
signs.
      (3)   Free-standing single tenant at shopping centers.
         (a)   When free-standing buildings are located at shopping center
locations, either as individually-owned properties, or lease sites, the free-
standing buildings shall be considered part of the group of buildings in the
shopping center. Ground signs for these occupancies may be permitted on the
shopping center project sign.
         (b)   There shall be only one ground sign per free-standing single
tenant building per occupancy or ownership.
   (H)   Maximum sign height and location.
      (1)   The maximum permitted sign height shall be measured from the
average level of the grade below the sign to the topmost point of the sign or
sign structure.
      (2)   Except or unless otherwise provided herein no sign or sign
structure shall exceed a maximum permitted height of 30 feet.
      (3)   Any sign or sign structure located within 1,000 feet of the right-
of-way line of an interstate highway may be erected to a height of not more
than 50 feet above grade level of such thoroughfare at the point thereon
nearest such sign or sign structure.
      (4)   No sign or sign structure shall be erected to a height greater than
the horizontal distance from such structure to the nearest other property or
right-of-way.
      (5)   Business signs, including projecting signs and ground signs, must
maintain a minimum separation of 30 feet from other business signs.
   (I)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Approved signs with a display surface area of less than 300 square
feet must be erected at least 150 feet from any Residential Zoning District.
      (2)   Signs with a display surface area larger than 300 square feet,
which are visible from a Residential Zone other than a street, highway, or
freeway right-of-way or if visible from a designated residential development
area, must be set back at least 300 feet from such zone or area.
      (3)   Signs shall be set back a minimum distance of ten feet from a
freeway right-of-way.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
§ 4-174 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs shall not require a sign permit, but will require
registration at the Planning Department prior to their use or display. The
registration shall state when the signs will first be displayed and when they
will be removed. Temporary signs will be regulated further as follows:
   (A)   No off-site temporary signs are allowed.
   (B)   Temporary public interest signs, including portable signs,
inflatables, wind-operated devices and banners announcing activities or other
events of a public, civic, philanthropic or religious organization, shall be
subject to the following:
      (1)   Signs shall be a maximum size of 50 square feet.
      (2)   Only one such sign shall be allowed per tract ownership per street
frontage.
      (3)   No temporary sign shall be located within 100 feet of another
temporary sign.
      (4)   Temporary signs shall be permitted for a maximum period of 30 days,
and no additional temporary sign shall be permitted on the same tract for a
period of 30 days after removal of the previous sign. Upon expiration, the
sign, along with any straps, ties, stakes, t-posts, or any other items
installed for the placement of the sign, must be removed.
      (5)   Temporary signs must meet all other requirements of this Sign Code.
   (C)   Fence signs are prohibited; however, advertising signs may be
permitted at athletic fields owned and operated by tax-exempt, nonprofit
organizations, as follows: At baseball fields, signs may be hung or painted on
the outfield fences, so that the signs face only inward toward the playing
field; at other athletic fields, signs may be displayed so long as the sign
content cannot be discerned by persons passing by the outside of the stadium or
field. No such sign shall extend beyond the dimensions of the fence to which it
is attached.
   (D)   Political signs.
      (1)   Duration. Political signs must be removed five days after the
election. Political signs cannot be placed more than 60 days in advance of an
election.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   Public locations: Political signs shall not be placed within any
park, boulevard, street, parkway, median, public right-of-way, or easement
under the control of or maintained by the city.
         (b)   Private locations: Signs may be placed on private property only
with the owner’s permission. Signs must be placed on the house side of the
sidewalk. If no sidewalk exists, the signs must be placed either at least 15
feet from the curb or street edge, or outside of the street right-of-way,
whichever is greater.
         (c)   Historic District: political signs to be placed in the Historic
District must conform to Historic Preservation Sign Guidelines, in accordance
with
Article 12 of this chapter.
      (3)   Disposal. Any signs found in violation shall be collected by the
Code Enforcement Department and disposed of.
      (4)   Size. Political signs in Commercial and Industrial Zones shall not
exceed 50 square feet in size. Political signs in Residential Zones shall not
exceed 24 by 30 feet in size.
   (E)   Grand opening signs shall not be displayed more than 15 days.
   (F)   Real estate signs.
      (1)   Real estate For Sale signs are allowed and must be removed within
15 days after the premises are rented, leased or sold.
      (2)   On and off-premises Home For Sale and Open House signs are subject
to the following:
         (a)   Open House signs shall not be placed more than 24 hours in
advance and shall be removed immediately following the event.
         (b)   Signs shall not exceed 24 inches by 30 inches in size, nor shall
they be installed more than four feet above grade.
         (c)   Signs shall have a minimum separation of 25 feet and signs for
any one advertiser must be at least 200 feet apart.
         (d)   Signs shall not be located in the public right-of-way.
         (e)   Signs shall not be located more than three miles from the
subject property.
         (f)   Signs shall be rigid, two-dimensional displays.
         (g)   Written permission shall be obtained from owners of property
where the sign is located. Only one directional sign shall be allowed on any
property.
      (3)   Subdivision directional signs will be subject to the following:
         (a)   Signs shall be a maximum size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Signs must be placed upon unimproved property with the
permission of the owner.
         (c)   Signs must be placed at least 100 feet from any other
subdivision or developer signs.
         (d)   Signs may be erected for a maximum of one year unless additional
one-year approval is given by the Board of Adjustment. A maximum of two one-
year approvals shall be permitted by the Board of Adjustment.
         (e)   Signs shall meet all requirements of the Sign Code, including
permitting requirements.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
§ 4-175 EXEMPTED SIGNS.
   (A)   Tablets built into the wall of a building or other structure and used
for inscriptions, memorial tablets or for similar purposes.
   (B)   Legal notices.
   (C)   All signs not visible from off the property.
   (D)   Signs on vehicles or trailers, provided, however, signs on vehicles or
trailers used or intended to be used as on-premises signs are prohibited.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
§ 4-176 VIOLATIONS.
   Any owner or person otherwise in possession or control who violates any
provision of this article by doing any act prohibited or declared to be
unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance, an offense or misdemeanor
thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any provision, or who fails to
do any act when the provision declares the failure to be unlawful or to be an
offense or misdemeanor, or who violates any legal order or regulation made
pursuant to this article, is guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 per violation. Each day upon
which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 3215, passed 10-18-10)
ARTICLE 10: FEES
§ 4-180 FEES TO BELONGING TO CITY.
   All fees collected for electrical inspection and electrical permits and
building inspection and building permits and for all other inspections and
permits shall be collected and paid to the City Clerk to belong to the city.
(`90 Code, § 4-69)
ARTICLE 11: SWIMMING POOLS
§ 4-190 SUITABLE EFFECTIVE BARRIERS.
   Every person owning land on which there is situated a family swimming pool,
as defined herein, shall erect and maintain thereon an adequate suitable
effective barrier including, but not limited to fences, enclosures, walls or
other approved barriers either surrounding the property or pool area,
sufficient to make the pool inaccessible to small children. The barrier,
including gates therein, shall be not less than four feet above the outside
ground at all points and, provided further, that access steps or ladders are
capable of being rendered inaccessible by being removed or raised more than
four feet above the outside grade.
(`90 Code, § 4-70) (Ord. 2619, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2939, passed 3-19-91)
§ 4-191 FAMILY SWIMMING POOLS.
   Family swimming pools shall mean any and every pool of water any part of
which is more than 24 inches in depth or having a surface area of more than 150
square feet, on private property and shall include below ground and above
ground pools with the exception of streams, lakes and other natural bodies of
water, municipally-owned lakes and stock watering or other agricultural
purposes.
(`90 Code, § 4-71) (Ord. 2619, passed - -)
§ 4-192 UNLAWFUL ERECTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall construct, install, erect, locate or maintain any swimming
pool within the city limits, whether on public or private property, unless the
swimming pool is within an area completely enclosed or protected by a suitable
effective barrier.
(`90 Code, § 4-72) (Ord. 2619, passed - -)
§ 4-193 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, construct or install a swimming pool within the
city limits, whether on public or private property without first obtaining a
permit therefore from the City Clerk or his or her designated representative.
   (B)   Before the City Clerk or his or her designated representative shall
issue a permit to erect, construct or install a swimming pool, he or she shall
require that one of the following requirements be met:
      (1)   A suitable effective barrier is included as part of the
construction of the swimming pool project.
      (2)   The owner of the swimming pool or his or her agent shall certify
that a suitable effective barrier will be provided before the swimming pool is
in operation.
(`90 Code, § 4-73) (Ord. 2619, passed - -)
§ 4-194 FEES.
   A permit fee to erect, construct or install swimming pools is hereby levied.
The fee for the permit shall be determined by the City Council by motion or
resolution.
(`90 Code, § 4-74) (Ord. 2619, passed - -)
§ 4-195 RETROACTIVITY.
   The lack of an enclosure or protective barrier is hereby deemed to be a
serious safety and health hazard. Therefore, the provisions of this article
shall be retroactive and shall apply to all swimming pools from and after the
effective date of this article.
(`90 Code, § 4-74.1) (Ord. 2619, passed - -)
§ 4-196 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates provision of this article or fails to comply
therewith or with any of the requirements thereof or who erects, constructs or
installs a swimming pool in violation of a detail statement or plans submitted
and approved thereunder or a permit or certificate issued thereunder shall be
guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in §
12-34 of this code.
   (B)   Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed as a
separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 4-71) (Ord. 2619, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2823, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
ARTICLE 12: HISTORIC PRESERVATION ORDINANCE
§ 4-210 TITLE.
   This article shall be known, cited, and referred to as the Historic
Preservation Ordinance.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-211 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide for the preservation, protection,
enhancement, restoration, rehabilitation, renovation and perpetuation of
certain improvements, building exteriors, structures, signs, objects, sites and
areas within the city for the following reasons:
   (A)   To preserve, protect, enhance and perpetuate certain resources which
reflect elements of cultural, artistic, social, economic, political,
architectural, engineering, historic or other heritage by reviewing the
appropriateness of proposed alterations to existing resources, by controlling
indiscriminate erection of new improvements and by fostering proper maintenance
and repair of existing resources;
   (B)   To promote the continuing use of such resources within the city,
thereby serving as a stimulus and support to business and industry;
   (C)   To promote and encourage continued private ownership and utilization
of resources to the end that the objectives listed herein can be attained;
   (D)   To encourage preservation of historic neighborhoods or structures; and
   (E)   To foster, preserve and encourage harmonious architectural styles and
signage, reflecting the distinct phases of the history of the city.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-212 AREA OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   This article shall apply to the following described property and the
historic districts, landmarks, landmark sites and areas as may be added by the
Historic Preservation Commission hereafter within the corporate limits of the
city and subject to approval of the City Council. Boundaries of the Guthrie
Capitol Townsite Historic District are indicated on the map identified as
Exhibit A and on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   District Boundaries Capitol Townsite Historic District: all of Lots
13-115, Block 31, all of Blocks 43, 44, 45, 46, 47 and 49, all of Lots 1-12,
Block 54, all of Blocks 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60 and 61, all of Lots 9-20, Block
68, all of Blocks 70 and 71 in that part of the city known as Guthrie Proper
and also, the south 16-2/3 feet of Lot 13, all of Lots 14-18, Block 33, all of
Lots 7-12, Block 34, all of Block 36, all of Lots 13-24, Block 46, all of Lots
13-24, Block 47, all of Lots 13-24, Block 48, all of Blocks 49, 50, 51 and 52,
all of Lots 1-12, Block 61, all of Lots 1-14, Block 62, all of Blocks 63 and
64, all of Lots 9-14, Block 65, all of Lots 7-18, Block 77 in that part of the
city known as East Guthrie Townsite and also, that part of the northeast
quarter of Section 17, T16N, R2W, Logan County, Oklahoma known as Mineral Wells
Park.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-213 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADAPTIVE USE. The restrained alteration of a historical or architectural
resource to accommodate uses for which the resource was not originally
constructed, but in such a way so as to maintain the general historical and
architectural character.
   ADVERSELY AFFECT. Negatively changing the quality of the historical,
architectural, or cultural significance of a resource, or the characteristics
that qualify the resource as historically important.
   ALTERATION. Any construction or change of the exterior of a building,
object, site, or structure. For buildings, objects, sites or structures,
alteration shall include, but is not limited to, the changing of roofing or
siding materials; changing, eliminating, or adding doors, door frames, windows,
window  frames, shutters, fences, railings, porches, balconies, signs, or other
ornamentation; the changing of paint color; regrading; fill; imploding or other
use of dynamite. ALTERATION shall not include ordinary repair and maintenance.
   ARCHITECTURAL RESOURCES. Districts, structures, buildings, monuments, sites,
and landscaping that possess local interest or artistic merit, or which are
particularly representative of their class or period, or represent achievements
in architecture, engineering technology, design, or scientific research and
development.
   ARCHITECTURAL STYLE. A type of architecture distinguished by special
characteristics of structure and ornament and often related in time; also, a
general quality of distinctive character.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The official document issued by the Historic
Preservation Commission approving any application for alteration, construction,
reconstruction, relocation, or demolition of any structure or site designated
under the authority of this article.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION. The official document issued by the Historic
Preservation Commission stating that the applicant has implemented a project in
accordance with the issued certificate of appropriateness and any conditions
thereof.
   CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP. The official document issued by the
Historic Preservation Commission establishing unreasonable economic hardship
for the applicant.
   CLUSTER. A group of cultural resources with compatible buildings, objects or
structures geographically or thematically relating to and reinforcing one
another through design, setting, materials, workmanship, congruency and
association.
   COMPATIBILITY. Capable of existing together in harmony.
   CONSTRUCTION. The act of adding an addition to an existing building or
structure or the erection of a new principal or accessory building or structure
on a lot or property.
   CONTRIBUTING RESOURCE. A resource in an historic district or cluster that
contributes to the district’s or cluster’s historical significance through
location, design, setting, materials, workmanship and association, and which
shall be afforded the same considerations as landmarks.
   DEMOLITION. Any act or process that destroys or razes in whole or in part a
building, object, site, or structure, or permanently impairs its structural
integrity.
   DESIGN GUIDELINES. Standards adopted by the Historic Preservation Commission
intended for use by the Commission, property owners and tenants to ensure that
rehabilitation and new construction respect the character of designated
properties or districts.
   ECONOMIC RETURN. A profit or capital appreciation from use or ownership of a
building, object, site or structure that accrues from investment or labor.
   ELEVATION. A “head-on” drawing of a building facade or object, without any
allowance for perspective. An ELEVATION drawing will be in a fixed proportion
to the measurement on the actual building.
   EMERGENCY INSPECTION. An on-site examination of work in progress conducted
by city staff, the purpose of which is to ensure that work in progress is
authorized and/or conforms to the conditions of an issued certificate of
appropriateness.
   EXTERIOR. All outside surfaces of any building.
   FACADE. The face or exterior surface of a building.
   GENERAL RESOURCE. A building, object, site or structure which does not add
to a district’s or cluster’s sense of time and place and historical development
but may contribute in other aspects, such as contributing to the street wall.
   GOOD REPAIR. A condition which not only meets minimum standards of health
and safety, but which also guarantees continued attractiveness, continued
structural soundness, and continued usefulness.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A geographically definable area as designated by
ordinance which may contain one or more significant landmarks and which may
have within its boundaries other properties or structures, while not of such
historic and/or architectural significance to be designated as landmarks,
nevertheless contribute to the overall visual characteristics of the district
and which merits designation for its historical and architectural significance
and value.
   HISTORIC RESOURCES. Sites, districts, structures, buildings, or monuments
that represent facets of history in the locality, state or nation; places where
significant historical or unusual events occurred; places associated with a
personality or group important to the past.
   INFILL CONSTRUCTION. Construction designed to occupy a vacant parcel of land
within a developed area.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, place, parking facility, fence, wall,
sign, work of art or other object, the addition or deletion of which
constitutes a physical betterment of real property, or any part of such
betterment of real property.
   LANDMARK. A prominent building or feature officially designated as having
special status and protection.
   LANDMARK SITE. A parcel or part thereof on which is or was situated a
landmark.
   MAJOR FACADE CHANGES. Any act that has the potential to significantly alter
the appearance of a resource.
   MASS. The physical volume or bulk of a property or properties.
   MATERIALS. The physical characteristics which create the aesthetic and
structural appearance of the resource, including but not limited to a
consideration of the texture and style of the components and their
combinations, such as brick, stone, shingle, wood, concrete or stucco.
   MINIMUM MAINTENANCE NOTICE. Official letter or memorandum sent by mail or
delivered to property owners for the purpose of informing them that their
property requires maintenance in order to comply with the minimum maintenance
provisions of this article.
   MINIMUM MAINTENANCE PLAN. A description of the activities to be implemented
in order to maintain a resource to the point where it is sound and
weatherproof.
   OBJECT. A material thing of functional, aesthetic, cultural, historical, or
scientific value that may be, by nature or design, movable yet related to a
specific setting or environment.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE OR REPAIR. Any work for which a building permit or any
other city permit or certificate is not required and where the purpose of such
work is stabilization, and further, where such work will not noticeably change
the exterior appearance of the resource. Any work not satisfying all of the
above requirements shall not be considered ordinary maintenance and repair.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign intended to be used for a period greater than 30
days. Signs will be considered permanent when changes in materials or message
maintain overall appearance.
   PRESERVATION. The act or process of applying measures to sustain the
existing form, integrity, and materials of a building or structure, and the
existing form and vegetative cover of a site. It may include initial
stabilization work, where necessary, as well as ongoing maintenance of the
historic building materials.
   PROPERTY. A parcel of land and any improvements thereon.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability company
or corporation holding title to real estate that is either a landmark, a
landmark site or within an historic district, or being considered for such
status.
   PROPORTION. The relative physical sizes within and between buildings and
building components.
   RECONSTRUCTION. The act or process of reassembling, reproducing, or
replacing by new construction, the form, detail, and appearance of a property
and its setting as it appeared at a particular period of time by means of the
removal of later work, or by the replacement of missing earlier work, or by
reuse of original materials.
   REHABILITATION. The act or process of returning a property to a state of
utility through repair, remodeling, or alteration that makes possible an
efficient contemporary use while preserving those  portions or, features of the
property that are significant to its historical, architectural, and cultural
values.
   RELOCATION. Any change of the location of a building, object or structure
from its present setting or to another setting.
   RENOVATION. The act or process of returning a property to a state of utility
through repair or alteration that makes possible a contemporary use.
   RESOURCE. A building, object, site or structure.
   RESTORATION. The act or process of accurately recovering the form and
details of a property and its setting as it appeared at a particular period of
time by means of the removal of later work or by the replacement of missing
earlier work.
   RHYTHM. A regular pattern of shapes including, but not limited to, windows,
doors, projects, and heights, within a building, structure, or monument, or a
group of same.
   SANDWICH BOARD SIGN. Any sign not affixed to a structure or to the ground.
   SCALE. The harmonious proportion of parts of a building, structure, or
monument to one another and to the human figure.
   SETBACK. The distance from a given property line, established by the city’s
zoning ordinance, where a property owner is authorized to construct an
improvement.
   SETTING. The surrounding environment of a resource, including other
buildings, structures, site features, landscaping and streets, which
contributes to the aesthetic quality of the historic or architectural resource.
   SIGN. A structure which consists of a device, light, letter, word, model,
banner, pennant, trade flag, logo, insignia, or representation which
advertises, directs, or announces a use conducted, goods, products, services,
or facilities available, excluding window displays or merchandise.
   SIGN GUIDELINES. Standards adopted by the Historic Preservation Commission
intended for use by the Commission, property owners and tenants to ensure
design and placement of permanent signs that respect the character of
designated properties.
   SIGNAGE, PROMOTIONAL. Signage which indicates a sale or promotion.
   SIGNAGE, TEMPORARY AND BANNER. Signage that is put up for a maximum of 30
days, at which time permanent signage is approved and installed.
   SIGNIFICANT CHARACTERISTICS OF THE RESOURCE. Those characteristics which are
important to or expressive of the historical, architectural, or cultural
quality and integrity of the resource and its setting, and which include, but
are not limited to, building material, detail, height, mass, proportion,
rhythm, scale, setback, setting, shape, street accessories, and workmanship.
   SITE. The location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic
occupation or activity, or a building, structure, or cluster, whether standing,
ruined, or vanished, where the location itself maintains historical value
regardless of the value of any existing structure.
   SPECIAL MERIT. A new building, object, site or structure having significant
benefits to the city by virtue of exemplary architecture, specific features of
land planning, or social, cultural or other benefits having a high priority for
community services.
   STABILIZATION. The act or process of applying measures designed to
reestablish a weather- resistant enclosure and the structural stability of an
unsafe or deteriorated property while maintaining the essential form as it
exists at present.
   STOP WORK ORDER. A written notice from the city that work on any building,
structure or site is being implemented contrary to the provisions of this
article, contrary to the conditions of an approved certificate of
appropriateness, or in an unsafe and dangerous manner.
   STREET ACCESSORIES. Those sidewalk or street fixtures which provide
cleanliness, comfort, direction, or safety, and are compatible in design to
their surroundings, and include, but are not limited to, trash receptacles,
benches, signs, lights, hydrants, and landscaping, including but not limited to
trees, shrubbery and planters.
   STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY. The state of being unimpaired; sound.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected.
   UNREASONABLE ECONOMIC HARDSHIP. An economic burden imposed upon the owner
which is unduly excessive and prevents a realization of a reasonable rate of
return upon the value of his property.
   UNUSUAL AND COMPELLING CIRCUMSTANCES. Those uncommon and extremely rare
instances, factually detailed, which would warrant a Commission recommendation
for relief due to the evidence presented.
   VISUAL FACADE CHANGES. Any modification to the appearance of a facade caused
by alteration, construction or demolition.
   WORKMANSHIP. Skill as a workman, craftsmanship or artistry or evidence of
this skill in something produced.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01; Am. Ord. 3173, passed 3-21-06)
§ 4-214 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the city a Historic Preservation
Commission, which shall be referred to hereinafter as the Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of seven appointed members. When
possible, the members shall include persons with training or experience in a
preservation-related profession. Any vacancy, whether from expiration of term,
resignation, or removal shall be filled as follows: Members shall be appointed
by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council. Available positions shall be
advertised in the newspaper, and interested citizens shall be given the
opportunity to complete an application. Appointments shall be made from the
list of applicants available at the time of the appointment. Where such member
is required to have special qualifications, such vacancy shall be filled in the
manner herein prescribed with a person having such qualifications. Appointed
members of the Commission shall be comprised as follows:
      (1)   Two members of the County Historical Society;
      (2)   One member of the Municipal Planning Commission;
      (3)   Two persons having special knowledge or background of the history
and architecture of the city; and
      (4)   Two persons who own property that is designated as a landmark or a
landmark site or located within a historic district as defined herein.
   (C)   City Council shall appoint one of its members to serve as an ex-
officio member of the Commission.
   (D)   Members of the Commission appointed under division(B)(3) need not be
residents of the city although preference will be given to those residing in
the city.
   (E)   All members shall serve without compensation.
   (F)   The appointment of members to the Historic Preservation Commission
shall be for three years.
   (G)   The Commission shall elect a chair and a vice-chair during the first
meeting in January each year.
   (H)   A vacancy shall be deemed to exist when a Commission member dies,
resigns, fails to attend three consecutive or four cumulative meetings in one
year, is convicted of a felony or is otherwise legally disqualified, or upon
the expiration of the member’s term. Council members may also remove Commission
members in accordance with §
2-21 of the City Charter.
   (I)   The Commission shall have the authority to perform all of the duties
hereinafter enumerated and provided in this article.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-215 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   The Commission established pursuant to this article shall have the following
powers, duties and responsibilities:
   (A)   To establish such rules and procedures as are necessary for the
efficient conduct of the business of the Commission;
   (B)   To adopt specific guidelines for selection of landmarks, landmark
sites and historic districts, which guidelines shall be adopted subject to the
approval of the City Council;
   (C)   To recommend to the City Council properties for designation as a
landmark or landmark site or a historic district;
   (D)   To regulate new construction within a historic district and exterior
alterations to landmarks, landmark sites and properties within defined historic
districts in the manner described herein;
   (E)   To regulate the design and placement of all permanent signs within a
historic district and on landmarks and landmark sites;
   (F)   To recommend to Council specific guidelines to use in making decisions
for approval or denial of certificates of appropriateness;
   (G)   To recommend to City Manager to direct staff to stop work on projects
that do not have the proper authorization by the Commission or do not conform
to the conditions of issued certificates of appropriateness;
   (H)   To prepare and place on landmarks and landmark sites a suitable plaque
or other marker declaring that such resource is a designated landmark. Such
plaque shall be installed with the owner’s permission and shall contain
information deemed appropriate by the Commission. Any expenditure of funds
provided for this purpose by the city shall be subject to the approval of the
City Council;
   (I)   To request funds from City Council and other funding organizations
through the city and to recommend expenditure of such funds in order to
accomplish the stated purpose of the Commission;
   (J)   To recommend to City Council specific application fees and other
related fees;
   (K)   To prepare and present an annual report on the Commission’s activities
to City Council;
   (L)   To recommend to City Council for contracting with the county, state or
federal government or any agency or division of the governments or with any
other organization, which contract is necessary or advisable for the
accomplishment of the goals of the Commission;
   (M) To cooperate with federal, state, county and local governments in the
pursuit of the objectives of historic preservation and to work with city
departments on projects or departmental plans that have the potential to impact
historic resources;
   (N)   To promote and conduct educational and interpretive programs on
historic properties;
   (O)   To conduct a survey of local properties within the boundaries of the
city complying with all applicable standards and criteria of the Oklahoma
Statewide Survey undertaken by the State Historic Preservation Office;
   (P)   To establish and maintain a detailed inventory of property within
historic districts and of landmarks and landmark sites within the city;
   (Q)   To prepare a historic preservation plan for the city and to prepare a
historic preservation chapter for inclusion in the city’s comprehensive plan;
   (R)   To retain consultants and conduct additional studies as deemed
desirable or necessary by the Commission, except that any expenditure of city
funds or of any funds administered by the city, shall be subject to the prior
approval of the City Council;
   (S)   To perform all other duties, responsibilities and other functions
enumerated in this article.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-216 LANDMARK DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Any property within the city may be designated as a landmark or
landmark site and thus be covered by this article if the City Council
determines, pursuant to procedures set forth in this section, that the property
meets the following criteria:
      (1)   It exemplifies or reflects elements of the cultural, social,
economic, engineering, political, or other heritage of the city;
      (2)   It has any special aesthetic or artistic interests or values;
      (3)   It is identified with any historic persons or important events in
the history of the city, the state, Indian Territory and Oklahoma Territory, or
the nation in general;
      (4)   It embodies distinguished architectural characteristics which are
valuable for a study of any period, style, or method of construction; or if it
is a valuable example of the use of native or indigenous materials or
craftsmanship; or
      (5)   It is representative of a notable work of a master builder,
designer, or architect.
   (B)   Landmarks and landmark sites shall be designated in the following
manner:
      (1)   Any owner of a proposed landmark or landmark site may request such
designation by submitting an application to the Commission. In the event the
Commission or the City Council believes such a designation to be appropriate,
they may also initiate such proceedings before the Commission.
      (2)   The Commission shall conduct or cause to be conducted a written
study of the proposed designation based on the criteria described in this
section.
      (3)   The Commission shall schedule a public hearing for a date within 30
days of receipt of the study.
      (4)   Notice of the date, time and purpose thereof shall be in writing
and shall be filed with the Planning Department and the City Clerk. At least 15
days prior to the date of the public hearing, notice of the date, time, and
purpose thereof shall be given by mail to the property owner and advertised
five consecutive days in a daily newspaper of general circulation.
      (5)   Within 60 days of the date of the public hearing, the Commission
shall, in writing, make a recommendation to City Council, setting forth those
findings of fact which constitute the basis for its decision.
      (6)   The City Council within 30 days of receipt of the recommendations
of the Commission shall by ordinance approve the application or shall by motion
disapprove it in its entirety.
      (7)   Notice of the Council’s decision to approve or deny the application
for designation shall be given by mail to the property owner and published in a
daily newspaper of general circulation.
      (8)   The city may effect the amendment or rescission of any designation
of a landmark and landmark site in the same manner and procedure described in
this article for designation.
      (9)   In the event any application for designation is denied by the city,
no new application for such designation substantially in the form of the
previous application which was denied shall be made within 12 months subsequent
to the effective date of such denial, unless it can be shown that the
conditions under which such denial was made have substantially changed. In the
event any application for designation is approved by the city, no application
for rescission will be considered within six months subsequent to the effective
date of such approval.
      (10) No permit for any alteration, demolition or relocation involving the
property or properties in question shall be issued while the designation
process is in progress. Nor shall such property or properties in question be
afforded the privileges of designation until an ordinance has been approved by
the City Council.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-217 HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Any area within the city may be designated a historic district and
thus be covered by this article if the City Council determines, pursuant to
procedures set forth in this section, that the area possesses special cultural,
artistic, social, economic, political, architectural, engineering, or historic
significance to the city.
   (B)   The designation of historic districts shall be completed in the
following manner:
      (1)   Any owner of property within the proposed historic district may
request the designation of an historic area for ordinance protection by
submitting to the Commission an application for such designation. The
Commission or the City Council may initiate such proceedings before the
Commission on their own motion.
      (2)   The Commission shall conduct or cause to be conducted a written
study of the proposed designation based on the criteria described in this
section.
      (3)   The Commission shall schedule a public hearing for a date within 30
days of receipt of the study.
      (4)   Notice of the date, time and purpose thereof shall be in writing
and shall be filed with the Planning Department and the City Clerk. At least 15
days prior to the date of the public hearing, notice of the date, time, and
purpose thereof shall be given by mail to the applicant and to all the property
owners within the proposed historic district and advertised five consecutive
days in a daily newspaper of general circulation.
      (5)   Within 60 days of the date of the public hearing, the Commission
shall, in writing, make a recommendation to City Council, setting forth those
findings of fact which constitute the basis for its decision.
      (6)   The City Council within 30 days of receipt of the recommendations
of the Commission shall by ordinance approve the application or shall by
ordinance modify the application or shall by motion disapprove it in its
entirety.
      (7)   Notice of the Council’s decision to approve, modify or deny the
application for designation shall be given by mail to the applicant and to all
the property owners within the proposed historic district and published in a
daily newspaper of general circulation.
      (8)   The city may effect the amendment or rescission of any designation
of a historic district in the same manner and procedure described in this
article for designation.
      (9)   In the event any application for designation is denied by the city,
no new application for such designation substantially in the form of the
previous application which was denied shall be made within six months
subsequent to the effective date of such denial, unless it can be shown that
the conditions under which such denial was made have substantially changed. In
the event any application for designation is approved by the city, no
application for rescission will be considered within six months subsequent to
the effective date of such approval.
      (10) No permit for any alteration, demolition or relocation involving the
property or properties in question shall be issued while the designation
process is in progress. Nor shall such properly or properties in question be
afforded the privileges of designation until an ordinance has been approved by
the City Council.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-218 ORDINARY MAINTENANCE OR REPAIR.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of the exterior of any landmark or property within a
historic district when the maintenance or repair does not involve a change in
design, material, or external appearance thereof.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-219 WORK REQUIRING REVIEW BY THE CITY.
   (A)   A Certificate of appropriateness is required before beginning the
process to apply or remove paint on any landmark or property within a historic
district, except when such work satisfies the requirements for ordinary
maintenance and repair as defined in §
4-218. Applications to apply or remove paint may be approved by staff as an
administrative approval. A list of all administrative approvals shall be
provided to the full Commission at its regular monthly meeting for its review.
   (B)   In the following instances, a certificate of appropriateness from the
Commission shall be required before the commencement of work upon any landmark,
landmark site or property within a historic district:
      (1)   Whenever such work requires a permit issued by the city and
involves work on the building exterior, except when such work satisfies
ordinary maintenance or repair as defined in §
4-218.
      (2)   Whenever such work includes the restoration, rehabilitation,
alteration, construction, reconstruction, excavation, relocation, or demolition
to the exterior of any resource that is listed as a landmark or landmark site
or is located within a historic district, except when such work satisfies all
the requirements for ordinary maintenance or repair as defined in §
4-218.
      (3)   Whenever such work includes permanent signs.
   (C)   The provisions of this article shall likewise apply to any resource
that is designated a landmark or a landmark site or located within a historic
district which is owned or leased by a public entity to the extent permitted by
law.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-220 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Applications for the construction, alteration, restoration or
removal of any sign, including sandwich board signs, affecting any property
within a historic district or any landmark or landmark site shall be
accompanied by the following materials:
         (a)   Elevation or photograph of the facade or site in question
showing placement of each proposed sign to scale;
         (b)   Detailed drawings of the proposed sign(s) showing sign
dimensions and design, size and type of lettering, proposed means of
illumination, materials, textures and colors; and
         (c)   Manufacturer’s paint samples of the proposed sign colors.
      (2)   All other applications for certificates of appropriateness shall be
accompanied by the following documents, when relevant. City staff and/or the
Commission will determine which documents are relevant to the application in
question.
         (a)   An elevation of all sides of the existing or proposed
improvement(s) which can be seen from a street or alley, to scale, with all
materials, textures and colors to be used identified and shown. All other
elements shall be shown, including light standards and fixtures, screens for
mechanical equipment or trash, meters and meter boxes and such other details as
may exist on an improvement.
         (b)   Samples of all materials, including paint chips of proposed
exterior colors.
         (c)   Photographs showing existing topography, vegetation,
improvements, and adjacent development and a site plan to scale indicating
proposed changes. The site plan shall indicate any construction that will
obstruct the view or vista from a public street or sidewalk, including but not
limited to satellite dishes and antennae.
         (d)   Drawings or photographs of non-stationary structures, amenities,
furniture or equipment to be placed upon parcels of public or private land
within a district or on a landmark site including but not limited to fences,
lighting standards, planters, benches, or vending machines.
         (e)   Copies of old photographs or historical records if available,
which pertain to the existing resource(s).
   (B)   General provisions and procedures.
      (1)   No permit for building, sign, demolition or house moving shall be
issued by the city for any resource located within a historic district or
designated as a landmark or landmark site until the application for such permit
has been reviewed by the Commission and a certificate of appropriateness
approved by the Commission. Electrical, plumbing, mechanical or any other
permit shall require a certificate of appropriateness only if the proposed work
will alter the exterior of a property within a historic district, landmark or
landmark site.
      (2)   When applying for such a permit, the applicant shall furnish one
copy of the application and required accompanying documents as defined in
division (A) to city staff no later than eight days prior to the proposed
hearing date. Any applicant may request a meeting with city staff for
consultation before submitting an application. City staff shall forward such
application with staff report and recommendations to the Commission no later
than five days before the Commission’s regularly scheduled meeting.
      (3)   Five days before the date of the public hearing, the city staff
shall publish the agenda for the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation.
At the hearing, the Commission shall receive testimony from all persons
interested in the application.
      (4)   Upon review of the application, the Commission shall determine
whether the proposed work is of a nature that will adversely affect any
historical or architectural resource and whether such work is appropriate and
consistent with the spirit and intent of this article. The Commission shall be
guided by the following criteria in determining approval or denial of
certificates of appropriateness:
         (a)   The purpose and intent of this article.
         (b)   The degree to which the proposed work may destroy or alter all
or part of a resource.
         (c)   The degree to which the proposed work would serve to isolate the
resource from its historical or architectural surroundings, or would introduce
visual, audible, vibratory, or polluting elements that are out of character
with the resource and its setting, or that adversely affect the physical
integrity of the resource.
         (d)   The compatibility of the building materials with the aesthetic
and structural appearance of the resource, including but not limited to the
consideration of texture, style, color, or the components and their
combinations of elements such as brick, stone, concrete, shingle, wood, or
stucco.
         (e)   The compatibility of the proposed design to the significant
characteristics of the resource, including but not limited to a consideration
of a harmony of materials, details, height, mass, proportion, rhythm, scale,
setback, shape, street accessories and workmanship.
         (f)   The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation.
         (g)   Sign guidelines and design guidelines recommended by the
Commission and adopted by the Council.
      (5)   The Commission may approve certificates of appropriateness subject
to certain conditions.
      (6)   No change shall be made to the approved work after issuance of a
certificate of appropriateness without resubmittal and approval thereof in the
same manner as provided above.
      (7)   If the Commission denies such a certificate of appropriateness, no
permit shall be issued. Within ten working days of the hearing, the Commission
shall mail to the applicant the reasons for such denial by citing the section
of the ordinance violated and may include suggestions regarding actions the
applicant might take to secure the approval of the Commission as to the
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness.
      (8)   Work performed pursuant to the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness shall conform to the requirements of such certificate. In the
event that such work is not in compliance upon inspection, the city shall issue
a stop work order.
      (9)   The city may make an emergency inspection of any unauthorized work
in progress. In the event that such work required but did not receive
Commission approval, the city shall issue a stop work order to be in effect
until a certificate of appropriateness has been properly applied for and
issued.
      (10)    The work sanctioned by the granting of the certificate of
appropriateness shall commence within six months of its issuance and shall be
completed within one year of its issuance. An extension of no more than 12
months may be granted upon proper contact from the applicant.
      (11)    The city shall inspect the work for completion at the end of the
time limit set forth by the Commission and issue a certificate of completion if
the work is in compliance with the certificate of appropriateness.
      (12)    It shall be a violation of this article to commence unauthorized
work or to disregard a stop work order.
      (13)    It is not the intent of this section to limit new construction to
any one period or architectural style, but to preserve the integrity of
historic and architectural resources. It is the intent of this section to
ensure compatibility of new construction by approving only new or infill
construction that is compatible to adjacent properties and approving only
additions to existing resources that are compatible with the property in
question.
      (14)    The Commission shall develop such guidelines as it may find
necessary to supplement the provisions of this section and to inform owners,
residents, and general public of those standards which are considered proper
for undertaking work relating to historic and architectural resources.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-221 MINIMUM MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   In order to prevent public hazards and to maintain the structural
integrity of the city’s historic resources, every owner or other person having
legal custody and control of a landmark, landmark site or property in a
historic district shall keep in good repair:
      (1)   All of the exterior portions of such resources including but not
limited to roofs, foundations or floors, and exterior walls including windows
and doors to ensure the resources are structurally safe.
      (2)   All interior portions thereof which, if not so maintained, may
cause or tend to cause the exterior portions to become public hazards or
structurally unsound.
   (B)   When a property is found to be in need of maintenance as specified in
(1) or (2) above, the city staff shall notify the owner(s) of the property. The
owner shall within 30 days present a proposed plan to the Commission describing
how and when the identified work will be completed. By owner request with
reasonable justification, the Commission may grant the owner a 30-day extension
in order to provide more time to prepare the plan. The Commission shall approve
the owner’s plan as presented or approve the plan subject to certain
conditions.
   (C)   Failure to respond to the minimum maintenance notice, to submit a
plan, or to implement the approved plan will constitute a violation of this
article.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-222 DEMOLITION OF A LANDMARK, A RESOURCE ON A LANDMARK SITE OR CONTRIBUTING
RESOURCE WITHIN A HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   Demolition of a landmark, other resource on a landmark site or
contributing resource within a historic district constitutes an irreplaceable
loss to the quality and character of the city. Therefore, no permit shall be
issued for demolition of a landmark, landmark site, or contributing resource
within a historic district unless the applicant demonstrates clear and
convincing evidence of unreasonable economic hardship as defined in §§
4-224 or unusual and compelling circumstances as defined in §
4-225.
   (B)   It will be a violation of this article to demolish any landmark, other
resource on a landmark site or any property located within a historic district
without a permit. If less than 50% of the property has been demolished at the
time work is stopped, the owner or person having legal custody or control of
the property in question will be required to rebuild the demolished portion of
the resource. If 50% or more of the resource in question has been demolished,
the owner or person having legal custody or control of the resource will be
fined in accordance with this article for each day of violation until the total
fines collected equal the greater of the following:
      (1)   The appraised value of the property on record with the County
Assessor’s Office at time of demolition; or
      (2)   The fair market value of the resource, as determined by the average
of at least two independent appraisals made by appraisers licensed by the
state.
   (C)   The fines collected will be used to further preservation efforts in
the city.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-223 NEGOTIATIONS PRIOR TO DEMOLITION APPLICATION HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever an application for a permit for the demolition of a landmark,
other resource on a landmark site or contributing resource within a historic
district shall be submitted to the Commission, the Commission shall not hold a
public hearing on the application for 60 days from the date the application is
received by the city. This time period is intended to permit city staff to
discuss the proposed demolition informally with the property owner, other city
officials, and preservation organizations to see if an alternative to
demolition can be found before a formal consideration of the application by the
Commission. City staff shall prepare a report to the Commission analyzing
alternatives to demolition, and request from other city departments or agencies
information necessary for the preparation of this report.
   (B)   If within this 60-day period either of the following two events shall
occur or be known to have occurred previous to application, the Commission may
defer hearing the application for six months and it shall be considered to have
been withdrawn by the applicant during such six-month period: the owner enters
into a binding contract for the sale of the property; approved arrangements are
made for the resource to be relocated to an approved new location. If within
the 60-day period neither of the two events summarized above shall have
occurred, the Commission will schedule a hearing on the demolition application
at its next regularly scheduled meeting following the expiration of the 60-day
period, shall request all knowledgeable parties to comment at the hearing on
the proposed demolition, and shall make its written recommendation within 30
days after hearing the request for demolition. The Commission may also secure
an engineer’s report on the state of repair and structural stability of the
resource for which an application to demolish has been filed. Such report shall
become part of the administrative record on the application.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-224 CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP.
   (A)   Application on forms prescribed by the Commission for certificate of
economic hardship may be made by an owner or his agent who has been denied a
certificate of appropriateness for major facade changes, new construction,
demolition or a minimum maintenance plan. When a claim of unreasonable economic
hardship is made due to the effect of this article, the owner must prove that
he cannot realize a reasonable return upon the value of this property or that
he cannot make reasonable use of his property. The public benefits obtained
from retaining the resource must be analyzed and duly considered by the
Commission.
   (B)   In determining the existence of an unreasonable economic hardship, the
Commission will base its decision on the information submitted by the applicant
and any other information that the Commission may deem relevant. The
deteriorated condition of a resource attributable to the owner’s failure to
provide proper maintenance over an extended period of time will not be
considered a relevant factor in evaluations of economic hardship. Hardship that
is attributable to a resource being allowed to deteriorate by past or current
owners will be considered self-imposed; restoration costs incurred to remediate
such neglect will not be considered. This provision will not be affected by any
transfer of ownership by means including, but not limited to, sale, inheritance
or gift.
   (C)   Applications for certificates of economic hardship shall be
accompanied by the following documents, when relevant. The Commission will
determine which documents are relevant to the application in question.
      (1)   An estimate of the cost of the proposed construction, alteration,
demolition, or removal and an estimate of any additional cost that would be
incurred to comply with the recommendations of the Commission for changes
necessary for the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness.
      (2)   The estimated market value of the property in its current
condition, after completion of the proposed construction, alteration,
demolition or removal, and after completion of work that would incorporate any
changes recommended by the Commission.
      (3)   The current fair market value of the property, as determined by the
average of at least two independent appraisals made by appraisers licensed by
the state.
      (4)   All appraisals obtained within the previous two years by the owner
or applicant in connection with his purchase, financing or ownership of the
property.
      (5)   Amount paid for the property, the date of purchase of the property
or other means of acquisition of title, such as by gift or inheritance, and the
party from whom purchased or otherwise acquired, including a description of the
relationship, if any, between the owner of record or applicant and the person
from whom the property was purchased, and any terms of financing between the
seller and buyer.
      (6)   Maintenance records for the property for the previous two years.
      (7)   Annual debt service, if any, for the previous two years.
      (8)   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any within the previous two years.
      (9)   Any consideration by the owner as to profitable adaptive uses for
the property.
      (10)    A report from a licensed engineer or architect in the state with
rehabilitation experience as to the soundness of any resources on the property
and their suitability for rehabilitation. Such engineer or architect shall be
pre-approved by the Commission.
      (11)    A description of the applicant’s plans for the property if
demolition or removal is approved and the appropriateness of same in relation
to the city’s zoning code and the current guidelines for new construction in a
historic district.
      (12)    Replacement plans for the property in question. Replacement plans
for this purpose will include, but shall not be limited to, preliminary
elevations and site plans.
      (13)    In addition, the owner may provide proof that the owner has the
financial ability to complete the replacement project. Providing such proof is
optional.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit all necessary materials at least 15 days
prior to the Commission meeting in order that staff may review and comment and/
or consult on the case. Staff and/or professional comment shall be forwarded to
the Commission for consideration and review and made available to the applicant
for consideration prior to the meeting.
   (E)   The Commission may require that an applicant furnish such additional
information that is relevant to its determination of unreasonable economic
hardship. The Commission or staff may also furnish additional information as
the Commission believes it relevant. The Commission shall also state which form
of financial proof it deems relevant and necessary to a particular case.
   (F)   In the event that any of the required information cannot be obtained
by the applicant, the applicant shall file a statement of the information which
cannot be obtained and shall describe reasons acceptable to the Commission why
such information cannot be obtained.
   (G)   After the application for certificate of economic hardship has been
submitted, the applicant shall have the opportunity to address the Commission
with regard to the case for economic hardship.
   (H)   The Commission shall review all of the evidence and information
required of any applicant for a certificate of economic hardship and make a
determination within 45 days of receipt of the application whether the denial
of a certificate of appropriateness has deprived, or will deprive, the owner of
the property of reasonable use of, or reasonable economic return on, the
property. If the Commission disapproves such certificate of economic hardship,
the applicant shall proceed with work only when issued a certificate of
appropriateness as provided in §
4-220. If the Commission approves such certificate of economic hardship, the
applicant and Commission shall agree on the work to be completed, and the
certificate of economic hardship shall be issued along with the certificate of
appropriateness with the necessary conditions specified.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-225 UNUSUAL AND COMPELLING CIRCUMSTANCES AND DEMOLITION OF A LANDMARK, A
RESOURCE ON A LANDMARK SITE OR CONTRIBUTING RESOURCE WITHIN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
   (A)   When an applicant fails to prove unreasonable economic hardship in the
case of a landmark, other resource on a landmark site or contributing resource
within a historic district, the applicant may provide to the Commission
additional information which may show unusual and compelling circumstances in
order to receive Commission recommendation for demolition of the landmark,
other resource on a landmark site or contributing resource within a historic
district.
   (B)   The Commission, using criteria set forth in this article, shall
determine whether unusual and compelling circumstances exist and shall be
guided in its decision in such instances by the following additional
considerations:
      (1)   The significance of the resource as defined in §§
4-216 and
4-217;
      (2)   The importance of the resource to the integrity of a historic
district, an area, or a cluster;
      (3)   The difficulty or the impossibility of reproducing such a resource
because of its design, texture, material, detail, or unique location;
      (4)   Whether the resource is one of the last remaining examples of its
kind in the neighborhood, the county, or the region;
      (5)   Whether there are definite plans for reuse of the property if the
proposed demolition is carried out, and what effect such plans will have on the
character of the surrounding area, as well as the economic impact of the new
development;
      (6)   Whether reasonable measures can be taken to save the resource from
further deterioration, collapse, arson, vandalism or neglect; and
      (7)   Whether the resource has become so damaged or dilapidated that it
is declared unsafe or dangerous by the city as provided for in §
4-230.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-226 CONDITIONS FOR RECOMMENDING APPROVAL OF A DEMOLITION PERMIT.
   (A)   The Commission shall be guided in its decision to approve a
certificate of appropriateness for demolition by balancing the cultural,
artistic, social, economic, political, architectural, engineering or historic
value of the property to be demolished against the special merit of the
proposed use of the property following demolition.
   (B)   Should the applicant for demolition of a landmark, other resource on a
landmark site or contributing resource within a historic district satisfy the
Commission that he will suffer an unreasonable economic hardship if a
demolition permit is not approved, such approval for a certificate of
appropriateness for demolition will be made.
   (C)   Should the applicant for demolition of a landmark, other resource on a
landmark site or contributing resource within a historic district fail to
demonstrate unreasonable economic hardship but succeed in demonstrating unusual
and compelling circumstances which dictate demolition of the property in
question, the Commission shall approve a certificate of appropriateness for
demolition.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-227 DEMOLITION OF GENERAL RESOURCES LOCATED IN AN HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   At the start of the application process, persons may submit evidence
that their building should be considered a general resource which would qualify
them for consideration by the Commission at its next meeting.
   (B)   In those cases in which the Commission finds that a property proposed
for demolition is located in an historic district, but is considered a general
resource in the district, the Commission shall reaffirm the evaluation of the
property as a general resource using criteria set forth in this article prior
to recommending approval of a demolition permit.
   (C)   The application for demolition of a general resource must be
accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   A description of the applicant’s plans for the property if
demolition is approved and the appropriateness of same in relation to the
city’s zoning code and the current guidelines for new construction in a
historic district; and
      (2)   Replacement plans for the property in question. Replacement plans
for this purpose will include but not be limited to preliminary elevations and
site plans.
   (D)   When the resource is determined to be a general resource, the
Commission shall not approve the application for demolition unless the property
owner agrees to minimum landscape and maintenance requirements as specified
under §
4-229 and all other city ordinances and codes.
   (E)   General resources that are approved for demolition must be demolished
in a manner that will ensure the continued integrity of existing contributing
resources. If infill construction is not part of the post-demolition plan,
measures must be taken to reestablish the street wall after demolition through
the use of fences, walls or vegetation, consistent with current guidelines for
new construction in a historic
district.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-228 OTHER DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   (A)   All applications for permits to demolish property not currently listed
as a landmark or a landmark site or located within a historic district shall be
reviewed for the purpose of determining whether or not the property may have
significance in accordance with the criteria found in §§
4-216 and
4-217.
   (B)   City staff shall make such determination within 15 days after receipt
of the completed application and shall notify the Commission in writing. If the
property is determined to have no significance in relation to the criteria in
§§
4-216 and
4-217, a demolition permit may be issued five days after the Commission has
been notified, provided such application otherwise complies with the provisions
of the demolition ordinance and all city code requirements and provided there
is no objection by any member of the Commission.
   (C)   If the property is determined by the city staff to have such
significance, staff shall make such information available to the Commission for
review and recommendation as to significance. If the Commission concurs with
city staff’s determination of the property’s significance, using criteria set
forth in §§
4-216 and
4-217, the Commission shall proceed promptly with the consideration of the
designation of the property in question as a landmark, landmark site or
historic district as specified in said sections.
   (D)   Upon such a recommendation by the Commission and approval by City
Council, issuance of any demolition permit shall be governed by the procedures
set forth in this article.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-229 TREATMENT OF SITE FOLLOWING DEMOLITION.
   Following the demolition or removal of a landmark, other resource on a
landmark site or any property located in an historic district, the owner or
other person having legal custody and control thereof shall remove all traces
of previous construction, including foundation; grade, level, sod and seed the
lot to prevent erosion and improve drainage; and repair at his own expense any
damage to public rights-of-way, including sidewalks, curbs, and streets, that
may have occurred in the course of removing the resource(s).
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-230 PUBLIC SAFETY HAZARDS AND EMERGENCY SECURING MEASURES.
   None of the provisions of this article shall be construed to prevent any
measures of construction, alteration, or demolition necessary to correct or
abate the unsafe or dangerous condition of any resource, other feature or part
thereof, where such condition has been declared unsafe or dangerous by the
city, and where the proposed measures have been declared necessary to correct
the said condition; provided, however, that only such work as is reasonably
necessary to correct the unsafe or dangerous condition may be performed
pursuant to this section. In the event any resource or other feature shall be
damaged by fire or other calamity, or by Act of God, to such an extent that in
the opinion of the aforesaid city it cannot reasonably be repaired and
restored, it may be removed in conformity with normal permit procedures and
applicable laws. The Commission shall work closely with the proper city
officials when an emergency arises, and it may schedule an emergency meeting to
act on work that is necessary.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-230A SIGNS.
   (A)   Neon signs.
      (1)   Neon signs may be permitted within the Historic District, by review
and approval of the Commission, as follows:
         (a)   Neon signs with the single word “open” shall be considered.
         (b)   Approved neon signs shall be installed on the inside (interior)
only.
         (c)   Lettering may be horizontal or vertical; however, the sign must
be rectangular in shape.
         (d)   Block style lettering only is allowed; no script shall be
allowed.
         (e)   The maximum size shall be 12 inches × 25 inches.
         (f)   Only one sign per address shall be allowed.
         (g)   No running or flashing lights or signs shall be allowed.
         (h)   Neon colors are limited to not more than two colors.
      (2)   Approved neon signs are not transferable from one address to
another.
   (B)   Promotional, temporary and banner signs.
      (1)   Promotional signage requirements. All promotional signage must
conform to Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01, codified in this chapter. The maximum
area of coverage is six square feet. A limit of one sign per building shall be
allowed for interior lots, corner lots may display two areas, one for the front
elevation as well as one for the side elevation. The font and colors used must
match the approved existing permanent signage.
      (2)   Temporary and banner signage requirements. All temporary and banner
signage must conform to Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01, codified in this chapter.
All temporary and banner signs are limited to one per building. Banner signs
may not exceed two feet by 25 feet in size.
      (3)   Promotional signage bond. No bond is required.
      (4)   Temporary and banner signage bond. A bond of $75 must be paid at
the time of request for temporary or banner signage. If the temporary or banner
signage is not taken down or replaced with the approved permanent signage
within 30 days, the bond will be forfeited. The Code Enforcement Office may
grant one extension, not to exceed 15 days if all appropriate fees have been
received.
   (C)   Freestanding banners/flags allowed. Freestanding horizontal flags/
banners are permitted within the “Historic District” with the following
regulations:
      (1)   The horizontal flags/banners may be attached to the building or on
a pole erected in the sidewalk. All freestanding horizontal flags/banners
erected in the sidewalk area shall be placed in a manner to not impede
pedestrian travel.
      (2)   Only one freestanding horizontal flag/banner per ground floor
business is allowed.
      (3)   The maximum size of any freestanding horizontal flag cannot exceed
36 inches by 60 inches and shall not exceed eight feet in height.
      (4)   Vertical freestanding feather flags or any type of free standing
vertical flag/banner is prohibited.
(Ord. 3127, passed 1-20-04; Am. Ord. 3173, passed 3-21-06; Am. Ord. 3320,
passed 1-7-2020)
§ 4-231 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any action of the Commission may be appealed to the City Council.
   (B)   Any interested person may appeal by filing a notice of appeal with the
City Council not later than ten days after the written decision of the
Commission has been filed with the city. Upon receipt of the notice of appeal
and applicable fee(s), the City Council shall schedule a public hearing to be
conducted not later than 30 days after the notice of appeal is filed, and shall
render its decision within 30 days of the hearing date.
   (C)   The City Council’s consideration of an appeal of a Commission decision
shall be based upon:
      (1)   The record established in the Commission’s consideration of the
matter in question; and
      (2)   The testimony and evidence presented in the public hearing provided
in subsection (2) above.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C), the City Council may remand any matter
to the Commission for reconsideration and/or rehearing.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-232 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   The City Attorney may maintain an action for injunctive relief to restrain
or enjoin or to cause the correction or removal of any violation of this
article, or for a permanent injunction in an appropriate case.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
§ 4-233 VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any part or provision of this article shall be
guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided
in §
12-34 of this code. Each day of continuing violation may be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 3075, passed 3-20-01)
ARTICLE 13: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 4-245 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the State of Oklahoma has
in 11 O.S. §§ 41-47, as amended, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt ordinances designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma, ordains the following, to become
effective immediately.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this article to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expanse of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this article uses the following methods:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 3214, passed 9-21-10)
§ 4-246 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this article
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this article its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include but are not
limited to garages and storage sheds.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within the city
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or 1% chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BFE. Base flood elevation.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the Floodplain Administrator which
authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in accordance with this
article.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built, in the case of a building
in Zones AE, A, and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
flood up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones AE, A, and X,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of flood waters.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as “existing structures.”
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before August 4,1972.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIRM. Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. An official map of the city on which FEMA has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
applicable to the city.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by FEMA for the city
which contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base flood, as
well as the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within the city subject to a special flood hazard and the extent  of
the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane
tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood
modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
standards.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by
the City Council to administer and implement laws, ordinances and regulations
relating to the management of floodplains.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of flood).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances (such as floodplain, grading and erosion control regulations and
ordinances) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A FLOODWAY is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in §
4-247(B). A FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
flood waters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 CFR Section 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, means
the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the city’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, means
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
For floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by the City Council, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the Floodplain Board.
   OWRB. The Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Public Law 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures that have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic
structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the Board of Adjustments to a person from the
terms of this article when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary
hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a
manner otherwise prohibited by this article. For full requirements see 44 CFR
Section 60.6.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these flood damage prevention regulations.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 3214, passed 9-21-10)
§ 4-247 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this article applies. These flood damage prevention
regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and engineering report
entitled, The Flood Insurance Study for Logan County, Oklahoma and Incorporated
Areas dated September 29, 2010, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be apart of this
article.
   (C)   Establishment of development permit. A development permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of these floodplain
management regulations.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered,
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this article
and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This article is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this article and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this article,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer or liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this article is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by man-
made or natural causes. This article does not imply that land outside the areas
of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This article shall not create liability on the part
of the city or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this article or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder.
(Ord. 3214, passed 9-21-10)
§ 4-248 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The City Council
designates the Chief Building Inspector (or designee) as Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this article and
other appropriate sections of National Flood Insurance Program regulations in
44 CFR pertaining to floodplain management.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties
and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601 -
1618, as amended.
      (2)   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this article.
      (4)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval are required.
      (5)   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions).
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the FEMA.
      (7)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      (8)   Shall require the developer/applicant to determine and provide the
base flood elevation on a FEMA elevation certificate as well as other data as
required in order to administer the provisions of §
4-249.
      (9)   When a floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zone AE as
delineated on the Logan County FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the city.
      (10)   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the city, determine if the residential and nonresidential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement.
      (11)   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the City Council.
      (12)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of this article.
   (C)   Permit procedures.
      (1)   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; and
         (b)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this article and the
following relevant factors:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (b)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (c)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (d)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (e)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (f)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         (g)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         (h)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (i)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
         (j)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator or Board of Adjustments, as
applicable, may approve certain development in Zones A or AE delineated on the
Logan County FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood
by more than one foot, provided that the applicant for the development permit
in that case first complies with 44 CFR Section 65.12.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustments may grant variances for uses which do
not satisfy the requirements of the Oklahoma Floodplain Management Act or this
article, if the applicant for the variance presents adequate proof that: (i)
compliance with this article will result in an arbitrary and unreasonable
taking of property without sufficient benefit or advantage to the people; and
(ii) satisfies the pertinent provisions of this division (D). However, no
variance shall be granted where the effect of the variance will be to permit
the continuance of a condition which unreasonably creates flooding hazards.
         (b)   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the Oklahoma Floodplain
Management Act or by other laws of the state.
         (c)   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than
20 years.
         (d)   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the
Board of Adjustments, accompanied by a filing fee of $25.
         (e)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in division (C)(2) and provisions
of this division (D) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
         (f)   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the
base flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the Mayor or the City
Council which states that: (i) the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate
with the increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built
lower than the base flood elevation; and (ii) such construction below the base
flood level increases risks to life and property.
         (g)   At such time as the Board of Adjustments deems the petition
ready for notification to the public, the Board of Adjustments shall schedule a
hearing and direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of
general circulation in Logan County at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
         (h)   The Board of Adjustments shall conduct the hearing and make
determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of this division
(D). The Board of Adjustments shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the
equities involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to
the public at large when determining whether the variance shall be granted.
         (i)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances;
and
            4.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
         (j)   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this division (D)
and the intent of this article, the Board of Adjustments may attach such
conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
purposes and objectives stated in §
4-245(C).
         (k)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any
variance issued by the Board of Adjustments shall be sent by the Floodplain
Administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within 15 days after issuance of the
variance.
      (2)   Special provisions.
         (a)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation
or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this article.
         (b)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         (c)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
         (d)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use, provided that:
            1.   The criteria of divisions (D)(1)(e), (D)(1)(i), (D)(2)(b), and
(D)(2)(c) of this section are met; and
            2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety.
(Ord. 3214, passed 9-21-10)
§ 4-249 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      (1)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (4)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazards the
following provisions are required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this
division is satisfied.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one foot
above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect,
or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the Floodplain Administrator
that the standard of this division is satisfied.
      (3)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
      (4)   Manufactured homes. Require that all manufactured homes to be
placed anywhere within the city in Flood Zones A and/or AE on the Logan County
FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage
and have the bottom of the I-beam elevated at least one foot above the base
flood elevation. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must
be elevated and anchored to a permanent foundation to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces. The home
shall be installed by a licensed installer according to Oklahoma state law and
compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A and AE on the Logan County FIRM either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements of §
4-248(C), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes
in division (B)(4) of this section.
         A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels
or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      (6)   Accessory structure. Accessory structures to be placed on sites
within Zones A and AE on the Logan County FIRM shall comply with the following:
         (a)   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
         (b)   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited
storage;
         (c)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include but are not limited to working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
         (d)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must
be elevated to or above the BFE;
         (e)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters;
         (f)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential and constructed with flood-resistance materials;
         (g)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement;
         (h)   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
         (i)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
         (j)   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures.
   (C)   Standards for subdivisions.
      (1)   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located
in Zones A and AE which is 51 or more lots or greater than five acres shall
generate the base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
      (2)   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
      (3)   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
   (D)   Floodways. The following provisions shall apply to floodways:
      (1)   Encroachments, including but not limited to fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development are prohibited within the
adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the city during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (D)(1) of this section, above is satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of this section.
      (3)   The city may permit encroachments within the adopted floodway that
would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided that the
applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 CFR Section 65.12.
   (E)   Severability. If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this
article is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then said holding shall in no way affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this article.
(Ord. 3214, passed 9-21-10)
§ 4-250 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   The City Council establishes the following fee schedule not to exceed $500
for any one service:
   (A)   Notice of intent fee: $25 maximum
   (B)   Floodplain development permit application review: $100
   (C)   Floodplain development permit fee: $25
   (D)   Inspection fee, per inspection: $25
(Ord. 3214, passed 9-21-10)
§ 4-251 PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this article
and other applicable regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate or other certifications required in this article is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Violation of the provisions of this article by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this article or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500 for each violation, and in
addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the City Council or the City Attorney from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 3214, passed 9-21-10)
ARTICLE 14: OIL AND GAS WELLS
§ 4-265 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   Whereas the imprudent operation of an oil and gas facility can constitute a
menace to the public health, safety and welfare of the city, it is the intent
and purpose of this article that oil and gas operations be reasonably regulated
for the public good.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
Cross-reference:
   Liquified petroleum gas, see §§
4-70 et seq.
§ 4-266 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   All technical or oil and gas industry words or phrases used herein and
not specifically defined herein shall have that meaning customarily
attributable thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas industry.
   ABANDONED WELL. Any well inside the city limits for which city bonds,
insurance requirements or annual inspection fees have not been kept current; or
which does not have on file State Corporation Commission Form 1003A which
allows wells to remain shut-in; those wells which are not exempt from plugging
under State Corporation Commission rules; or a well which has not had
operations for one year, except that for purposes of §
4-268. No filing fees shall be required for a previously drilled well which is
an ABANDONED WELL because it had no operations for one year.
   ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION. The raising to the surface of the earth, by means
other than natural flow, petroleum or natural gas.
   CITY. The City of Guthrie, Oklahoma.
   CORPORATION COMMISSION. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission.
   DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE. Any chemical, salt water, oil field brine, waste oil,
waste emulsified oil, basic sediment, mud or injurious substances produced or
used in the drilling, development, producing, transportation, refining and
processing of oil, gas or condensate.
   ENHANCED RECOVERY.  An operation by which fluid or energy is introduced into
a source of supply for the purpose of facilitating recovery therefrom.
   NATURAL PRODUCTION. The raising to the surface of the earth, by natural
flow, petroleum or natural gas.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, trust,
cooperative or other type of organization.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom is issued a permit or permits under the terms
of this article.
   PLUGGED AND ABANDONED WELL. Any well plugged and abandoned in compliance
with municipal and/or Corporation Commission regulations at time of plugging.
   POLLUTION. The contamination or other alteration of the physical, chemical
or biological properties of any natural waters of the city, or the discharge of
any liquid, gaseous or solid substance into any water of the city as will or is
likely to create a nuisance or render the waters harmful or detrimental or
injurious to public health, safety or welfare; to domestic, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, recreational or other beneficial uses; or to
livestock, animals or aquatic life.
   PRESSURE MAINTENANCE. An operation by which gas, water or other fluids are
injected into an oil or gas reservoir to maintain pressure or retard pressure
decline therein for the purpose of facilitating recovery therefrom, and which
has been approved by the Corporation Commission after notice and hearing.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma, its branches, departments, agencies, boards or
the officers thereof.
   WATER or WATERS OF THE CITY. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage systems
and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface and underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the city or any portion thereof.
   WELL. Unless specifically qualified, any hole or holes or bore or bores, to
any depth for the purpose of producing and recovering any oil, gas or liquified
matter or for the injection or disposal of any of the foregoing.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-267 PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person acting for himself or
herself or acting as agent, servant, employee, subcontractor or independent
contractor of any other person, to commence to drill an original well or re-
enter any abandoned well or plugged and abandoned well within this city, or to
work upon or assist in any way in the production or operation of any well,
without a drilling permit having first been issued by the authority of the City
Manager or his or her designee in accordance with this article.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-268 APPLICATION AND FILING FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a permit to drill an original well or to re-
enter an abandoned well or plugged and abandoned well shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant or by some person duly authorized to sign same on his
or her behalf, and it shall be filed with the City Manager or his or her
designee and be accompanied by a filing fee of $3,500. No application shall
request a permit to drill more than one well. The application shall contain
full information required by the City Manager or his or her designee, including
the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant and date of application;
      (2)   Where applying for a proposed original well:
         (a)   A map of the drill site and proposed surface facilities,
including thereon the location of the proposed well, and distance therefrom to
all existing dwelling houses, buildings or other structures designated for the
occupancy of human beings or animals within a 1,000-foot radius of the well
bore, and the location of all existing oil, gas or fresh water wells within the
1,000-foot tract; and
         (b)   The names of the mineral, surface and lease owners.
      (3)   A copy of the approved drilling or re-entry permit from the
Corporation Commission and a copy of the staking plat.
      (4)   A drilling prognosis, on city application forms, to specify in
detail the amount, weight and size of conductor casing, surface casing and
production casing and the procedure to be used for cementing each; (New casing
is to be used for surface casing. New or pre-approved electronically inspected
used production casing, meeting API 5CT specifications for new casing is
required. Plugging procedures to be used in the event production is not
established shall also be specified.)
      (5)   A statement of the provisions for water for the drilling rig, from
private pond, stream or city fire hydrant and a copy of approved water
resources board permit; (A flush meter is required on a city fire hydrant which
can be obtained from the utility office with an appropriate deposit.)
      (6)   The name and address of the person within the state upon whom
service of process upon applicant may be made within this state; and (In the
case of any nonresident person who has no service agent within this state,
there shall be attached to the application the designation of a service agent
resident in the county, and a consent that service of summons may be made upon
a person in any action to enforce any of the obligations of the applicant
hereunder.)
      (7)   A verification of the applicant hereunder.
   (B)   Where the application is one for re-entry of an abandoned or plugged
and abandoned well, the application shall contain all the information required
by division (A) above, with the exception that the City Manager or his or her
designee may vary the requirements thereof to suit the application before him
or her. The application for a permit to re-enter an abandoned or plugged and
abandoned well shall provide the following information in every case:
      (1)   A statement of:
         (a)   The existing condition of the well or Corporation Commission
plugging report;
         (b)   The depth to which the well shall be cleaned out to or deepened;
and
         (c)   The proposed casing program to be used in connection with the
proposed activity.
      (2)   Evidence of current casing tests showing that the casing string or
strings currently pass the same tests required for a new drilling application.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-269 TESTING WATER WELLS.
   Testing of producing fresh water wells within a 1,000-foot radius of a
proposed well may be requested by City Council as a provision of the drilling
permit, upon approval of the property owner.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-270 ISSUANCE OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee’s office within 30 business
days after the filing of an application for a permit under this article shall
determine whether or not the application complies in all respects with the
provisions of this article and applicable federal and state law, and, if it
does, shall recommend to the City Council that the permit be issued. Each
permit issued under the terms of this article shall:
      (1)   By reference, have incorporated therein all the provisions of this
article with the same force and effect as if this article were copied verbatim
therein;
      (2)   By reference, have incorporated therein all the provisions of
applicable state law and the rules, regulations and standards adopted in
accordance therewith relating to the protection of human beings, animals and
natural resources;
      (3)   Specify that the term of the permit shall be a period of one year
from the date of issuance thereof, and for like periods thereafter upon the
successful inspection of the permittee’s well and operations, as is provided
for elsewhere herein;
      (4)   Specify the conditions imposed by the City Manager or his or her
designee as are by this article authorized; and
      (5)   Specify that no actual operations shall be commenced until the
permittee shall file and have approved the required bonds and certificate of
insurance in the appropriate amounts as provided for elsewhere herein;
   (B)   If the permit is issued, it shall, in two originals, be signed by the
City Manager or his or her designee and the permittee, and when so signed shall
constitute the permittee’s license to drill and operate in the city and the
contractual obligation of the permittee to comply with the terms of the permit,
the bonds as are required, and applicable state law, rules, regulations,
standards and directives. One executed original copy of the permit shall be
retained by the City Manager or his or her designee and the other shall be
retained by the permittee and shall be kept available for inspection by any
city or state law enforcement official who shall demand to see same.
   (C)   If the permit is refused, or if the applicant notifies the City
Manager or his or her designee in writing that he or she does not elect to
accept the permit as tendered and wishes to withdraw his or her application, or
if the bonds of the applicant are not approved, then upon the happening of any
of events the cash fee filed with the application shall be refunded to the
applicant, except that there shall be retained therefrom by the city the sum of
$200 as a processing fee.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-271 PERMITTEE’S INSURANCE AND BONDS.
   (A)   In the event a permit shall be issued by the city, no actual
operations shall be commenced until the permittee shall file with the city a
bond and insurance certificates as follows:
   (B)   The permittee shall file with the city certificates of the insurance,
as stated below, and shall obtain the written approval thereof of the City
Manager or his or her designee who shall act thereon promptly after the date of
the filing.
   (C)   The insurance policy or policies shall not be canceled without written
notice to the City Manager or his or her designee at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of the cancellation. In the event the policy or policies are
canceled, the permit granted shall immediately thereupon terminate without any
action on the part of the City Manager or his or her designee, and permittee’s
rights to operation under the permit shall cease until permittee files
additional insurance as provided herein.
      (1)   Any person who drills or operates any well for the exploration,
development or production of oil or gas, or as an injection or disposal well,
within this city, shall furnish on forms approved by the city and maintained at
all times as a blanket site restoration bond or a blanket site restoration
irrevocable letter of credit in the principal sum of $25,000. The bond or
letter of credit must be executed by a reliable insurance company or bank
authorized to do business in the state, as surety or creditor, with the
permittee as principal or debtor, running to the city for the benefit of the
city and all persons concerned, conditioned that the permittee will comply with
the terms and conditions of this article in the drilling and operation of all
oil or gas wells drilled or operated within the city. The bond or letter of
credit must become effective on or before the date same filed with the city and
remain in full force and effect for at least 12 months subsequent to the
expiration of the permit term, and in addition, the bond or letter of credit
must be conditioned that the permittee must promptly pay all fines, penalties
and other assessments imposed upon the permittee by reason of his or her breach
of any of the terms, provisions or conditions of this article, and that the
permittee must promptly restore the streets, sidewalks and other public
property within the city which may be disturbed or damaged during the
permittee’s operations, to their former condition; and that the permittee must
promptly clear all premises of all litter, trash, waste and other substances,
and must, after plugging and abandonment, grade, level and restore the property
to the same surface condition, as far as possible, as existed prior to
commencing operations; and further that the permittee shall indemnify and hold
harmless the city from and all liability attributable to granting the permit;
and that the permittee shall promptly pay all sums with respect to deductibles
on covered losses under insurance policies required by this article; and that
the permittee shall comply with all of the terms of this article concerning the
plugging and abandonment of all wells. Each bond or letter of credit submitted
shall cover all wells drilled or operated by the person within the city as
specifically described all wells covered by name, legal description and oil and
gas permit number, if any. For good cause shown, the city, after notice to a
permittee and opportunity for hearing, may require the filing of a blanket bond
or letter of credit for all wells within the city in an amount higher than
$25,000, but not to exceed $100,000. “Good cause” shall include, but shall not
be limited to a showing that the operator or permittee has previously violated
the provisions of this article, or that the operator has multiple wells that in
the exercise of ordinance prudence, the City Council shall require an
additional amount.
      (2)   In addition to the bond required in division (C)(1) above, the
permittee shall obtain $1,000,000 seepage and pollution insurance per well for
the benefit of the city and all persons concerned, conditioned that the
permittee will comply with every applicable federal and state law, rules,
regulations, standard or directive relating to the maintenance of the safe and
beneficial physical, chemical and biological properties of any natural waters
of the city. The permittee shall obtain the necessary permits from the city and
state with regard to any operations which have the potential of rendering the
waters harmful or detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety and
welfare. The permittee shall bear all the cost necessary and incidental to the
correction of any pollution to the waters caused by the permittee or
permittee’s agents, servants, employees, subcontractors or independent
contractors; that the permittee shall pay all fines, penalties, assessments or
judgements resulting directly or incidentally from the permittee’s activities
and which result in pollution of city waters. The permittee shall indemnify and
hold harmless the city from any and all liability attributable to granting the
permit where the liability results from the pollution of city waters.
      (3)   In addition to the bond and insurance required in divisions (C)(1)
and (2) above, the permittee shall carry a policy or policies of standard
comprehensive public liability insurance, including contractual liability
covering bodily injuries and property damage, naming the permittee and the
city, issued by an insurer authorized to do business within the state, the
policy or policies in the aggregate of $1,000,000 per occurrence.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-272 CONVERSION FROM NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL RECOVERY.
   (A)   No person shall convert any well from natural or artificial production
to a use for enhanced recovery or disposal without first obtaining the
necessary permit therefor.
   (B)   No person shall re-enter any abandoned or plugged and abandoned well
or drill an original well to be used for enhanced recovery without first
obtaining the necessary permit therefor.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-273 ENHANCED RECOVERY AND DISPOSAL WELLS.
   (A)   An application for a permit as is required by the preceding section
shall be in the same form as that required for a permit to drill an original
well, and shall contain complete information required by the City Manager or
his or her designee, including the following:
      (1)   A map of the well site, showing all equipment to be used there,
location of pipelines, access road and distances from the well to any and all
fences, public roadways and buildings within a radius of 1,000 feet;
      (2)   A map of the project showing the location of all supply, disposal,
injection and producing wells; all conduits; tank battery, pumping station and
appurtenant equipment; all wells in the project area and those located in the
sections immediately adjacent to include producing, abandoned, plugged and
abandoned, disposal and public or private fresh water supply wells;
      (3)   Evidence that all wells in the area of the project and adjacent
section were plugged and abandoned in compliance with Corporation Commission
regulations at the time the well was plugged and abandoned; (A plugging record
(OCC Form 9003) to demonstrate compliance is acceptable.)
      (4)   All wells associated with the project shall be indicated by status
(e.g., plugged and abandoned (P&A), abandoned, injector, source well, producer,
idle and the like) and showing the additional information:
         (a)   Surveyed surface location;
         (b)   DF or KB elevation;
         (c)   Drilled total depth;
         (d)   PBTD;
         (e)   Size, depth and grade of surface and production casing;
         (f)   Location of all plugs, packers, cement plugs, tubing anchors and
the like within the well bore;
         (g)   Depth and nature of all cement squeeze jobs;
         (h)   Formation name and depth of all open perforations and open hole
interval;
         (i)   Volume and type of cement used on surface and production
strings; and
         (j)   Top of cement behind pipe.
      (5)   One copy of all electric, mechanical, sample and driller’s log, if
available;
      (6)   Fee and operator name for each well;
      (7)   One copy of all cement bond logs and production logs;
      (8)   One copy of all work performed on the well;
      (9)   Copies of all information supplied to the Corporation Commission
and the Commission’s approval of the project; and
      (10) Copies of the Corporation Commission Form No. 1015, indicating
successful pressure testing of each injection well at a pressure greater than
the maximum proposed for the project, or if no the form has been filed and
approved, then sufficient evidence of the successful pressure testing of each
injection well.
   (B)   Upon the completion of the application required hereunder, the City
Manager or his or her designee shall have 30 business days to review same and
make a recommendation of approval or disapproval to the City Council.
   (C)   A fee in the sum of $1,000 shall be submitted along with every
application required hereunder.
   (D)   Where an existing well is to be used as an injection or disposal site,
the existing casing and cement shall be of an integrity and depth as to
adequately and safely isolate fresh water producing zones from the seepage and
bleeding of injection fluids or disposants. Where additional protective
operations are undertaken to comply with this section, the City Manager or his
or her designee shall be notified thereof sufficiently in advance in order for
him or her to be present for the operations.
   (E)   Injection lines shall be buried in a trench at a depth no less than
four feet, below grade level and shall be pressure tested annually at a minimum
of 150% of the pressure normally encountered at the injection pump discharge
for a period of hours to be fixed by the City Manager or his or her designee.
They shall be notified five business days in advance of the test and may
supervise same. Test results shall be filed with the city upon completion.
   (F)   Fresh water wells located within a radius of 1,000 feet of any
enhanced recovery or disposal well shall be tested semi-annually for the
presence of deleterious substances, such as chloride, sulphates and dissolved
solids. If any enhanced recovery or disposal well is not being used for
injection or disposal purposes and is in compliance with OCC rule 3-305,
(Testing and Monitoring Requirements for Enhanced Recovery Injection Wells; and
Disposal Wells), the City Manager or his or her designee may waive the testing
of fresh water wells located within the 1,000-foot radius of the inactive well.
The testing is the responsibility of the permittee and permittee’s expense. The
City Manager or his or her designee shall be notified five business days in
advance of the testing and may be present therefor. Test results shall be filed
with the city upon completion.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-274 DEEPENING AND SIDETRACKING WELLS.
   Deepening and existing well bore or sidetracking a well from an existing
well bore is permitted upon proper approval from the Corporation Commission and
the City Manager or his or her designee and may require City Council approval.
Information regarding kickoff point, angle of kickoff, cement behind kickoff
and other information relating to sidetracking may be required.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-275 ANNUAL FEE TO OPERATE.
   (A)   An annual inspection fee is hereby levied upon each well operated or
maintained under a permit issued by the city. The fee shall be payable to the
city on or before the annual anniversary date of the issuance of any permit
under this article.
   (B)   No permit for any well shall be considered valid for any year for
which the annual fee has not been paid.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-276 DISPOSAL OF SALT WATER.
   (A)   Every permittee under this article shall make sufficient provisions
for the safe disposal of salt water or other deleterious substances which he
may bring to or leave on the surface of the earth. The disposal shall not
result in pollution of the waters of the city and shall not result in any other
environmental hazard, and shall incorporate the best available techniques and
equipment.
   (B)   In the event of any leakage or spillage of any pollution or
deleterious substance, whatever the cause thereof, the permittee shall cause
the City Manager or his or her designee to be notified thereof promptly. If, in
the judgement of the City Manager or his or her designee, the leakage or
spillage represents a potential environmental hazard, he or she may issue
whatever corrective orders he or she deems appropriate, and additionally may
require the appropriate testing of the surface and subsurface for pollutant
incursion, the cost of the test or test to be borne by the permittee.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-277 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall drill an original well or re-enter an abandoned well or a
plugged and abandoned well for any purpose, or permit to exist any well,
structure, equipment, pipeline, machinery, tank or other appurtenance, in
violation of any of the provisions of this article or other city ordinances as
may be applicable, or the laws, rules, regulations, operative standards or
directives of the state.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-278 CONDUCTOR CASING.
   Conductor casing shall be set to a minimum depth of 40 feet below ground
level or to bedrock, whichever is less. The conductor hole shall be drilled
with fresh water and native mud or air. No chemicals or foreign substances are
to be added to the drilling fluid. The conductor casing shall be cemented to
the surface by circulating cement or by using the grout method. After cementing
the conductor casing, drilling shall not be resumed until the cement has set
for 24 hours.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-279 SURFACE CASING.
   (A)   Surface casing shall be set a minimum of 200 feet below the deepest
fresh water zone found in the well site section or in the eight sections
adjacent to the wellsite section. If a well has previously been drilled in the
same quarter section as the proposed well but does not have a previously run
resistivity or porosity log to identify the base of the treatable water, or the
proposed well is the first well in that quarter section, a resistivity and
porosity log to identify the base of the treatable water, or other evidence
satisfactory to the City Manager or his or her designee, shall be run in the
surface, hole before surface pipe is set, a copy of which will be filed with
the Corporation Commission, State Water Resources Board and the City Manager or
his or her designee. Surface pipe shall have a centralizer on the shoe joint, a
centralizer within 50 feet of the shoe joint and centralizers no more than 200
feet apart above the second centralizer.
   (B)   (1)   Surface pipe shall be cemented by circulating good cement to
surface by normal displacement practices. If cement cannot be circulated to
surface due to washed out hole or lost circulation, the existing cement shall
not be over-displaced and a plug shall be left in the bottom of the casing
string to be drilled out once the surface is set. The remaining open hole
behind the surface pipe shall be cemented by running a tubing string between
the conductor string and the surface pipe until the top of the cement is
tagged. The remaining uncemented annular space will then be cemented until good
cement is circulated to surface.
      (2)   The City Manager or his or her designee may require logs to be run
to determine the actual top of the cement in the annulus prior to pumping
cement down the small string of pipe installed in the annulus of the well. The
casing shall not be disturbed in any way until the cement has set for a minimum
of eight hours or any longer time required for the cement to reach a
compressive strength of 500 psi. A cement bond long shall be run after the
cement has set for 12 hours and before drilling operations are resumed. The
City Manager or his or her designee shall witness calibration and running of
the cement bond log, and he or she shall examine the log and give his or her
approval of the cement bond before drilling operations are resumed. Surface
casing must be new pipe of API grade J or K or higher grade and have a minimum
burst pressure rating of 2,900 psi.
      (3)   The City Manager or his or her designee may require cement samples
as necessary to be submitted at drilling sites or elsewhere for quality control
testing.
   (C)   (1)   Where an existing well is to be used as an injection or disposal
site, the existing casing and cement shall be of an integrity and depth as to
adequately and safely isolate fresh water producing zones from the seepage or
bleeding of injection fluids or disposants.
      (2)   Where additional protective operations are undertaken to comply
with this division, the City Manager or his or her designee shall be notified
thereof sufficiently in advance in order for him or her to be present for the
operations.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-280 NOTIFICATION OF CERTAIN OPERATIONS.
   Any person operating a well within the city shall give at least three
business days advanced notice to the City Manager or his or her designee before
taking any of the following actions with regard to the well removal of any
casing, including removal for purposes of replacement, completing or re-
completing the well in a different formation or placing the well on artificial
production.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-281 PLUGGING AND ABANDONMENT.
   Whenever any well is abandoned or to be plugged and abandoned it shall be
the obligation of the permittee and the operator of the well to obtain a
plugging permit and to plug the well as follows: set a 200-foot cement plug
across and 100 feet above Perry Gas Sand (last known hydrocarbon bearing zone
in area); a 200-foot cement plug in the bottom of the surface casing, with the
top of the plug 100 feet inside the surface casing section; and to set a 50-
foot cement plug in the top of the surface casing. In any well where surface
casing has not been set in accordance with §
4-279, the well bore shall be filled with cement from 200 feet below the base
of the deepest fresh water zone and back to surface. No surface or conductor
string of casing may be pulled or removed from a well. During initial plugging
and abandonment operations, it will be the obligation of the permittee and
operator to circulate the well with drilling mud weighing not less than nine
pounds per gallon, and to circulate this mud until stabilized and the well
shall be kept filled to the top with drilling mud of the weight herein
specified, at all times; mud- laden fluid of the above specifications will be
left in the well bore below and between cement plugs. Any additional provisions
or precautionary measures prescribed by the state, the Corporation Commission
or the City Manager or his or her designee in connection with the plugging and
abandonment of a well shall be complied with by the permittee.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-282 MOVEMENT WITH HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall move or cause to be moved, over, upon or across any
pavement or paved street or alley within city limits any piece of machinery of
extreme weight which may crack or injure the pavement, except as herein
provided.
   (B)   Prior of the moving of any machinery over, across or upon any paved
street or alley within this city, application shall be made to the City Clerk,
as provided in this code.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-283 WELL LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   No permit shall be issued for the drilling of an original well
or the re-entry of an abandoned well or plugged and abandoned well if the well
or the exterior of any tank or pressure vessel is nearer than 300 feet of any
residence, commercial building or producing fresh water well.
      (2)   This 300-foot separation can be reduced to a 200-foot separation if
written consent from the property owners within the reduced distance has been
submitted with the drilling application. The 300-foot minimum separation from a
water well cannot be reduced.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for the drilling of an original well or the
re-entry of an abandoned well, or a plugged and abandoned well at any location
which is within the boundaries of a public cemetery.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-284 FENCES.
   Any person who completes any well as a producer shall have the obligation to
enclose the well, together, with its surface facilities, by a fence
sufficiently high and properly built so as to ordinarily keep persons and
animals out of the enclosure with all gates thereto to be kept locked when the
permittee or his or her employees are not within the enclosure. A key to the
lock shall be filed with the City Manager or his or her designee. In areas not
imminent for urban development, the City Council, at their discretion, may
waive the requirement of any fence or may designate the type of fence to be
erected. If fencing requirements are waived by the City Council and the
landowner consents thereto in writing, any application to plat the property
shall constitute an agreement by the developer to fence the well at the
developer’s expense.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-285 NOISE AND OTHER NUISANCES.
   All oil operations shall be conducted in a manner as to eliminate, as far as
practicable, dust, noise, vibration or noxious odors, and shall be in
accordance with the best accepted practices incident to exploration for
drilling for, and production of hydrocarbon substances. Proven technological
improvements in exploration, drilling and production methods shall be adopted
as they become, from time to time, available, if capable of reducing factors of
nuisance and annoyance.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-286 FACILITIES.
   All lease equipment shall be painted and maintained in a good state of
appearance, and shall have posted in a prominent place as required by the
Corporation Commission, a metal sign no less than two square feet in area upon
which the following information shall be conspicuous; permittee’s name; 24-hour
emergency phone number; lease name; and location of the well bore by reference
to the United States survey. In the event of a change in operator, it will be
the new operator’s responsibility to replace the sign within 30 days after the
change is effective.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-287 STORAGE TANKS AND SEPARATORS.
   (A)   Crude oil storage tanks shall not be constructed, operated or used,
except to the extent of two steel tanks for oil storage, not exceeding 500
barrels capacity and so constructed and maintained as to be vapor tight
provided, that additional tankage may be approved by the City Manager or his or
her designee.
   (B)   A permittee may use, construct and operate a steel conventional
separator and other steel tanks and appurtenances as are necessary for treating
oil with each of the facilities to be so constructed and maintained as to be
vapor tight. Each oil, gas separator shall be equipped with both a regulation
pressure-relief safety valve and a bursting head.
   (C)   There shall be a minimum separation distance of at least 25 feet
between storage tanks (crude and water) and heater treaters or other equipment
designed to be heated with burners or electric elements. The provisions of this
section shall apply only to tanks or equipment installed, placed or replaced,
on or after the effective date of the ordinance by which this section was
enacted.
   (D)   One hundred-twenty days after completion of the well, the tank
battery, diking, fencing and other surface equipment needs to be installed.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-288 IMPOUNDING AROUND TANKS BY DIKING.
   When protection of adjoining property or waterways is by means of impounding
by diking around the tanks, the system shall comply with the following:
   (A)   A slope of not less than 1% away from the tank shall be provided for
at least 50 feet or to the dike base, whichever is less.
   (B)   The volumetric capacity of the dike area shall not be less than the
greatest amount of liquid that can be released from the largest tank within the
diked area, assuming a full tank. To allow for volume occupied by tanks, the
capacity of the diked area enclosing more than one tank shall be calculated
after deducting the volume of the tanks, other than the largest tank, below the
height of the dike.
   (C)   To permit access, the outside base of the dike at ground level shall
be no closer than ten feet to any property line that is or can be built upon.
   (D)   Walls of the diked area shall be of earth, steel, concrete or solid
masonry designed to be liquid tight and to withstand a full hydrostatic head.
Earthen walls three feet or more in height shall have a flat section at the top
not less than two feet wide. The slope of an earthen wall shall be consistent
with the angle of repose of the material of which the wall is constructed. Dike
areas for tanks containing Class 1 liquids located in extremely porous soils
may require special treatment to prevent seepage of hazardous quantities of
liquids to low-lying areas or waterways in case of spills.
   (E)   (1)   Every tank battery associated with a well or group of wells
shall be separated from any other tank battery associated with any other well
or wells by a dike of a height as required above. A dike shall also be
constructed to separate the crude storage tanks and water storage tanks from
separators, heater treaters and other vessels. The height of this dike shall
meet the requirements specified above.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply only to tanks or
equipment installed, placed or replaced on or after the effective date of the
ordinance by which this subsection was enacted.
   (F)   Where provision is made for draining water from diked areas, the
drains shall be controlled in a manner so as to prevent flammable or
combustible liquids from entering natural water courses, public sewers or
public drains, if their presence would constitute a hazard. Control of drainage
shall be accessible under fire conditions from outside the dike.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-289 FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   Adequate firefighting apparatus and supplies approved by the Fire
Department shall be maintained on the drilling site at all times during
drilling and production operations.
   (B)   All machinery, equipment and installations on all drilling sites
within the city limits shall conform with the requirements as may from time to
time be issued by the Fire Department.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-290 PITS.
   (A)   Non-leaking steel mud or circulating pits shall be used. The pits and
contents shall be removed from the premises and the drilling site within 60
days after completion of the well. No earthen pits shall be allowed, unless
clay lined, small and temporary, and approved in writing by the City Manager or
his or her designee.
   (B)   Haul-off pits will not be dug in unless approved in writing by the
City Manager or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-291 MOTIVE POWER.
   Motive power for all well pumping equipment shall be electricity, with the
exception the City Manager or his or her designee may vary the requirements
thereof to suit the application before him or her.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-292 DERRICK AND RIG.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to use or operate in
connection with the drilling, re-entry or reworking of any well within the
city, any wooden derrick or any steam-powered rig, and all engines, shall be
equipped with adequate mufflers approved by the City Manager or his or her
designee. The permitting of any drilling rig or derrick to remain on the
premises or drilling site for a period longer than 60 days after completion or
plugging and abandonment of a well is hereby prohibited, unless an extension is
granted by the City Manager or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-293 OPEN HOLE FORMATION TESTING.
   (A)   All open hole formation testing shall be done during daylight hours,
with advance notification thereof made to the City Manager or his or her
designee adequate to enable him or her to be present.
   (B)   All open hole formation testing shall be done into steel tanks or
flared properly in the case of gas.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-294 DRILLING OPERATIONS; EQUIPMENT.
   All drilling, re-entry and operations at any well performed under this
article shall be conducted in accordance with the best practices of the
reasonably prudent operator. All casing, valve and blow-out preventors,
drilling fluid, tubing, bradenhead, Christmas tree and well head connections
shall be of a type and quality consistent with the best practices of a
reasonably prudent operator. Setting and cementing casing and running drill
stem tests shall be performed in a manner and at a time consistent with the
best practices of the reasonably prudent operator. Any permittee under this
article shall observe and follow the recommendations or regulations of the
American Petroleum Institute and the State Corporation Commission. A copy of
all electric, production, case hole and cement bond logs shall be filed with
the City Manager or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-295 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   (1)   No well shall be drilled, and no permit shall be issued for any
well to be drilled, at any location which is within any of the streets or
alleys of the city.
      (2)   No street or alley shall be blocked or encumbered or closed in any
drilling or production operation, except with the written approval of the City
Manager or his or her designee, and then only temporarily.
   (B)   The permittee shall construct a concrete drive approach to city
standards outlined herein, with proper curbs where applicable, within 60 days
after production casing has been run.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-296 FLARING OF GAS.
   All produced gas shall either be sold or flared with the flaring procedures
being approved by the City Manager or his or her designee and the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-297 FRACTURING AND ACIDIZING.
   (A)   In the completion of an oil and gas, injection, disposal or service
well, where acidizing or fracturing processes are used, no oil, gas or other
deleterious substances or pollutants shall be permitted to pollute any surface
or subsurface fresh waters.
   (B)   All fluids produced shall be put into tankage.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-298 SWABBING AND BAILING.
   In swabbing, bailing or purging a well, all deleterious substances removed
from the bore hole shall be placed in appropriate tanks and no substances shall
be permitted to pollute any surface or subsurface fresh waters.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-299 RUPTURE IN SURFACE CASING.
   In the event a rupture, break or opening occurs in the surface or production
casing, the permittee or the operator or drilling contractor shall take
immediate action to repair it and shall promptly report the incident to the
City Manager or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-300 DEPOSITING OIL PRODUCTS.
   No person shall deposit, drain or divert into or upon any public highway,
street or alley, drainage ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter, paving, creek,
river, lake or lagoon, any oil or oily liquid with petroleum content or any
mud, rotary mud, sand, water or salt water, or in any manner permit by seepage,
overflow or otherwise, any of the substances to escape from any property owned,
leased or controlled by the person and flow or be carried into or upon any
public highway, street or alley, drainage ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter,
paving, creek, river, lake or lagoon, within the city.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-301 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   Persons drilling, operating, maintaining or plugging any well shall
use all necessary care and take all precautions which shall be reasonably
necessary under the circumstances to protect the public. The provisions of this
article shall be deemed to be the minimum requirements for the preservation of
the public health, safety and welfare, and compliance with the terms hereof
shall not be deemed to relieve any person of any additional duty imposed by
law.
   (B)   Blowout prevention equipment is required and shall be as follows:
      (1)   For drilling operations:
         (a)   The BOP stack shall be hydraulically, operated BOPs equipped
with the following: accumulator bottles capable of closing all rams and keeping
them closed. Three type preventors, one of which shall contain pipe rams to fit
the drill pipe in use, one set to be blind rams, and the third one shall be an
annular type. A remote control station is required to operate the BOP’s in case
of emergency.
         (b)   The BOP stack rated at no less than 3,000 psi shall be installed
and pressure tested according to the API Bulletin RP 53 specifications using
only water, prior to drilling out the surface casing shoe.
         (c)   Choke manifolds shall be considered as a part of the BOP system
and will be installed, tested and maintained in accordance with specifications
contained within API Bulletin RP 53.
      (2)   For maintenance, remedial, recompletion or plugging operations the
BOP requirement may be altered to conform to potential risk if approved by the
City Manager or his or her designee in writing, but the requirement cannot be
deleted.
      (3)   A safety valve, with appropriate threaded connections to fit any
tubular string being moved in or out of the well and having an inside diameter
at least as large as the inside diameter of the tubular string and with a
working pressure rating equal to at least 3,000 psi or greater than any well
pressure that might possibly be encountered during the operations described
above must be on the rig floor, in the open position, at all times.
      (4)   Production operations:
         (a)   Flowing wells shall be equipped with high-low pressure safety
valves with sensing points to be determined by the flowing characteristics of
each well.
         (b)   Beam pumping wells, producing in excess of ten psi of combined
oil and water per day shall be equipped with sensing devices and appropriate
equipment to shut down the pump if the stuffing box should develop a leak and
to seal the tubing if the polish rod should part and allow the well to flow to
the atmosphere.
         (c)   Other artificial lift methods, if used, should be protected by
appropriate safety equipment to prevent the accidental discharge of produced
oil, gas and/or water to the atmosphere or drainage system.
         (d)   All pressure vessels should be manufactured in accordance with
the appropriate API code in approved manufacturing facilities.
         (e)   All fired vessels must be equipped with flame arrester.
         (f)   Injection and transportation systems must be protected with
appropriate high-low safety shut-down equipment with sensing points to be
determined according to the individual installation.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-302 FORMS FILED WITH CORPORATION COMMISSION.
   Copies of all applications, notices, forms, records, logs and the like filed
by permittee with the State Corporation Commission shall be filed with the city
as well. The City Manager or his or her designee shall keep confidential all
submitted material which the state allows to be kept confidential.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-303 WATER FOR MUDS.
   In the event a fresh water supply well is drilled to provide water for
drilling muds, the depth of the well shall not be greater than 200 feet below
surface. Upon the completion of operations for which the well is required, the
city shall have the right to purchase the well at a price determinable by the
cost of completion. If the city, in a proper case, does not make the purchase,
any well shall be properly plugged and abandoned after notice of intention to
so plug is provided the City Manager or his or her designee, who may supervise
the operation.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-304 SERVICE COMPANIES.
   (A)   Upon request of the City Manager or his or her designee, service
companies or other persons shall furnish and file reports and records showing
perforating, hydraulic fracturing, cementing, shooting, chemical treatment and
all other service operations on any site covered by this article. The furnished
material shall remain confidential where the confidentiality is usually granted
by the state.
   (B)   Failure to provide any requested material shall be deemed a violation
of this article.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-305 ACCUMULATION OF VAPOR.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall have the authority to require
the immediate shutting in or closing of any well if he or she finds that there
exists, within a 100-foot radius of any well, any gas or gasoline vapor in a
quantity sufficient to constitute, in his or her judgement, or in the judgement
of the Fire Marshal, a fire hazard. The well shall remain shut or closed in
until the hazard and its cause are removed.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-306 INSPECTION OF PRESSURE LINES.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall inspect all pressure lines in
use at any well or at any project to assure that tubing, fittings, equipment or
connections are reasonably tight, safe and free from leaks and be a minimum of
four feet below grade. The lines on the location should be on or near the
surface, (i.e. tank battery lines and well to battery flowline.)
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-307 INGRESS AND EGRESS.
   Lease roads shall be maintained in a manner as to safely and comfortably
allow for ingress and egress of city or state personnel traveling in a common
passenger motor vehicle. All mud, dirt, gravel and other debris on city roads,
streets and public ways must be removed promptly.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-308 ORDER TO CEASE OPERATIONS.
   (A)   If the City Manager or his or her designee finds that, in his or her
judgement, a hazard to life or natural resources exists, he or she shall order
immediate rectification of the cause. If the permittee takes no immediate
measure to reduce the hazard, or if the situation be so perilous as to
constitute an imminent threat to safety, then in either of these events he or
she may order the prompt cessation of activity, and if necessary, the clearance
of the premises. If there is no hazard, fire or otherwise existing, if the
permittee desires, he or she may continue circulating the hole with drilling
fluids in order to protect the drilled hole from being lost.
   (B)   (1)   A hearing shall be scheduled before the City Manager within 24
hours after the issuance of the order. The City Manager shall determine if
proper cause existed, and, if not, shall order the permittee’s activity to
resume without delay.
      (2)   If the City Manager determines that proper cause did exist for the
order to cease activity to be issued, then he or she shall make whatever ruling
is proper to assure rectification of the cause of the peril. The ruling and
compliance with it by the permittee shall not be construed to absolve the
permittee of any liability for any violation of this article or for any damage
or injury caused thereby.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-309 APPEALS.
   Any permittee aggrieved by any order, directive or ruling issued by the City
Manager or his or her designee may appeal the same to the City Council. The
matter shall be placed on the next Council agenda for consideration by the
Council, in accordance with the requirements of the State Open Meeting Act, 25
O.S. §§ 301 et seq., which shall hear the matter at its next scheduled meeting.
The lodging of the appeal shall not stay the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this article. The Council, upon hearing the matter, may issue
whatever ruling or order is appropriate, provided that the ruling or order be
in keeping with the spirit and purpose of this article.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-310 REVIEW OF PERMIT RECOMMENDATIONS.
   Upon the consideration of any application for a permit required by the terms
of this article, the City Manager or his or her designee shall recommend
approval or disapproval thereof to the Mayor and City Council, who shall review
the matter at a regularly scheduled meeting, and thereupon uphold or reverse
the recommendation with or without the addition of any conditions thereto.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-311 CONDUITS ON STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   No permittee shall make any excavations or construct any lines for the
conveyance of fuel, water or minerals, on, under or through the streets and
alleys of the city without first having obtained a permit therefor upon
application to the City Manager or his or her designee.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall prescribe the forms to
be used for the application and the information to accompany it.
   (C)   Each application for a permit under this section shall be accompanied
by a non-refundable filing fee.
   (D)   The City Manager or his or her designee within 20 days of receipt of
the properly executed application, shall either grant or deny the request.
   (E)   The granting of any permit shall not be construed to be the granting
of a franchise.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-312 ANNUAL FEE FOR CONDUITS.
   (A)   The permittee under §
4-311 shall pay to the city an annual renewal and inspection fee, being the
total of $1 per rod of conduit multiplied by the number of rods in the conduit
for which the permit was issued.
   (B)   The City Manager shall appoint a representative who shall inspect the
conduits to assure the public safety. No permit issued under §
4-311 shall be renewed if the conduit or any part thereof covered by the permit
is in an unsafe condition.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-313 APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   This article shall apply to any person drilling an original well, re-
entering an abandoned well or plugged and abandoned well, conducting natural or
artificial production operations or maintaining a disposal well within the city
limits and every person shall have no longer than 90 days to come into
compliance with this article.
   (A)   No initial permit fees shall be charged the person as would otherwise
apply;
   (B)   No penalties shall be sought against any activity violative of this
article where an activity pre- existed the adoption of this article and was
otherwise in compliance with the applicable state law, rules, regulations,
standards and directives.
   (C)   The City Manager or his or her designee may allow for reasonable
extensions or variations for compliance with this article where to do so would
be in the interest of fairness.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
§ 4-314 PENALTIES.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or neglect to
comply with any provisions hereof irrespective of whether or not the verbiage
of each section hereof contains the specific language that the violation or
neglect is unlawful and is an offense. Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this article, or any of the provisions of a drilling and
operating permit issued pursuant hereto, or any condition of the bond filed by
the permittee pursuant to this article, or who shall neglect to comply with the
terms hereof, shall be fined in a sum of not more than $100, plus court costs
and the violation of each separate provision of this article, and of the
permit, and of the bond, shall be considered a separate offense, and each day’s
violation of each separate provision thereof shall be considered a separate
offense. In addition to the foregoing penalties, except as to termination of
permits as provided for herein and cessation of operations as provided for
herein, which termination or cessation shall be effective without any action by
City Council and only with the notices provided for in those sections, it is
further provided that the City Council at any regular or special session or
meeting thereof, may, provided ten business days notice has been given to the
permittee that revocation is to be considered at the meeting, revoke or suspend
any permit issued under this article and under which drilling or producing
operations are being conducted in the event the permittee thereof has violated
any provision of the permit, the bond or this article. In the event the permit
be revoked, the permittee may make application to the City Manager or his or
her designee for re-issuance of the permit, and the action of the city thereon
shall be final. Any continuing offense shall be considered a public nuisance,
the remedies for which under law shall be in addition to those hereinbefore
enumerated.
(Ord. 2991, passed 7-19-94)
ARTICLE 15: EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING
§ 4-325 PURPOSES; CONSTRUCTION.
   The general purposes of this article are:
   (A)   To secure for all people equal access to housing in all neighborhoods;
and
   (B)   To preserve the public safety, health and welfare.
(`90 Code, § 4-165) (Ord. 2638, passed - -)
§ 4-326 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, real estate broker, real estate
salesperson or agent:
   (A)   To refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title
or other interest in any housing or real property upon which residential
housing is to be constructed to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, physical or mental
disability, familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other
characteristic protected by Federal Law;
   (B)   To refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental or leasing
of any residential property, or to represent that the property is not available
for inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so available, because
of the person’s race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, physical or
mental disability, familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any
other characteristic protected by Federal Law;
   (C)   To solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person
owning any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease, or not
to sell, rent or lease the housing to any person on the ground of loss of value
due to the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or
persons of another race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, physical
or mental disability, familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or
any other characteristic protected by Federal Law, either by direct
solicitation or inducement or by the purchase of other property in the
neighborhood for the purpose of such inducement, or to distribute, or cause to
be distributed material or making statements designed to induce a residential
property owner to sell or lease his or her property due to the change in
neighborhood; and
   (D)   To file a complaint alleging a violation of this article, with
knowledge that the complaint is false in any material respect, or to file the
complaint for the sole purpose of harassment.
(`90 Code, § 4-166) (Ord. 2638, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2967, passed 11-17-92; Am.
Ord. 3327, passed 1-21-20)
§ 4-327 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall apply to:
   (A)   Any religious organization, association, society or private club; a
religious nonprofit organization, operated, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association or society from limiting
the sale or rental of dwelling units owned and operated for other than a
commercial purpose;
   (B) Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided that the
private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses and
was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale with the
exception granted to one sale within a 24-month period; provided further that
the owner does not own or retain, in his or her behalf, title to a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three the single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, that the sale or rental of the
single-family house shall be excepted if the house is sold or rented without
the use in any manner of a sale or rental facilities or employee thereof;
   (C) Any dwellings containing living quarters occupied or intended to be
occupied by no more than four families living independent of each other and the
owner actually occupies one living quarter as his or her residence.
(`90 Code, § 4-167) (Ord. 2638, passed - -)
§ 4-328 FAIR HOUSING BOARD CREATED; DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Board of the city. Members of
the Board of Adjustment, being a representative sample of the population of the
city, shall hear complaints herein received and report of fact to the City
Attorney.
(`90 Code, § 4-168)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fair Housing Board to:
      (1)   Receive, investigate and initiate complaints, charging unlawful
housing practices;
      (2)   Seek conciliation of the complaints, hold hearings, make findings
of fact and publish its findings of fact; and
      (3)   Adopt the rules and regulations as may be necessary within the
limits of this article, and carry out the purposes and provisions of this
article.
(`90 Code, § 4-169) (Ord. 2638, passed - -)
§ 4-329 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by discriminatory practices prohibited by
this article may file with the Fair Housing Board, a complaint in writing,
under oath.
      (2)   The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be
aggrieved and shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have
violated the provisions of this article, and shall further set forth the
particulars of the violation, and may include other information as may be
required by the Board.
      (3)   Complaints filed under this section must be filed within 30 days
after the alleged violation, and failure to file within the time, shall be
considered a waiver of the application of this article.
      (4)   The Board may issue a complaint on its own initiative, at any time
it is within the knowledge of the Board that a person has violated any of the
provisions of this article.
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall investigate the complaint filed with the Board,
and shall attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means of conference and
conciliation. Sixty days shall be allowed for the purpose of investigation,
conference and conciliation. Upon determination that a complaint is not well
founded, the Board shall dismiss the complaint and notify the complainant and
respondent in writing of the dismissal.
      (2)   If the Board takes no action within 90 days of the filing of the
complaint, it shall be considered as dismissed.
   (C)   If conference or conciliation does not result in compliance with this
article, the Board shall cause to be issued and served in the name of the city,
a written notice, together with a copy of the complaint, requiring the person
named in the complaint, hereinafter referred to as respondent, to answer
charges of the complaint at a hearing before the Board at a time and place to
be specified in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   At the hearing, provided for in division (C) above, the
complaint shall be heard by the Board. At the hearing, the complainant or
person aggrieved may appear in person and/or by counsel, and the respondent may
file a written answer to the complaint and may appear in person or by legal
counsel.
      (2)   The Board, when conducting any hearing, pursuant to this section,
may permit amendments to any complaint or answer, and the testimony taken at
the hearing shall be under oath, and shall be transcribed at the request of
either party, or at the direction of the Board. If the Board finds at the
hearing, that the respondent has engaged in any discriminatory practice or
practices, prohibited by this article, it shall state its findings of fact, and
shall so certify the matter to the City Attorney for appropriate action.
      (3)   No prosecution shall be brought under this article, except upon the
certification.
      (4)   If the Board, upon hearing, finds that respondent has not engaged
in any discriminatory practice, it shall state its findings of fact, and shall
issue and file an order, dismissing the complaint.
      (5)   The Board shall establish rules and regulations to govern and
expedite and effectuate the foregoing procedure, and shall maintain the files
provided for herein.
(`90 Code, § 4-170) (Ord. 2638, passed - -)
§ 4-330 NOTICES.
   Any and all notices required under the provisions of this article to be
served upon any person, may be served personally on the person or by mailing a
copy thereof by certified or registered mail, with return receipt requested, to
the most current business or residence address of the person.
(`90 Code, § 4-171) (Ord. 2638, passed - -)
§ 4-331 PENALTIES.
   It shall be unlawful and constitute an offense for any person to violate any
of the provisions of this article, and any person found guilty of violating any
provisions shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and is subject, upon
conviction, to a fine of not more than $100, plus court costs. Each day that an
act or omission is continued shall constitute a violation of this article and
be construed as a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 4-172) (Ord. 2638, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2967, passed 11-17-92)
ARTICLE 16: ENERGY CODE
§ 4-345 BOCA ENERGY CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby adopted by the City Council for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the conservation of energy that certain
code known as the Building Officials and Code Administrators (BOCA) Basic
Energy Conservation Code, 1981 Edition.
      (2)   The BOCA Basic Energy Conservation Code, 1981 Edition, is hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and from and
after September 15, 1981, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within
the limits of the city.
   (B)   (1)   It is noted that the BOCA Basic Energy Conservation Code is
updated by a new edition every three years.
      (2)   Any new edition of the BOCA Basic Energy Conservation Code shall be
controlling within the limits of the city unless and until the City Council, by
ordinance passed, amends any provision of the new edition.
(`90 Code, § 4-172) (Ord. 2692, passed 9-15-81)
ARTICLE 17: MECHANICAL CODE
§ 4-355 2018 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted as the Mechanical Code of the City of Guthrie,
Oklahoma, the 2018 International Mechanical Code as published by the
International Code Council for the control of buildings and structures as
herein provided, and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the International Mechanical Code are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section with
all indexes, additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed
in division (B) below, a copy of which International Mechanical Code
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Guthrie Mechanical Code” is on
file in the Office of City Clerk of the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma.
   (B)   The following sections of the International Mechanical Code are hereby
revised as follows:
      (1) Section 101.1, Insert: “City of Guthrie.”
      (2)   Section 106.5.2, Insert: “As per Master Fee Schedule.”
      (3)   Section 106.5.3, Delete entire section.
      (4)   Section 108.4, Insert: “Misdemeanor, $500.” Delete “not exceeding
number of days.”
      (5)   Section 108.5, Insert: “Minimum $100, Maximum $500.”
      (6)   All amendments and modifications to the IPC 2018 edition, as
drafted by the State of Oklahoma’s Uniform Building Code Commission, are
adopted as an addendum and made part of this section.
(`90 Code, § 4-173) (Ord. 2692, passed 9-15-81; Am. Ord. 2804, passed 12-16-86;
Am. Ord. 2985, passed 2-15-94; Am. Ord. 3061, passed 4-18-00; Am. Ord. 3148,
passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 3193, passed 2-5-08; Am. Ord. 3235, passed 8-21-12;
Am. Ord. 3299, passed 9-6-16; Am. Ord. 3384, passed 2-7-23)
§ 4-356 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of any provision in the International Mechanical
Code shall be in accordance with §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 4-173.1) (Ord. 2863, passed 4-18-89)
ARTICLE 18: WATER WELL DRILLING
§ 4-370 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to drill a well or wells, shall
apply to the City Clerk for a license to operate, as a water well driller, and
shall register his or her name and place of business. When the applicant shall
have paid a fee to the City Clerk, the license shall be issued and continued in
force until June 30 of the same year. Thereafter the license shall be renewed
on or before July 1 of each year upon payment of a fee and shall be valid until
June 30 of the next year.
(`90 Code, § 4-174) (Ord. 2702, passed 5-4-82)
§ 4-371 BOND REQUIRED.
   Before commencing actual drilling of any water well, any person, firm or
corporation shall file with the City Clerk a bond in a minimum amount of $5,000
effective for a period of not less than one year, executed by some bonding or
indemnity company or insurance company authorized to do business in the state,
running to the city and conditioned that the person, firm or corporation
licensed as a water well driller shall abide by and comply with all of the
provisions of this article or other requirements of law.
(`90 Code, § 4-175) (Ord. 2702, passed 5-4-82)
§ 4-372 PERMIT AND INSPECTION.
   Any person, firm or corporation prior to drilling a water well shall obtain
a permit from the Community Planning and Development Office and have the well
site approved by the City Inspector prior to drilling the well. Permit and
inspection fees are hereby established as set out in the fee schedule at the
end of this code.
(`90 Code, § 4-176) (Ord. 2702, passed 5-4-82; Am. Ord. 2889, passed 6-29-89)
§ 4-373 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In the drilling of a water well, the driller shall fix, install or set
a minimum of ten feet of steel surface pipe or casing and shall use throughout,
standard acceptable pipe or casing which shall meet the minimum requirements
established by the State Department of Health and the State Water Resources
Board.
   (B)   (1)   The driller shall drill over a four-section baffling box so as
to keep the mud and shale on the property where the well is being drilled.
After completion of drilling, the street shall be washed down with a minimum of
1,000 gallons of clear water, which water shall enter the street at the precise
location as did the drilling water.
      (2)   The driller shall not use city water during stage I or stage II
water emergencies, as defined in the city’s water emergency ordinance. The
driller shall haul all drilling mud and shale from the premises permitting none
to escape on the street. Alternatively, the driller can use any other method of
containing the mud and shale on the property whereon the well is being drilled,
if the method is a generally accepted method within the water well drilling
industry.
   (C)   If a well is not productive of water, the driller shall satisfactorily
plug and cap the well so that it will not be dangerous to persons or animals or
contaminate useful underground water.
   (D)   If a well is productive of water, but is later abandoned, the owner
shall satisfactorily plug and cap the well so that it will not be dangerous to
persons or animals or contaminate useful underground water.
   (E)   No water well shall be drilled closer than ten feet to any residence.
   (F)   All completed water wells shall be concreted between the casing and
dirt for a depth of ten feet below the surface. Each well shall have a surface
pipe extending above ground and shall be sealed with a sanitary well seal. All
completed wells shall be chlorinated to kill any bacteria that may be present
in the water.
(`90 Code, § 4-177) (Ord. 2702, passed 5-4-82)
§ 4-374 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
   No physical connection shall be permitted between a line carrying a public
drinking water supply and a line carrying water of unknown and questionable
quality.
(`90 Code, § 4-178) (Ord. 2702, passed 5-4-82)
§ 4-375 INSPECTION OF WATER WELLS.
   All existing water wells, which are now in use, or any well or wells
hereafter drilled shall be open and accessible at all times to the inspection
of the State Health Department and city officials.
(`90 Code, § 4-179) (Ord. 2702, passed 5-4-82)
§ 4-376 PENALTY.
   Violation of any terms of this article shall be deemed an offense, and each
violation thereunder shall be treated as a separate offense, with each day of
the violation constituting separate offenses. On conviction of violation or
violations hereof, any person so convicted shall be punished as provided in §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 4-180) (Ord. 2702, passed 5-4-82; Am. Ord. 2823, passed - -)
ARTICLE 19: APPROACH AND DRIVEWAYS
§ 4-390 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The first eight feet of drive approaches shall be constructed of six
inches of 3,500 PC concrete with five feet of minimum radius.
   (B)   No part of a drive approach shall encroach or extend across or into
adjacent property or ownership lines extended to the centerline of the streets
without written permission from adjacent property owners.
   (C)   For all approaches that are constructed abutting asphaltic concrete
streets without curb and gutter, the contractor shall saw, cut and remove all
asphalt.
   (D)   (1)   Residential approaches and driveways shall be installed so that
the natural flow of surface water will not be altered in any manner that would
divert surface water from a designated drainage system. Approaches and
driveways abutting state highways shall be approved by the State Highway
Department prior to beginning construction.
      (2)   Commercial approaches and driveways shall be installed so that the
natural flow of surface water will not be altered in any manner that would
divert surface water from a designated drainage system. When building and/or
parking construction is to be accomplished that will effect the surface water
drainage, a scaled plot plan prepared by a licensed engineer revealing the
location of construction and drainage plan will be submitted to and approved by
the city prior to a building permit being issued. Driveways and drainage
involving state highways shall require approval of the State Highway
Department. The city building permit will not be issued until both the city and
State Highway Department have approved the drainage plans.
   (E)   Culvert size shall be determined by Inspector, but no less than 12
inches in diameter.
   (F)   Permits shall be obtained prior to any construction of drive
approaches or driveways connecting to city streets or state highways, except
for routine or normal maintenance of existing non-sealed surface drive
approaches or driveways.
   (G)   Inspections shall be performed on all drive approaches and driveways,
grades and forms prior to any concrete being poured or asphalt being laid.
   (H)   A permit fee and inspection fee is hereby established for installation
of drive approaches and driveways.
   (I)   All fees and charges shall be as set out in the fee schedule at the
end of this code of ordinances and are subject to modification, whether an
increase or decrease, by resolution of the City Council passed and approved by
a simple majority of the Council.
(`90 Code, § 4-186) (Ord. 2802, passed 11-18-86)
ARTICLE 20: EROSIONS AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
§ 4-400 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to minimize erosion and sedimentation damage
during the period of site construction activities until final landscaping and
permanent erosion control measures are effectively in place by establishing
standards and requirements for controlling erosion and sedimentation during
site construction on all areas less than five acres in size, and during
construction on individual residential sites less than two acres in size.
Construction activities on sites greater than five acres in size shall be in
accordance with this section and shall obtain a State Department of
Environmental Quality General permit for storm water discharges.
(Ord. 3055, passed 12-21-99)
§ 4-401 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person acting for himself
or herself or acting as agents, servants, employees, subcontractors or
independent contractors of any other person, to commence to move dirt,
excavate, fill or disturb the natural state of soil on any lot, parcel or tract
of land less than five acres or on individual residential sites less than two
acres within the city without having first been issued a site groundwork permit
by the authority of the City Manager or his or her designee in accordance with
this article.
   (B)   The fee for a site groundwork permit shall be determined by the City
Council by motion or resolution.
(Ord. 3055, passed 12-21-99)
§ 4-402 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following exemptions are granted by the city from the site groundwork
permit application process for construction areas less than five acres in size
and individual residential sites less than two acres in size.
   (A)   Bonafide agricultural and farming operations;
   (B)   Customary and incidental routine ground maintenance, landscaping and
home gardening;
   (C)   Emergency repairs of a temporary nature made on public or private
property;
   (D)   Temporary excavation for the purpose of repairing or maintaining any
public street, public utility facility or any service lines related thereto;
and/or
   (E)   Routine maintenance of the stormwater drainage system.
(Ord. 3055, passed 12-21-99)
§ 4-403 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   A site groundwork permit application for construction sites less than
five acres in size shall contain all applicable information listed.
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant, land owner,
developer and engineer;
      (2)   Project description; briefly describe the total land area in acres
or boundary dimensions, the nature and purpose of the land disturbing activity,
the amount of grading involved and project location including lot, block and
addition or section, range and township;
      (3)   Existing site conditions; a description of the existing topography,
vegetation and drainage;
      (4)   Immediate adjacent areas; a description of neighboring areas such
as streams, lakes, residential areas, roads and the like, which might be
affected by the land disturbance;
      (5)   Erosion and sediment control measures; a description of the
methods, which will be used to control erosion and sedimentation on the site
while under construction;
      (6)   Permanent stabilization; a brief description of how the site will
be stabilized after construction is completed;
      (7)   Stormwater management considerations; explain how stormwater will
be managed and determine detention requirements;
      (8)   General location map; a map shall be provided in sufficient detail
to indicate the location of the project site; and (The map shall be at a scale
of one inch equaling 1,000 feet and shall indicate the project site in relation
to existing topography, transportation, features and land boundaries. The map
shall show adjacent land drainage areas contributing to the site.)
      (9)   Sediment and erosion control plan. Maps of the proposed development
at a scale no smaller than one inch equaling 200 feet shall be included. The
plan shall show the following:
         (a)   A boundary line survey of the site on which the work is to be
performed;
         (b)   Existing topography at a maximum of two-foot contour intervals;
         (c)   Proposed topography at a maximum of two-foot contour intervals;
         (d)   Location of any existing structure or natural feature on the
site;
         (e)   Location of any structure or natural feature on the land
adjacent to the site and within a minimum of 100 feet of the site boundary
line; (The map shall show the location of the storm sewer, channel or creek
receiving the stormwater run-off from the site.)
         (f)   Location of any additional proposed structures or development on
the site, if known; and
         (g)   Limits of clearing and grading areas which are to be cleared and
graded.
   (B)   All site groundwork permit applications for residential construction
sites less than two acres in size shall contain all applicable information
listed.
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant, land owner,
developer and engineer;
      (2)   Project description; briefly describe the total land area in acres
or boundary dimensions, the nature and purpose of the land disturbing activity,
the amount of grading involved and project location including lot, block and
addition or section, range and township;
      (3)   Existing site conditions; a description of the existing topography,
vegetation and drainage;
      (4)   Immediate adjacent areas; a description of neighboring areas such
as streams, lakes, residential areas, roads and the like, which might be
affected by the land disturbance; and/or
      (5)   Erosion and sediment control measures; a description of the methods
which will be used to control erosion and sedimentation on the site while under
construction.
   (C)   Design policies and standards.
      (1)   Drainage policies.
         (a)   The storm water drainage system shall be designed to pass the
peak storm water run-off received from upstream and from the subject property
for storms with durations up to 24 hours and return periods of up to 100 years.
         (b)   All development, redevelopment, and earth changes shall be
constructed so that it will not increase the frequency of flooding or the depth
of flood flows for any storm, up to and including the 24-hour 100-year storm.
         (c)   Peak flows shall not be increased at any location for any storm,
up to and including the 24-hour 100-year storm.
         (d)   Regulation of peak flows to allowable levels, as determined by
divisions (C)(1)(a)(2) and (3) of this section, shall be achieved by on-site or
off-site storage and/or other water management facilities as provided in the
city drainage standards.
         (e)   Subject to requirements for a drainage plan or earth change
permit and of the city drainage standards, downstream conveyance may be
improved or easements obtained for inundated areas to compensate for increased
flow depths if such improvements comply with the policies of this chapter.
         (f)   All development, redevelopment, and earth changes shall be
constructed so that it will not cause harm to other properties as a result of
concentrating flows.
         (g)   On-site storm water control may not be required for sites less
than two and one-half acres in size if it is determined by the City Engineer
that storm water runoff from the site will not cause adverse effects as
described in this chapter. The City Engineer may request that the applicant
provide such information as required to make this determination. In such cases,
a cash payment in lieu of on-site storm water control will be made to the Storm
Water Management Fund in an amount equal to the estimated cost of providing on-
site storm water control.
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control policies.
         (a)   All development, redevelopment, and earth changes shall be
designed, constructed and completed in a manner which minimizes the exposure of
bare earth to precipitation.
         (b)   All development, redevelopment, and earth changes shall be
constructed only if appropriate sedimentation facilities are installed and
maintained throughout the construction period.
         (c)   All development, redevelopment, and earth changes shall be
accompanied by best management practices for controlling sediment and erosion
so as to minimize the amount of sediment leaving the site.
      (3)   Standards.
         (a)   Requirements and design standards for all components of drainage
facilities shall be established by the city drainage standards.
         (b)   The city drainage standards shall govern all earth changes,
drainage plans, excavating, grading, regrading, revegetation, landfilling,
berming and diking of land within the jurisdictional area of the city and shall
specifically regulate the following considerations:
            1.   The city drainage standards shall regulate the design,
installation, utilization and removal of all temporary and permanent drainage
facilities and best management practices; and
            2.   The city drainage standards shall regulate the placement and
compaction of fill material.
   (D)   Regional detention systems.
      (1)   Regional detention systems may be permitted and are recognized as
one of the preferred methods of providing storm water control. These systems
may be designed to control the fully urbanized flows so as to permit the
maximum use by developments in lieu of constructing small, on-site detention.
      (2)   If it is determined by the City Engineer that storm water runoff
from the site will cause adverse effects as described in this chapter, the site
shall not be eligible for the cash payment option. The City Engineer may
request that the applicant provide such information as required to make this
determination.
   (E)   Regulatory requirements.
      (1)   Develop all storm water design plans to ensure all applicable
regulations are met:
         (a)   Any applicable city codes;
         (b)   Any applicable State of Oklahoma statutes;
         (c)   Any applicable United State of America federal regulations.
      (2)   Develop all storm water system plans with applicable Oklahoma
Department of Environmental Quality (ODEQ) design standards and to ensure
proper permits are obtained.
   (F)   Construction plan requirements.
      (1)   Construction plan drawings shall include:
         (a)   Contour lines and spot elevations to support construction;
         (b)   Existing and proposed elevations;
         (c)   Existing and proposed structures with elevation information;
         (d)   Obstructions;
         (e)   Storage basins;
         (f)   Roadways, pavement, parking areas or other impervious surfaces;
         (g)   Curbs/gutters;
         (h)   All utilities (buried, elevated and/or abandoned);
         (i)   Easements, property lines, and rights-of-ways;
         (j)   Best management practices (BMPs) for erosion and sediment
control;
         (k)   All work limits;
         (l)   FEMA regulatory floodplain zones (floodway, 100-year, 500-year);
         (m)   Appropriate profiles and section details; and
         (n)   Directions of flow.
      (2)   Building elevations. At a minimum, plans shall include ground
elevations and grade at the buildings perimeter. Where buildings are within the
FEMA regulatory floodplain, base floor elevations shall be identified.
      (3)   Hydraulic gradient. Plans shall include hydraulic gradient lines
and/or 100-year floodplain water surface elevations, where applicable.
      (4)   Site context. Plans shall include any additional information for
areas outside of the site limits that may require modification as part of the
project to mitigate adverse impacts downstream.
      (5)   Easements and rights-of-way.
         (a)   All restricted drainage easements shall be clearly shown
detailed as to type, location, and width on the construction plans, record
drawings, and final plats, as well as described in the conditions and
restrictions of the plat or by separate instrument.
         (b)   Adequate right-of-way shall be provided for access and
maintenance to the drainage easement. Location and width shall be identified on
the construction plans, record drawings, and final plats, as well as described
in the conditions and restrictions of the plat or by separate instrument.
   (G)   Requirements for drainage reports and plans.
      (1)   Drainage report certification and submittal.
         (a)   The report to be submitted shall include a cover letter
presenting the study for review.
         (b)   Drainage reports shall be prepared following the guidelines
below and all reports and plans must be signed, sealed, and dated by a
professional engineer with certification that the report and plan is in
compliance with good engineering practice and the requirements of this code.
      (2)   Cover letter required. A cover letter shall accompany all
submittals and include the following:
         (a)   Summary statement identifying and characterizing (location, area
of project in acres, and proposed land use) the proposed land development
project and discussing how the project will adhere to the requirements of this
code.
         (b)   Brief description of drainage system components, the overall
concept of the proposed drainage system, and its interaction with existing
drainage facilities.
         (c)   Policy statement discussing the design criteria and any proposed
deviation from methodology, as set forth by this code.
      (3)   Preliminary drainage study. The report submitted as a preliminary
drainage study shall be formatted in accordance with the following outline and
contain all of the information listed:
         (a)   Project location map and information. The project location map
shall contain the following information:
            1.   Map with township, range, section, quarter section.
            2.   Name and address of property owner.
            3.   Legal description of property.
            4.   Streets within and adjacent to the project.
            5.   Names of surrounding developments.
         (b)   Existing drainage map. The existing drainage map shall show the
following:
            1.   Drainage area map at a scale of one inch equals 20 feet to one
inch equals 100 feet identifying all predevelopment drainage basins and sub
basins within and that contribute flow through or across the proposed land
development project.
            2.   Existing land use and predominant cover type (shrubs, trees,
grass).
            3.   Identify all existing basins and discharge points with unique
alphanumeric labels, list area of each basin in acres, and list runoff
coefficients or curve numbers appropriate for the existing land use.
            4.   Existing contours at two-foot maximum intervals for all basins
and sub basins.
            5.   Limits of floodplain and floodway located within or adjacent
to (within 75 feet of the property) the proposed land development project.
            6.   Existing drainage facilities within and adjacent to (within 75
feet of the property) the proposed land development project.
            7.   Location, size and type of easements within and adjacent to
the proposed land development project.
         (c)   Proposed drainage map. The proposed drainage map shall show the
following:
            1.   Drainage area map at same scale as existing drainage map
identifying all proposed (post-development) drainage basins and sub basins and
existing basins that will not be altered.
            2.   Identify all proposed basins and proposed discharge points
with unique alphanumeric labels, list area of each basin in acres, and list
runoff coefficients or curve numbers appropriate for the proposed land use.
            3.   Existing and proposed contours at two-foot maximum intervals
for all basins and sub basins.
            4.   Limits of floodplain and floodway located within or adjacent
to (within 75 feet of the property) the proposed land development project.
            5.   Existing drainage facilities to remain and proposed drainage
facilities within and adjacent to (within 75 feet of the property) the proposed
land development project.
            6.   Existing and proposed easements within and adjacent to (within
75 feet of the property) the proposed land development project.
         (d)   Hydrology and hydraulics. The hydrology and hydraulics shall
show the following:
            1.   A written summary of the existing drainage patterns and off-
site drainage patterns and impact on the proposed development.
            2.   A summary table of the following: existing (predevelopment)
hydrologic characteristics, including, but not limited to, discharge points,
basin areas, soil types, runoff coefficients, curve numbers, hydraulic lengths,
and time of concentration values; and assumptions, including a written
description of the basis for each assumption used in the calculations.
            3.   A summary table of hydrologic analysis results for all of the
basins and sub basins based on existing conditions for the minor and major
storm events.
            4.   A written general description of the proposed storm water
drainage facilities and methods for controlling the post-development drainage
including the proposed locations of storm water drainage facilities required to
mitigate any potential adverse impacts.
            5.   A summary table comparing existing and proposed peak flow
rates at each discharge point for the minor and major storm events.
            6.   Design rainfall data used for minor and major storms.
            7.   Hydraulic capacity calculations for all existing drainage
facilities that currently serve or will serve the proposed land development
project.
            8.   Volumetric computations for compensatory storage requirements
for any alterations of the floodplain.
      (4)   Final drainage study. The report submitted as a final drainage
study shall include a final drainage plan, shall be formatted in accordance
with the following outline, and shall contain all information listed for a
preliminary drainage study in addition to the following information:
         (a)   Drainage facility design. The drainage facility design shall
show the following:
            1.   Post-development hydrologic characteristics, including but not
limited to discharge points, basin areas, soil types, runoff coefficients,
curve numbers, hydraulic lengths, and time of concentration values); and
assumptions, including a written description of the basis for each assumption
used in the calculations.
            2.   A summary table of hydrologic analysis results for all of the
basins and sub basins based on proposed (fully developed) conditions for the
minor and major storm events.
            3.   A summary table of hydraulic capacity calculations for all
proposed drainage facilities, including but not limited to streets, storm
inlets, storm sewers, drainage channels, swales, culverts, and on-site or
regional detention facilities, that will serve the proposed development project
(on-site and off-site) or convey pass through runoff from upstream or off-site
basins and sub basins.
         (b)   Conclusions.
            1.   A written summary statement indicating compliance with this
code, the city drainage standards and the city standards, as well as any
accepted drainage plans, where applicable.
            2.   A detailed statement concerning the projected effects of the
proposed land development project on property adjoining the site and on
existing drainage facilities and systems both on- and off-site.
         (c)   References. List all design criteria and technical information
used.
         (d)   Appendices. The appendices shall contain the following:
            1.   Land use assumptions regarding adjacent properties.
            2.   Time of concentration flow path characteristics and
calculations.
            3.   Runoff calculations at specific design points on-site and off-
site.
            4.   Historic and fully developed runoff computations at points of
compliance.
            5.   Hydrographs at critical design points, if applicable.
            6.   Culvert capacity charts.
            7.   Storm sewer capacity calculations.
            8.   Street capacity calculations.
            9.   Storm inlet capacity calculations.
            10.   Open channel design calculations.
            11.   Grade control and/or channel drop design.
            12.   Detention area/volume capacity and outlet capacity
calculations (stage-storage discharge table).
            13.   Routing of off-site drainage flow through the development,
easements, and/or right-of-way dedications.
            14.   Location/alignment of watercourse and the appropriate
hydraulic analysis for any alteration of a watercourse.
            15.   Hydraulic analysis for compensatory storage requirements for
any alterations of the floodplain.
            16.   Detention facility outlet details and maintenance plan.
            17.   All appropriate FEMA submittal data and application for a
LOMR, if applicable.
      (5)   Final drainage plan.
         (a)   A drainage plan must contain a general location map in
sufficient detail to identify all surface drainage entering and leaving the
development and general drainage patterns. The map should be at a scale of one
inch equals 200 feet up to one inch equals 2,000 feet and show the path of all
drainage from the upper reach of any off-site basins to the defined major
drainage ways.
         (b)   Maps of the proposed development at a scale of one inch equals
20 feet to one inch equals 100 feet on a full size drawing (22 inches by 34
inches) oriented in plan view with north arrow and scale shall be included with
the drainage plan. The plan shall show the following:
            1.   Existing and proposed contours at one-foot maximum intervals.
            2.   Spot elevations and drainage arrows at all grade breaks within
the development and at all locations where proposed surface improvements tie
into existing grade around the perimeter of the property. In every instance,
the plan shall include topography a minimum of 75 feet beyond the limits of
proposed development.
            3.   Property lines, easements, and common areas with purposes
noted.
            4.   Streets, roads, and highways adjacent to the property.
            5.   Overall drainage area boundary and drainage sub-area
boundaries identified by bold, dashed lines.
            6.   Existing drainage facilities and structures, natural or
manmade, including roadside ditches, drainage ways, gutter flow directions, and
culverts. All pertinent information such as material, size, shape, slope and
location shall also be included.
            7.   Proposed storm sewers and open drainage ways, including
inlets, manholes, culverts, retaining walls, erosion control measures, and
other appurtenances.
            8.   Drainage arrows indicating individual lot grading patterns
shall be clearly illustrated. Surface drainage from the lesser of three
residential lots or three acres is allowed to combine before entering storm
water drainage facilities designed to collect and transport surface drainage.
            9.   Proposed discharge points for runoff from the project area and
all facilities designed to convey flows to the final outfall point without
adverse effects to downstream property.
            10.   The on-site 100-year flood elevations and the limits of
regulatory floodway, floodplain and/or water surfaces. In every instance, the
plan shall include a determination of the 100-year water surface elevation and
the area of inundation based on routing off-site drainage flow through the
development for a 100-year 24-hour storm.
            11.   Location and elevation of all existing and proposed utilities
affected by or affecting the drainage design.
            12.   Details for the construction of all proposed storm water
drainage facilities at a scale sufficient to demonstrate conformance with city
drainage standards and city standards shall be included. Details shall include,
but not be limited to, plan and profile view of all drainage facilities,
culvert and underground pipe trench details, detention storage and outlet
details, street inlet details, low-flow concrete swale and curb cut details and
channel and swale standard cross sections.
            13.   Water surface profiles for the major storm shall be computed
using standard backwater analysis (taking into consideration all losses due to
changes in velocity, drops, bridge openings, culverts, and other obstructions)
and delineated in the profile view of all channels and drainage facilities.
            14.   The existing and proposed surface area (in units of square
feet) of impervious materials for nonresidential land development projects
shall be calculated and included in tabular form for proper assignment of
equivalent residential units (ERUs) for drainage fees.
            15.   When construction is phased or when temporary facilities are
used, an outline of the sequence of construction activities shall be provided
that notes when the various aspects of the drainage study will be implemented.
   (H)   Drainage system requirements.
      (1)   Storm water drainage system design capacity.
         (a)   The storm water drainage system shall be designed to receive and
pass the runoff from a 1% (100-year) frequency rainstorm under full
urbanization. The entire flow shall be confined within the storm water drainage
system and shall include easements and drainage facilities within the public
rights-of-way.
         (b)   When roadways are used as a part of the storm water drainage
system, all street design requirements shall be followed.
      (2)   Storm water flow.
         (a)   The storm water flow of a collector system shall be designed
within the confines of dedicated rights-of-way or restricted drainage easements
to ensure that storm water runoff can pass through a project site without
inundating the lowest level of any building, dwelling, or structure.
         (b)   When storm water drainage system features are located between
buildings or lots rather than within the right-of-way of a street, designs
shall include restricted drainage easement as platted. City code prohibits
structures from being located within restricted drainage easements.
         (c)   The adjacent water surface elevation produced from a 1% (100-
year) storm shall be no closer than one foot from the finished floor of any
structure.
         (d)   Drainage easement language shall state on the plat that the
restricted drainage easement is provided for storm water flow, and that the
area shall be maintained by the property owner in accordance with the Land
Development Code.
      (3)   Bridges, culverts, and swales.
         (a)   All bridges shall be designed to pass the flow produced by the
regulatory 1% (100-year) storm with two feet of freeboard from the water
surface to the low chord of the bridge. All culverts determined to be bridge
box culverts, shall be designed to pass the flow produced by the regulatory 1%
(100-year) storm with two foot of freeboard from the water surface to the
inside top of the culvert.
         (b)   All culverts under roadways, regardless of size, shall be
designed to pass the flow produced by the regulatory 1% (100-year) storm with
one foot of freeboard from the water surface to the upstream edge of pavement,
for which backwater from 100% blockage would flood upstream structures.
Backwater analysis shall be provided to illustrate compliance with this
requirement.
         (c)   Maximum upstream headwater allowed shall be one and one-half
times the vertical interior dimension the culvert; the culverts shall be
designed to have overland relief in a restricted drainage easement or right-of-
way assuming 100% blockage of the culvert.
         (d)   Culverts, gutter lines, and associated longitudinal street
grades for all streets shall be designed without street overtopping for floods
produced by all storms up to and including the regulatory 1% (100-year) storm.
Where overtopping will occur, the design shall include roadside swales, storm
sewers or other storm water appurtenances.
         (e)   Culverts shall be designed such that backwater from the culvert
does not inundate any structure.
         (f)   Provide protective measures for culverts and embankments to
minimize embankment damage during overflow.
         (g)   When roadside swales without storm sewers are to convey storm
water, the swales shall convey the regulatory 1% (100-year) flow and have a
maximum depth of 30 inches to limit traffic and pedestrian safety hazards,
regardless of right-of-way width, slope or paved bottom. If a greater depth is
required, by design and/or site conditions, an alternative storm water
conveyance system must be used. Special considerations will be made for use of
engineered bioswales which require a greater depth than 30 inches; traffic and
pedestrian safety will be required to be addressed as part of the design.
Roadside swale cross-slopes shall be no steeper than 3:1 (H:V). Wherever
practical, side slopes of 4:1 (H:V) shall be required to allow for maintenance
safety.
         (h)   Roadside swales with vegetative cover shall have a longitudinal
slope of no less than 2% to ensure drainage. When slopes greater than 2% are
used, the channel must be designed to ensure that surfaces are protected from
erosion.
      (I)   Rainfall. All hydrological analyses for projects within the city
shall utilize the rainfall data published by the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Atlas 14 as the basis for rainfall intensity
or cumulative depth.
      (J)   Runoff.
         (1)   General.
            (a)   A drainage study which compares pre-project conditions to
proposed conditions and shall be developed and submitted as a report as part of
the design submittals.
            (b)   For new construction projects, “pre-project conditions”
refers to the natural state.
         (2)   Soil Conservation Service (SCS) Unit Hydrograph Method. The
method of runoff analysis that shall be used for the design of storm drainage
system components is the SCS Method.
            (a)   Soil-Cover Complex Number (CN) Determination. When using the
SCS unit hydrograph method for a sub-basin, the SCS basin lag time shall be
used in conjunction with the CN value to determine runoff. The soil type and
vegetative covers of a watershed are generally classified separately. A
combination of a specific soil type and a specific cover is referred to as a
Soil-Cover Complex Number (CN) and a measure of this complex can be used as a
watershed parameter in estimating runoff. The CN for each area in the
hydrologic analysis can be derived by first determining the classification of
the soil, and then choosing the CN from the NRCS Urban Hydrology For Small
Watersheds (TR-55 report).
            (b)   Basin characteristics. Sub-basin characteristics needed for
the SCS Unit Hydrograph Method are:
               1.   Drainage area of the sub-basin;
               2.   Longest flow path length;
               3.   Characteristics of individual flow paths that make up the
longest flow path (e.g., overland, grassed channel, gutter);
               4.   Slope of individual flow paths; and
               5.   Land use types and areas throughout the basin (e.g.,
agricultural, residential, business).
      (3)   Time of concentration. The time of concentration (Tc) for the basin
is made up of two time components, according to the following equation:
                     Tc = To + Tt
               Where:      Tc = time of concentration (minutes)
                     To = initial, inlet, or sheet flow time (minutes)
                     Tt= travel time in the ditch, channel, gutter, storm
sewer, etc. (minutes)
         (a)   For urban areas, the time of concentration consists of an
overland sheet flow time (To) plus the time of travel (Tt) in the storm sewer,
paved gutter, roadside drainage ditch, or drainage channel.
         (b)   For non-urban areas, the time of concentration consists of an
overland sheet flow time (to) plus the time of travel (Tt) in a combined form,
such as a small swale, channel, or drainage way.
         (c)   Overland sheet flow time, To, varies with surface slope, surface
coverage and distance of surface flow.
         (d)   Overland flow distance shall not exceed 200 feet.
         (e)   A one-minute time increment shall be used in developing the
rainfall distribution.
      (4)   Rational formula. The Rational Method shall only be used to
determine pipe sizes for storm water drainage systems. It shall not be used for
any routing calculations for storm water storage facilities.
         (a)   The Rational Method, using the Wright-McLaughlin modifier
(correction factor) is based on the formula:
                     Q = CIA
               Where:    Q = peak discharge, (cubic feet per second, cfs)
                     C = runoff coefficient (dimensionless) (see Table 1800.2
or 1800.3)
                     I = rainfall intensity for a duration equal to the time of
concentration, (inches/hour)
                     A = watershed area (acres)
         (b)   Runoff coefficient. Runoff coefficients for different land use
or surface characteristics are found in Table x. If the sub basin is not
homogeneous in its land use type, then a composite runoff coefficient should be
calculated by averaging the areas of different runoff coefficients.
         (c)   Rainfall intensity. The rainfall intensity is the average
rainfall rate in inches per hour for the period of maximum rainfall of a given
frequency having a duration equal to the time of concentration. As described in
the February 1988 ODOT Drainage Design Manual, the following equations shall be
used. The most current ODOT Intensity-Duration-Frequency curves shall supersede
this information.
                     I = a/(Tc+b)c
               Where:    I = rainfall Intensity (inches per hour)
                     Tc = time of concentration (minutes)
                     a,b,c = defined through regression of NOAA Atlas 14 data
(Ord. 3055, passed 12-21-99; Am. Ord. 3294, passed 9-6-16)
§ 4-404 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary structures may be used to control erosion and sedimentation
on sites while under construction.
   (B)   While each site varies in size, shape and topography, the City Manager
or his or her designee shall approve any one of the following types of
temporary control depending on conditions specific to the site and on a case-
by-case basis.
      (1)   Dikes. A diversion, interceptor or perimeter dike may be
constructed on a site to control the stormwater run-off. The design drainage
area for dikes shall not exceed five acres. Dikes shall not be constructed with
a top width less than two feet or a height less than one foot six inches or
side slopes steeper than a two to one ratio.
      (2)   Swales. An interceptor or perimeter swale may be allowed on a site
where the design drainage area does not exceed five acres. Swales shall not be
constructed with a bottom width less than four feet, a depth less than one
foot, a grade less than 1% or slopes steeper than a two to one ratio.
      (3)   Straw bale dike. Straw bales shall not be allowed except in unusual
circumstances when no other erosion control method would be effective.
      (4)   Silt fence. A silt fence may be constructed near the perimeter of a
disturbed area to intercept sediment while allowing water to percolate through.
The fence shall not encompass a drainage area more than two acres in size or be
less than 30 inches in height. The fencing material shall be burlap,
polypropylene fabric or nylon reinforced polyester netting or other equivalent
materials designed for the same purpose. Steel fence posts spaced at a maximum
of eight feet apart shall support the fence. Silt fences shall not be used
where there is a concentration of water in a channel or other drainage.
      (5)   Entrances. A stabilized construction entrance shall be built to
reduce or eliminate the tracking or flowing of sediment onto public streets
and/or rights-of-way.
      (6)   Stone outlets. A stone outlet structure shall be constructed in
areas where the entire drainage area to the structure is not stabilized or
where there is a need to dispose run-off at a protected outlet or where
concentrated flow for the duration of the period of construction needs to be
diffused.
      (7)   Paved chute. A grade stabilization structure in the form of a paved
chute or flume shall be constructed to prevent erosion, where concentrated flow
of surface run-off is to be conveyed down a slope. The maximum allowable
drainage area upstream of a structure shall not exceed 36 acres.
      (8)   Pipe slope drain. A grade stabilization structure in the form of a
pipe slope drain shall be constructed to prevent erosion where concentrated
flow of surface run-off is to be conveyed down a slope. The maximum allowable
drainage area upstream of a structure shall not exceed five acres.
      (9)   Temporary sedimentation basins. Storm water detention facilities
may be used temporarily as sediment basins.
         (a)   A temporary outlet structure for the storm water detention
facility to work as a sediment pond shall be constructed.
         (b)   At the end of the construction activity, the developer shall
make sure that the outlet structure shall meet the design requirements of a
storm water detention facility.
         (c)   Condition of the detention facility that is used as a sediment
pond during construction shall meet the following requirements at the time of
acceptance.
         (d)   It shall be completely cleaned by the developer and rid of any
immediate maintenance.
         (e)   It shall meet all design standards.
      (10)    Sediment trap. A sediment trap, a small temporary basin usually
installed in a drainage way at a storm drain inlet, shall not exceed five acres
and shall have at least 1,800 cubic feet per acre of drainage. Sediment trap
embankments shall not exceed five feet in height, the top width shall not be
less than three feet and the slopes shall have a ratio of two to one or
flatter.
   (C) Temporary structures shall remain in place until permanent vegetation is
established.
(Ord. 3055, passed 12-21-99)
§ 4-405 PERMANENT STRUCTURES.
   When permanent structures are required to control storm water run-off during
and after construction on sites the following shall apply:
   (A)   Depending on the project layout, a diversion shall be constructed
across a slope less than 15% to:
      (1)   Prevent run-off from higher areas having a potential for causing
erosion and thereby interfere with the establishment of vegetation on lower
areas; and
      (2)   Reduce the length of slopes to minimize soil loss.
   (B)   Diversions need be constructed only below stabilized or protected
areas.
   (C)   Outlets from diversions shall be constructed to discharge in a manner
as not to cause erosion.
   (D)   Outlets shall be constructed and stabilized prior to the operation of
diversions.
   (E)   Storm drain outlet protection shall be provided when converting pipe
flow to channel flow. The reduction in velocity shall be sufficient to slow the
flow of water and dissipate the energy of discharge equal to the receiving
waterway. The reduction in velocity may be accomplished by providing mortared
riprap stabilization, providing energy dissipaters or providing permanent
vegetation, depending on specific needs.
(Ord. 3055, passed 12-21-99)
§ 4-406 VEGETATIVE PRACTICES.
   (A)   For the purpose of controlling erosion on construction sites temporary
vegetation shall be planted. To achieve best results in establishing ground
cover quickly, small grains like oats, rye, wheat, sudans and sorghums shall be
used.
   (B)   Prior to seeding, needed erosion control practices such as diversions,
grade stabilization structures, berms, dikes and the like shall be installed.
   (C)   Temporary vegetation practice shall be applied prior to the completion
of final grading of the site.
   (D)   If the area to be seeded is packed, crusted and hard the top layer of
soil shall be loosened by suitable means.
   (E)   Areas that are not well covered shall be replanted.
   (F)   The seeded area shall be watered when feasible and needed.
   (G)   (1)   Permanent vegetation shall be used to control erosion.
      (2)   Prior to seeding needed erosion control practices such as dikes,
swales, diversions and the like shall be installed.
      (3)   Mulch shall be used where needed.
      (4)   The area shall be watered daily or as often as necessary to
maintain adequate soil moisture.
(Ord. 3055, passed 12-21-99)
§ 4-407 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or joint venture,
agent, subcontractor, contractor or employee thereof who shall violate any of
the provisions of this article shall be guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the current
amount established in §
12-34 of this code. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3055, passed 12-21-99)
ARTICLE 21: INTERNATIONAL ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE
§ 4-420 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS 2018
EDITION ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted a certain document marked and designated as
the International Residential Code For One-And Two- Family Dwellings, as
published by the International Code Council, 2018 edition, for regulating the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
building, mechanical, plumbing and electrical systems in the city and providing
that all of the regulations, provisions, appendices, standards, indexes,
modifications, conditions and terms of such International Residential Code,
2018 edition, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this section.
   (B)   The following sections of said International Residential Code for One-
And Two-Family Dwellings, 2018 edition, are hereby revised accordingly:
      (1)   Section R101.1, Insert: “City of Guthrie.”
      (2)   Section R301.2(1), Insert:   “Roof snow load: Pounds per square
feet-10
                     Wind Pressure: Pounds per square feet-90
                     Seismic Condition by Zone 1
                     Weathering: Moderate
                     Frost Line Depth: Yes – Average 18"
                     Termite: Moderate to Heavy
                     Decay: Slight to Moderate
                     Winter Design Temp for Heating Facilities: 68°
                     Radon – Resistant Construction
                     Required: No”
      (3)   Section P2603.6.1, (sewer depth) Insert: “12 inch minimum for
septic tanks.” Insert “12 inch minimum for public sewer.”
      (4)   All amendments and modifications to the IRC 2018 Edition, as
drafted by the State of Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission are adopted
as an addendum and made part of this section.
(Ord. 3063, passed 4-18-00; Am. Ord. 3144, passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 3190,
passed 2-5-08; Am. Ord. 3233A, passed 8-21-12; Am. Ord. 3301, passed 10-4-16;
Am. Ord. 3382, passed 2-7-2023)
§ 4-421 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, contractor or employee thereof who shall
violate any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of an offense and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the current
dollar amount established in §
12-34 of this code. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3063, passed 4-18-00)
ARTICLE 22: RESERVED
ARTICLE 23: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 4-425 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE FOR EXISTING RESIDENTIAL AND
NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES AND ALL EXISTING PREMISES ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted a certain document marked and designated as
the International Property Maintenance Code as published by the International
Code Council, 2009 Edition, to establish minimum requirements and standards for
premises, structures, equipment, facilities for light, ventilation, space,
heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from
fire and other hazards, and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the
responsibility of owners, operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing
structures and premises, and for administration, enforcement and penalties
within the city, and providing that all of the regulations, provisions,
appendices, standards, indexes, modifications, conditions and terms of such
International Property Maintenance Code, 2009 edition, are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section.
   (B)   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code,
2009 edition, are hereby revised accordingly:
      (1)   Section 101.1, Insert: “City of Guthrie.”
      (2)   Section 103.5, Insert: “City of Guthrie's Master Fee Schedule.”
      (3)   All sections as amended, modified and drafted by the State of
Oklahoma’s Uniform Building Code Commission are adopted as an addendum and made
part of this section.    
(Ord. 3240, passed 8-21-12)
§ 4-426 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Nothing in this article or in the International Property Maintenance Code,
2009 edition hereby adopted, shall be construed to affect any suit or
proceeding impending in any court, or any rights acquired or existing, under
any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in §
4-425; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost,
impaired or affected by this article.
(Ord. 3240, passed 8-21-12)
CHAPTER 5: BUSINESS AND OCCUPATIONS
Article 1: License Taxes
   
5-1.   Taxes levied
   
5-2.   Payments
   
5-3.   License not transferable
   
5-4.   Operation requirements; license
Article 2: Marble Machines
   
5-15.   Minors; unlawful presence
   
5-16.   Cancellation of license
Article 3: Pool and Billiards Halls
   
5-30.   Minors; unlawful presence; permission
   
5-31.   Hours of operation
Article 4: Telephone Exchanges
   
5-45.   Charge levied
   
5-46.   Charge in lieu of other fees
Article 5: Concession Stands
   
5-60.   Tax levied
   
5-61.   License required
   
5-62.   Definition
Article 6: Pawnbrokers
   
5-75.   Finance charges for loans
   
5-76.   Reserved
   
5-77.   Multiple agreements
Article 7: Billboards
   
5-90.   Construction
   
5-91.   Loose papers and the like
   
5-92.   Posting bills on poles
   
5-93.   Defacing bills
Article 8: Merchandise Delivery/Residential Sales
   
5-105.   Delivery from alley; exceptions
   
5-106.   Definitions
   
5-107.   License required
   
5-108.   Display of goods
   
5-109.   Application
   
5-110.   Issuance; terms
   
5-111.   License fee
   
5-112.   Interval between sales
   
5-113.   Signs
   
5-114.   Revocation and refusal
   
5-115.   Separate violations
   
5-116.   Exemptions
   
5-117.   Penalty
Article 9: Mobile Food Vendors, Canvassers, Solicitors, Itinerant Merchants and
Peddlers
   
5-125.   License required
   
5-126.   Definitions
   
5-127.   Application
   
5-128.   Police investigation
   
5-129.   Issuance and fees
   
5-130.   Display; hours of solicitation
   
5-131.   Revocation of license
   
5-132.   Appeal
   
5-133.   Geographical restrictions
 
   
5-145.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: LICENSE TAXES
§ 5-1 TAXES LEVIED.
   There shall be, and is hereby levied on each occupation or business herein
named and carried on in the city and upon the persons conducting the same, an
annual license tax, which each person or business conducting the same shall be
required to pay cash in advance as set out at the end of this code of
ordinances.
(`90 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 2605, passed - -)
§ 5-2 PAYMENTS.
   All license taxes enumerated herein shall be payable annually, cash in
advance, to-wit: on July 1 of each year. Any license applied for after the
first half of the fiscal year has passed may be issued or not less than one-
half of the annual license or occupation tax above provided for.
(`90 Code, § 5-2)
§ 5-3 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued shall be transferable without the consent of the City
Council having been first obtained.
(`90 Code, § 5-3)
§ 5-4 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS; LICENSE.
   The conducting of any occupation or the operation of any device or machine
herein mentioned, without having paid the license fee therefor, shall be deemed
an offense and any person, firm or corporation operating without a license
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and each days’ operation without a license
shall be considered a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 5-4)
ARTICLE 2: MARBLE MACHINES
§ 5-15 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to play any
marble table within the corporate limits of the city. It shall further be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating a marble table within
the corporate limits of the city to permit persons under 21 years of age to
play marble tables.
(`90 Code, § 5-14)
§ 5-16 CANCELLATION OF LICENSE.
   Any individual person, firm or corporation operating a marble table or
tables under a license issued by the city who shall permit minors to play
thereon, shall forfeit the license and the license shall, upon conviction of
the party in Municipal Court of the city, be immediately canceled.
(`90 Code, § 5-15)
ARTICLE 3: POOL AND BILLIARDS HALLS
§ 5-30 MINORS; UNLAWFUL PRESENCE; PERMISSION.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall frequent any billiard hall
or place kept for the purpose of selling intoxicating liquors, playing
billiards, pool or any similar game.
(`90 Code, § 5-17)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is the keeper or has the
charge, care, management or control of any billiard hall or place used for the
purpose of selling liquor, playing billiards, pool or any similar game, to
suffer or permit any person under the age of 21 years to be or remain in the
place, or to suffer or permit any persons under the age of 21 years to play at
any game or premises or place.
(`90 Code, § 5-18)
§ 5-31 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Every person, firm or corporation conducting a business of operating a pool
hall or billiard hall, including the game of snooker, in the city, who shall
permit the games of pool, billiards or snooker to be played therein between the
hours of 12:00 midnight on Saturday and 12:00 noon on Sunday, shall be deemed
guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 5-19)
ARTICLE 4: TELEPHONE EXCHANGES
§ 5-45 CHARGE LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge
upon each and every person, firm or corporation operating a telephone exchange
in the city, in an amount equal to 2% of the gross revenues for each current
year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the
limits of the city, to compensate the city for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulation and police control of the construction of lines and equipment
of telephone companies in the city.
   (B)   The inspection fee and charge shall be due and payable to the city on
or before May 1 of each year and shall be paid into and appropriated and
expended from the general revenue fund of the city.
(`90 Code, § 5-20)
§ 5-46 CHARGE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES.
   During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this article by
the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege and permit fees, except special assessments and ad valorem taxes. It
is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing arrangement
whereby the city is permitted to use underground conduit, duct space or pole
contacts of the company for the fire alarm and/or police call systems of the
city.
(`90 Code, § 5-21)
ARTICLE 5: CONCESSION STANDS
§ 5-60 TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied a license tax for the operation of each concession
stand in the city, whether on private property or in the streets or alleys of
the city.
(`90 Code, § 5-22)
§ 5-61 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No one shall operate a concession stand in the city without first having
obtained a permit therefor from and having paid to the City Clerk the daily
license fee.
(`90 Code, § 5-23)
§ 5-62 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONCESSION STAND. All types of games and selling booths usually found in
connection with carnivals.
(`90 Code, § 5-24)
ARTICLE 6: PAWNBROKERS
§ 5-75 FINANCE CHARGES FOR LOANS.
   Pawn finance charges shall comply with the provisions of 59 O.S. §§ 1510 and
1511, and the provisions of the Oklahoma Pawnshop Act, 59 O.S. §§ 1501 et seq.
shall apply to all pawn transactions and pawnbrokers within the city.
(`90 Code, § 5-25)
§ 5-76 RESERVED.
§ 5-77 MULTIPLE AGREEMENTS.
   No pawnbroker may permit any person, or husband and wife, to become
obligated in any way under more than one loan agreement with the lender with
intent to obtain a higher rate of loan finance charge than would otherwise be
permitted by the provisions on loan finance charge to avoid disclosure of the
annual percentage rate.
(59 O.S. § 1511) (`90 Code, § 5-26)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see 59 O.S. § 1511
ARTICLE 7: BILLBOARDS
§ 5-90 CONSTRUCTION.
   All billboards hereafter erected or constructed in the city shall comply
with the following specifications:
   (A)   All billboards shall be built of shiplap, flooring or other materials
as may be approved by the Building Inspector, with the face of billboards to be
dressed and boards to be built upright.
   (B)   All posts shall be not less than four inches by four inches and not
more than seven feet apart.
   (C)   Posts shall be planted in the ground to a depth of at least four feet.
All billboards shall be firmly braced in the rear.
(`90 Code, § 5-28)
§ 5-91 LOOSE PAPERS AND THE LIKE.
   When any papers or bills shall become loose from any billboard in the city,
the papers, bills or rubbish shall be taken to some safe and convenient place
and immediately destroyed by the owner or owners of the billboard.
(`90 Code, § 5-29)
§ 5-92 POSTING BILLS ON POLES.
   No bill poster or other person shall post or in any manner put up any
written or printed bill notice or advertisement upon any gas, telephone or
other post, or public building within the city, or upon any private building or
fence without first having obtained the consent, in writing, of the owner or
lessee thereof. Any bill poster or other person violating the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 5-30)
§ 5-93 DEFACING BILLS.
   Any person who shall wilfully deface or destroy any bill or poster posted by
a bill poster upon any place where a bill poster shall have the right to place
the same within the city shall be guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 5-31)
ARTICLE 8: MERCHANDISE DELIVERY/RESIDENTIAL SALES
§ 5-105 DELIVERY FROM ALLEY; EXCEPTIONS.
   Servicing or delivery of merchandise to stores and other retail businesses
or establishments in the city from the streets of the city, is hereby
prohibited, excepting however, the provision hereof shall not be applicable to
a store, business or other retail establishment where the store, business or
other retail establishment has no entrance or direct connection from an alley,
and shall not be applicable to delivery of ice and water. Otherwise, all
deliveries and servicing of the merchandise, as herein designated, to the
businesses shall be only from an alley.
(`90 Code, § 5-32)
§ 5-106 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NEIGHBORHOOD SALE. Any sale commonly known as a garage, porch, room,
backyard or patio sale or any other type of general sale conducted from or on
any premises located in a residential zoning district where goods or articles
of any type are held for sale to the public that is held by a recognized
homeowners association, organized neighborhood group or six or more homes in a
contiguous area.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which is owned, utilized and maintained by any
individual or members of his or her residence and acquired in the normal course
of living in or maintaining a residence, but not including motor vehicles. It
does not include merchandise which was purchased for resale or obtained on
consignment, or food items not grown on the premises.
   RESIDENTIAL SALE. Any sale commonly known as a garage, porch, room, backyard
or patio sale or any other type of general sale conducted from or on any
premises located in a residential zoning district.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
§ 5-107 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall hold, conduct, engage in or participate in any manner,
in a residential sale or neighborhood sale without a license as provided for in
this article.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each location at which a
residential is to be held, and no location shall be eligible for more than two
licenses in any three-month period.
   (C)   A license shall be required for a neighborhood sale and no
neighborhood shall be eligible for more than one license each year.
Participation in a neighborhood garage sale will not affect an individual
property owner’s right to his allowed garage sales.
   (D)   The permittee shall be responsible for having the license readily
available for inspection and posting the license in a conspicuous place at the
site of the residential or neighborhood sale throughout the duration of the
sale.
   (E)   Failure to obtain a license required by this article shall be deemed a
violation of the Code. Failure to have the license readily available for
inspection or failure to post in accordance with this article shall be deemed a
violation of this Code.
   (F)   The issuance of a license under the provisions of this article shall
not exempt the license from the terms and provisions of other ordinances.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
§ 5-108 DISPLAY OF GOODS.
   The sale area of any residential or neighborhood sale shall be confined to
the premises for which the license has been issued, and in no event shall
articles or goods be so displayed as to attract attention or be conspicuously
in view from any public street. No personal property offered for sale shall be
displayed in any public street or right-of-way.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
§ 5-109 APPLICATION.
   An applicant for a license shall furnish the City Clerk with the following
information:
   (A)   Full name and address of applicant;
   (B)   The location of the proposed residential sale or locations of the
proposed neighborhood sale;
   (C)   The date or dates upon which the sale shall be held; and
   (D)   An affidavit from the applicant or applicants to the effect that all
goods to be sold at the residential or neighborhood sale are owned by the
applicant and have not been obtained for the purpose of reselling them at the
sale.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
§ 5-110 ISSUANCE; TERMS.
   (A)   Permit issued for three or less consecutive days. The City Clerk is
hereby authorized to grant a license for a residential or neighborhood sale for
a period not to exceed three consecutive days to any person applying who
otherwise complies with the requirements of this article.
   (B)   Exception if sale not held because of inclement weather or other
emergency causes. If a residential or neighborhood sale is not held on the
dates for which the license is issued or is terminated during the first day of
the sale because of inclement weather conditions or other emergency causes
(including, but not limited to fire, illness, natural disaster or other
emergency beyond the control of the applicant) the permittee may submit a
written statement which states the particular reasons why the sale was not
held. The City Clerk may issue another license to the applicant for a
residential or neighborhood sale to be conducted at the same location(s) within
30 days from the date when the first sale was to be held. No additional license
fee is required.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
§ 5-111 LICENSE FEE.
   Residential and neighborhood sale license fees are as set forth in the fee
schedule at the end of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
§ 5-112 INTERVAL BETWEEN SALES.
   No person shall hold, conduct, engage in or participate in any manner or
allow a residential sale to be held or conducted on same premises under his or
her control or ownership more than two times in any three-month period, and no
person shall hold, conduct, engage in or participate in any manner or allow a
neighborhood sale to be held or conducted on premises under his or her control
or ownership more than one time in any 12-month period, subject, however, to
the exception allowed in §
5-110.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
§ 5-113 SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs permitted. Only the following specified signs may be displayed
in relation to a pending residential or neighborhood sale:
      (1)   Residential sale.
         (a)   On-site sign permitted. Only signs provided by the city are
allowed. One sign shall be permitted and must be displayed on the property of
the residence where the residential sale is being conducted.
         (b)   Off-site signs permitted. Only signs provided by the city are
allowed. Two signs shall be permitted to be displayed on city’s right-of way.
The sign must be posted as to not block the view of traffic.
         (c)   Prohibited signs. No signs shall be erected, placed, posted or
otherwise displayed on any public street signs and posts, traffic signs and
posts, or upon a public utility pole, street light, or street light standard.
      (2)   Neighborhood sale.
         (a)   On-site sign permitted. Only signs provide by the city are
allowed. One sign shall be permitted and must be displayed on the property of
the residence where the neighborhood sale is being conducted.
         (b)   Off-site signs permitted. Only signs provided by the city are
allowed. Two signs shall be permitted to be displayed on city’s right-of way.
The sign must be posted as to not block the view of traffic.
         (c)   Prohibited signs. No signs shall be erected, placed, posted or
otherwise displayed on any public street signs and posts, traffic signs and
posts, or upon a public utility pole, street light, or street light standard.
   (B)   Time limitation. Such signs shall not be erected sooner than the day
of the sale and all signs must be removed at the close of the residential or
neighborhood sale activities.
   (C)   Removal of signs. The person to whom a residential or neighborhood
sale permit was issued shall be responsible for removing any such signs.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
§ 5-114 REVOCATION AND REFUSAL.
   (A)   Revocation or refusal of license; false information. Any license
issued under this article may be revoked or any application for issuance of a
license may be refused by the City Clerk if the application submitted by the
applicant or license holder contains any false, fraudulent or misleading
information.
   (B)   If any person pleads guilty or is otherwise convicted of an offense
under this article, the City Clerk is instructed to cancel any existing
residential sale license held by the person convicted and not to issue the
person another residential sale license or neighborhood sale license for a
period of one year from the time of conviction.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
§ 5-115 SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   Every day a sale is conducted in violation of this article, the sale shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
§ 5-116 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply or affect the following:
   (A)   Persons acting pursuant to an order of a court of competent
jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   (C)   Duly licensed auctioneers selling at auctions; and
   (D)   Charitable organizations or persons, when the proceeds from the sale
are used directly for charitable purposes and the goods or articles are not
sold on a consignment basis. Persons or organizations exempted under this
section must obtain a license, but without payment of fee.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
§ 5-117 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter, or fails to pay any license tax or to secure any license or permit
required by this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished as provided in this code of ordinances. Each day upon
which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article is subject
to arrest and shall be guilty of an offense and shall, upon conviction thereof
in Municipal Court, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 per offense, plus
court costs. Each day the violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 3204, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 3221, passed 6-7-11)
ARTICLE 9: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS, CANVASSERS, SOLICITORS,
ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND PEDDLERS
§ 5-125 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any mobile food vendor, canvasser, solicitor,
itinerant merchant or peddler as defined in §
5-126, to engage in such business within the corporate limits of the city
without first filing a completed application for license and obtaining a
license therefor in strict compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2972, passed 5-18-93; Am. Ord. 3093, passed 10-16-01; Am. Ord. 3259,
passed 8-19-14)
§ 5-126 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual or natural person, not having a
permanent residence in the corporate limits of the city, traveling by foot,
wagon, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house, or from street to street, for the sale, as well as
the selling, offering for sale or taking or attempting to take orders for the
sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any kind or nature
whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in
the future, whether or not the individual has, carries or exposes for sale a
sample of the subject of the sale or not, or whether he or she is collecting
advance payments on the sales or not. The definition shall include any person
who, for himself or herself, or for another person, hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room,
lodging house, apartment, ship or any other place within this city for the sole
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery. For the
purposes of this article, local school, church organization or other local
civic or charitable organizations which are located within the county shall not
be considered a CANVASSER or SOLICITOR.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the city or his or her appointed
designee.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her appointed designee.
   CRITICAL VIOLATIONS OR PRIORITY ISSUES. Violations noted in an inspection of
a food establishment that are more likely to contribute to food contamination,
illness, or environmental health hazard and are denoted in OAC 310:257-15-41.
   EXEMPTIONS. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Sale of goods, wares or merchandise made to dealers or retailers by
any commercial traveler or sales agent in the usual course of business.
      (2)   Delivery of goods, wares or merchandise to a regular customer under
any general or customary arrangement as might be made with a regular clientele.
      (3)   Sale of farm or dairy products produced or grown by the persons
selling or offering them for sale.
      (4)   Gratuitous dissemination of any materials with a respect to
noncommercial matters.
      (5)   Sale of goods, wares and merchandise by any charitable or religious
organization or association.
      (6)   Sale of goods, wares and merchandise made as part of any
residential garage or yard sale.
      (7)   Sale of goods, wares and merchandise made as part of any art and
crafts festival, show, bazaar, bake sale or summer event lasting not longer
than three days.
      (8)   Sale of goods, wares and merchandise made by any person under the
age of 18 who engages in a business as an itinerant merchant.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage or
ingredient used or intended for use or for sale, in whole or in part, for human
consumption.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   Any place where food is prepared and intended for individual
portion service, and includes the site at which individual portions are
provided. FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT includes the following:
         (a)   Establishments which are covered by the permit, license or
certificate requirement of the state.
         (b)   Any such place regardless of whether consumption is on or off
the premises and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
         (c)   Delicatessen-type operations that prepare sandwiches intended
for individual portion service.
      (2)   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT does not include private homes where
food is prepared or served for individual family consumption, the location of
food vending machines, and supply vehicles.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT or PEDDLER. Any person, whether its owner, agent,
consignee, or employee, whether a resident of this city or not, who engages in
a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise
within the city, and who in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar or
public room in hotels, lodging houses, apartments, shops, or any street, alley,
public or private parking lot, or other places within the city, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction provided that such definition shall not be construed to
include any person, firm or corporation who, while occupying such temporary
location, does not sell from stock, but exhibits samples only for the purpose
of securing orders for future delivery only. The person so engaged shall not be
relieved from complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of
associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer,
or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or
in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer. ITINERANT
MERCHANTS shall also include transient merchants and itinerant peddlers.
PEDDLERS shall be any person whether a resident of the City of Guthrie or not,
traveling by foot, wagon, motor vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying,
conveying or transporting goods, wares or merchandise offering and exposing the
same for sale, making sales and delivering articles to purchasers. The word
PEDDLER shall also include the words “Rocker and Huckster.”
   LAW. All applicable federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, and
regulations.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   (a)   One of two types of mobile food units:
            1.   A restricted unit that offers only prepackaged food in
individual servings; beverages that are not potentially hazardous and are
dispensed from covered urns or other protected vessels; and prepackaged frozen
foods. Preparation, assembly or cooking of foods is not allowed.
            2.   An unrestricted unit that may serve food as allowed in
division (1)(a)1., may cook, prepare and assemble a full menu of food items;
         (b)   An unrestricted unit must be secured and completely enclosed.
         (c)   Foods such as hot dogs, coffee, or shaved ice, or food with
prior approval from the Logan County Health Department, may be served from
vehicles with three sides and a cover.
      (2)   This definition includes the following categories of mobile food
establishments: full-service mobile, pre-packaged mobile, pushcart, and
prepackaged pushcart, as set forth in OAC 310:251-17-1 through 310:257-17-6 and
other Oklahoma State Department of Health regulations and guidelines issued in
accordance with 63 O.S. § 1-1101 et seq.
   PACKAGED. Bottled, canned, cartoned, or securely wrapped.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, governmental entity, or any
other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. The individual present in a food service establishment who
is the apparent supervisor of the food service establishment at the time of
inspection. If no individual is the apparent supervisor, then any employee
present is the PERSON IN CHARGE.
   REGULATORY AUTHORITY. The state and/or local enforcement authority or
authorities having jurisdiction over the food service establishment.
   REPEATED VIOLATION. Violation of the same item on two consecutive
inspections.
   SUPERVISORY PERSONNEL. The certificate holder, individuals having
supervisory or management duties and any other person working in a food service
establishment who may be in charge of its operation.
   TEMPORARY. A food service establishment that operates at a fixed location
for a period of time of not more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a
single event or celebration.
(Ord. 2972, passed 5-18-93; Am. Ord. 3093, passed 10-16-01; Am. Ord. 3259,
passed 8-19-14)
§ 5-127 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for license under this article shall file a written sworn
application signed by the applicant, if an individual, by a majority of
partners if a partnership, and by the president or chief executive officer if a
corporation, association, club or society with the city clerk, showing:
   (A)   With respect to the applicant:
      (1)   Name, permanent address and local address, if any, telephone
number, and, driver’s license;
      (2)   Name of the person having the management or supervision of the
applicant’s business during the time such business will be carried on in the
city; the permanent address or addresses of such person; the local address of
such person;
      (3)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose
account the business will be carried on, if any;
      (4)   Capacity in which the applicant will act (that is whether as
proprietor, agent or otherwise);
      (5)   If applicant is a corporation, under the laws of what state the
same is incorporated;
   (B)   Divisions (D), (E), and (I) shall not apply to an applicant for an
itinerant merchant’s license operating a mobile food service establishment as
defined by §
12-20 of this code;
   (C)   The operator of a mobile food service establishment as defined by §
12-20 of this code applying for an itinerant merchant’s license shall provide
the City Clerk a copy of a current food service establishment license issued by
the Payne County Health Department. Said operator shall provide the City Clerk
a copy of any renewal of such food service establishment license within 30 days
of receipt thereof during the term of any itinerant merchant’s license issued
under this section;
   (D)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
   (E)   The length of time during which it is proposed that said business
shall be conducted;
   (F)   If applicant is applying for an itinerant merchant’s license, the
place, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant where
applicant within the six months next preceding the date of the application
conducted a temporary business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post
office and street address of any building or office in which such business was
conducted;
   (G)   With respect to the goods, wares or merchandise to be sold or offered
for sale, a statement of:
      (1)   Their nature or kind;
      (2)   Their invoice value and quality;
      (3)   Whether they are to be sold at auction, or by direct sale, or by
direct sale and by taking orders for future delivery;
      (4)   Where they are manufactured or produced;
      (5)   Where they are located at the time the application is filed;
   (H)   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done
or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, (such as handbills,
circular newspaper advertising, radio advertising, etc.);
   (I)   Whether or not the person having the management or supervision of the
applicant’s business have been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor or the
violation of any city ordinance, the nature of such offense and the punishment
assessed therefor;
   (J)   A copy of the applicant’s state sales tax permit including the sales
tax permit number, or if the applicant is a charitable or religious
organization, a copy of the applicant’s state sales tax exemption;
   (K)   If the application requests an itinerant merchant’s license, written
approval from the Director of Development Services, or designee, approving the
place within the city where the temporary business will be located.
(Ord. 2972, passed 5-18-93; Am. Ord. 3259, passed 8-19-14)
§ 5-128 POLICE INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application, the application shall be referred to
the Chief of Police, who shall cause the investigation of the applicant’s
business and moral character to be made as he or she deems necessary for the
protection of the public good. A seven-day waiting period shall be provided
from the date of receipt of the application in which to complete the
investigation.
   (B)   If as a result of the investigation, the application is determined to
be incomplete, misleading, fraudulent or false or if the applicant’s character
or business responsibility is found to be incomplete or unsatisfactory, the
Chief of Police shall endorse on the application his or her disapproval and
return the application to the City Clerk, who shall give written notice to the
applicant that his or her application is disapproved.
   (C)   If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be adequate or satisfactory, the
Chief of Police shall endorse on the application his or her approval and return
the application to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2972, passed 5-18-93; Am. Ord. 3093, passed 10-16-01)
§ 5-129 ISSUANCE AND FEES.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of the approved application from the Chief of Police,
and upon payment by the applicant of the prescribed license fee, the City Clerk
shall issue the license on a certificate deemed appropriate by the City Clerk.
Licenses for mobile food vendors, canvassers, solicitors, itinerant merchants,
or peddlers shall be effective for a term of one year from the date of issuance
and shall include an identification badge to be issued by the city.
   (B)   Fees:
      (1)   Solicitors who reside within the city limits shall be charged a
license fee of $75.00.
      (2)   Solicitors who do not reside within the city limits shall be
charged a license fee of $250.00.
   (C)   All solicitors, as defined in Section
5-126 of this code, shall be issued an identification badge by the City of
Guthrie. This badge must be worn conspicuously on the front of an outer garment
at all times during solicitation activities within the corporate limits of the
City of Guthrie.
(Ord. 2972, passed 5-18-93; Am. Ord. 3093, passed 10-16-01; Am. Ord. 3412,
passed 5-21-24)
§ 5-130 DISPLAY; HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   The license shall, during the time the licensee is engaged in canvassing,
soliciting, peddling or as an itinerant merchant, be worn constantly by the
licensee on the front of an outer garment in a way so as to be conspicuous at
all times. No solicitor, canvasser, itinerant merchant or peddler may solicit
from house to house or door to door for the purpose of selling, taking orders
for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or services of any kind or nature
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on any day. The license for any
food vendor must be available to present when asked.
(Ord. 2972, passed 5-18-93; Am. Ord. 3093, passed 10-16-01; Am. Ord. 3259,
passed 8-19-14)
§ 5-131 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this article may be revoked at
any time prior to expiration by the City Clerk for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false, misleading or incomplete
statement contained in application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business as a solicitor or as a canvasser;
      (3)   Any violation of this article;
      (4)   Any failure to appear in any court proceedings in any jurisdiction
or is convicted of any crime or misdemeanor; or
      (5)   Conducting the business of soliciting or of canvassing in an
unlawful manner, or in a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace, or to
constitute a menace to or be injurious to the health, safety or general welfare
of the public.
   (B)   Immediately upon the revocation, written notice thereof shall be given
by the City Clerk to the Chief of Police and the licensee in person or by first
class United States mail addressed to his or her residence address set forth in
the application and the licensee shall immediately suspend or terminate all
canvassing and soliciting activities.
   (C)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this article may also be
revoked at any time by the Chief of Police prior to expiration for any
violation of this article where an arrest could be made.
(Ord. 2972, passed 5-18-93; Am. Ord. 3093, passed 10-16-01)
§ 5-132 APPEAL.
   Any person allegedly aggrieved by the action of the City Clerk in revoking a
license or in denying the issuance of a license or by the action of the Chief
of Police in revoking the license shall, upon written request, within three
working days after notice of the action complained of, have the right of appeal
to the City Manager. The City Manager shall set a time and place for a hearing
on the appeal and notice of the hearing shall be given at least 24 hours prior
to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 2972, passed 5-18-93; Am. Ord. 3093, passed 10-16-01)
§ 5-133 GEOGRAPHICAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No mobile food service establishments (mobile vendor) shall sell or
vend from his or her vehicle or conveyance when:
      (1)   Within 300 feet of a public or private school grounds during the
hours of regular school session, classes or school-related events in the public
or private school, except when authorized in writing by the school; or
      (2)   Within 300 feet of a business establishment which is open for
business and is offering for sale the same or similar product as an item
offered for sale by the mobile vendor unless authorized in writing by the
stationary business establishment; or
      (3)   Within 300 feet of a restaurant, café or eating establishment which
is open for business unless authorized in writing by the stationary business
establishment; or
      (4)   Within 300 feet of a public park of the city where a city
authorized concession stand is located during times other than during the
course of a public celebration except as approved by the city; or
      (5)   Within 300 feet of city property where a city authorized concession
stand is located during the course of a public celebration when nonprofit
organizations are permitted to engage in the sale of merchandise and food at
such property; or
      (6)   Within 300 feet of the location of an event issued an exclusive use
permit by the city for the use of streets and/or public property during the
time specified from the start through completion of the event unless they are
an authorized vendor for the event.
   (B)   The 300-feet spacing distance shall be measured from the nearest point
of the targeted activity property (school grounds, business establishment,
restaurant, café or eating establishment, public park, city property, location
for which a special event permit has been issued) to the nearest point of the
vehicle, cart or structure used by the mobile vendor.
(Ord. 3307, passed 3-21-17)
§ 5-145 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter, or fails to pay any license tax or to secure any license or permit
required by this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished as provided in this code of ordinances. Each day upon
which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 5-50) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article is subject
to arrest and shall be guilty of an offense and shall, upon conviction thereof
in Municipal Court, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 per offense, plus
court costs. Each day the violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 2972, passed 5-18-93; Am. Ord. 3093, passed 10-16-01)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
CHAPTER 6: CEMETERIES
Article 1: Rules and Regulations
   
6-1.   Title and name
   
6-2.   Rules and regulations
   
6-3.   Deeds to lots
ARTICLE 1: RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 6-1 TITLE AND NAME.
   The cemetery property now owned and which may hereafter be acquired by the
city for cemetery purposes shall hereafter be designated and known as “Summit
View Cemetery.”
(`90 Code, § 6-1)
§ 6-2 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The use of Summit View Cemetery for any act not associated with
interment is prohibited, except nothing herein shall preclude heirs, family
members and visitors from visiting gravesites.
   (B)   (1)   The use of Summit View Cemetery is prohibited when the act is
directly or indirectly associated with a business activity, excepting, however,
business activities relating to and involved in preparation of a gravesite,
continued or perpetual care and maintenance of a gravesite or monument and
licensed funeral homes and florists.
      (2)   This section shall not preclude the city from hiring private
contractors for cemetery repair, maintenance and improvement.
   (C)   Tours of the cemetery shall be allowed, provided the tours shall be
registered with the City Clerk prior to the tours. The City Clerk shall issue a
permit for the tours.
(`90 Code, § 6-2) (Am. Ord. 2949, passed 7-2-91)
§ 6-3 DEEDS TO LOTS.
   All deeds of conveyance for lots in the cemetery property shall be executed
by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk under the corporate seal of the
city, and the Mayor and City Clerk are hereby authorized and directed to excuse
deeds in the form as may be from time to time adopted to the purchaser of lots,
without further direction or authorization by the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 6-3)
CHAPTER 7: CITY FINANCE AND BUSINESS
Article 1: Fees
   
7-1.   Fees to be paid to the city
Article 2: Sales Tax
   
7-15.   Citation and codification
   
7-16.   Subsisting state permits
   
7-17.   Purpose of revenues
   
7-18.   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
7-19.   Exemptions
   
7-20.   Due date; returns and records
   
7-21.   Payment; brackets
   
7-22.   Taxes to be a superior claim
   
7-23.   Classification; permit
   
7-24.   Vendors' duties; collection
   
7-25.   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
7-26.   Definitions
   
7-27.   Adoption of state regulations
   
7-28.   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
7-29.   Erroneous payments; claim for refunds
   
7-30.   Fraudulent returns
   
7-31.   Exemption of fertilizer
   
7-32.   Records confidential
   
7-33.   Amendments
Article 3: Additional Sales Tax
   
7-45.   Citation and codification
   
7-46.   Subsisting state permits
   
7-47.   Termination
   
7-48.   Purpose and revenue
   
7-49.   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
7-50.   Exemptions
   
7-51.   Due date; returns and refunds
   
7-52.   Payment
   
7-53.   Tax constitutes debt
   
7-54.   Classification of tax payers
   
7-55.   Vendors' duties; collection
   
7-56.   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
7-57.   Definitions
   
7-58.   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
7-59.   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
7-60.   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
7-61.   Fraudulent returns
   
7-62.   Records confidential
   
7-63.   Amendments
Article 3A: Capital Improvements Sales Tax
   
7-65.   Citations and codification
   
7-66.   Tax imposed
   
7-67.   Purpose of revenues
   
7-68.   Effective date and termination date
   
7-69.   Subsisting state permits
   
7-70.   Payment of tax
   
7-71.   Tax in addition to taxes currently levied; administration and
collection procedures
   
7-72.   Amendments
   
7-73.   Provisions cumulative
Article 4: Utility Tax on Gas Sales
   
7-75.   Levy of tax
   
7-76.   Applicability
   
7-77.   Placement of funds
   
7-78.   Actions against violators
   
7-79.   Tax constitutes lien
Article 5: Hotel Tax
   
7-90.   Short title
   
7-91.   Definitions
   
7-92.   Levy of tax
   
7-93.   Exemptions
   
7-94.   Taxes shown on bills
   
7-95.   Operators' duties; collection and records
   
7-96.   Payment
   
7-97.   Surety bond required
   
7-98.   Assessment and determination
   
7-99.   Refunds
   
7-100.   Notices
   
7-101.   Remedies exclusive
   
7-102.   Additional powers of Director; subpoenaing records
   
7-103.   Certificates of registration
   
7-104.   Delinquent taxes; interest
   
7-105.   Due dates
   
7-106.   Discount
   
7-107.   Use of proceeds
   
7-108.   Records confidential
   
7-109.   Failure to file; fraudulent returns and the like
   
7-110.   Use of fines and interest
   
7-111.   Collection by suit
   
7-112.   Amendments
   
7-113.   Administration
Article 6: Excise Tax on Property
   
7-125.   Excise tax on storage, use or other consumption of tangible, personal
property levied
   
7-126.   Exemptions
   
7-127.   Time when due; returns; payment
   
7-128.   Tax constitutes debt
   
7-129.   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor
   
7-130.   Revoking permits
   
7-131.   Remunerative deductions allowed vendors or retailers of other states
   
7-132.   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
7-133.   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
7-134.   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
7-135.   Fraudulent returns
   
7-136.   Records confidential
   
7-137.   Definitions
   
7-138.   Classification of taxpayers
   
7-139.   Subsisting state permits
   
7-140.   Purpose of revenues
Article 7: Purchasing and Bidding
   
7-150.   Purchasing procedure
   
7-151.   Exclusions from bid procedure
   
7-152.   Personal purchasing and bidding
   
7-153.   Payment of invoice or account
Article 8: Improvements
   
7-165.   Public improvements; authorization
Article 9: Payment of Claims
   
7-175.   Payment procedure
Article 10: Stabilization Fund
   7-176.   Stabilization fund balance policy
Article 11: Convention and Visitor Bureau
   7-180.   Creation of Guthrie Convention and Visitor Bureau
   7-181.   Purpose
   7-182.   Contract
   7-183.   Convention and Visitor Board
   7-184.   Term of office
   7-185.   Quorum
   7-186.   Meetings
   7-187.   Powers and duties
ARTICLE 1: FEES
§ 7-1 FEES TO BE PAID TO THE CITY.
   All fees and licenses, collected by officials or employees of the city,
under and by virtue of ordinance or law, shall immediately be paid by the
officer or employee and shall belong to the city.
(`90 Code, § 7-1)
ARTICLE 2: SALES TAX
§ 7-15 CITATION AND CODIFICATION.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the “Guthrie Sales Tax
Article.”
(`90 Code, § 7-2) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-16 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code are, for the purposes of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional city permit for the same purpose.
(`90 Code, § 7-3) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-17 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   (A)   It is hereby determined to be in the best interests of the city and
its citizens that the proceeds derived from the levy of 1% sales tax approved
by the electors as aforesaid on November 29, 1977, (one-half of the aforesaid
2% levy), be appropriated to the trustees of the Public Works Authority to
enable the trustees to expand and improve the water, sanitary sewer and storm
sewer systems owned by the city.
   (B)   There is hereby appropriated one-half of the proceeds to be derived
from the 2% sales tax, levied and collected by the city to the trustees of the
Public Works Authority, to be held by the trustees in a special account or
trust fund pending the development of the project consisting of the expansion
and improvement of the water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer system serving the
city, and upon development of the project or projects to use the proceeds
thereof solely and only in the payment of capital costs thereof, or for debt
service on indebtedness incurred for the expansion and improvement projects. In
implementation and furtherance of the purposes for which the additional excise
tax is levied, the amounts appropriated to the Authority shall be expended by
it solely and exclusively for the following purposes and in the following order
of priority:
      (1)   The making of payments into the Bond Account, as provided in the
Water System Bond Indenture of the Authority, dated October 1, 1977, as now or
hereafter amended and supplemented in accordance with its terms;
      (2)   The making of payments into the Sinking Fund Reserve Fund provided
in the Indenture as so amended and supplemented; and
      (3)   Payment of the costs and expenses of and incidental to the making
of capital improvements to the water system, sanitary sewer system and storm
sewer system of the city either directly or by the making of deposits into
funds or accounts of the Authority or of the city, for the payment of the
principal of or interest on indebtedness incurred for any capital improvements.
   (C)   The Mayor, City Clerk and Treasurer are authorized and directed to
deposit one-half of the proceeds of the aforesaid 2% sales tax monthly, as
received, in the General Fund of the city and forthwith to pay the amount so
deposited from the General Fund to the trustees of the Public Works Authority.
A certified copy of this article shall be delivered to each of the officials
and shall constitute their continuing authority to make the monthly deposits
and payments hereinabove directed.
   (D)   It is hereby further declared to be the purpose of this article to
provide a portion of these revenues for the support of the functions of the
municipal government of the city.
(`90 Code, § 7-5) (Ord. 2454, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2588, passed - -)
§ 7-18 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 2% upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the sales tax laws of the state,
including but not exclusive of the following:
   (A)   Tangible personal property, except newspapers and periodicals;
   (B)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam, or any other
utility or public service, and associated delivery or transmission services,
except water, sewage and refuse and those specifically exempt pursuant to the
provisions of 68 O.S. §§ 1357 et seq.;
   (C)   Transportation for hire to persons by common carriers, including
railroads both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, pullman car
companies, airlines, and other means of transportation for hire, excluding:
      (1)   Transportation services provided by a tourism service broker which
are incidental to the rendition of tourism brokerage services by such broker to
a customer regardless of whether or not such transportation services are
actually owned and operated by the tourism service broker. For purposes of this
subsection, "tourism service broker" means any person, firm, association or
corporation or any employee of such person, firm, association or corporation
which, for a fee, commission or other valuable consideration, arranges or
offers to arrange trips, tours or other vacation or recreational travel plans
for a customer; and
      (2)   Transportation services provided by a funeral establishment to
family members and other persons for purposes of conducting a funeral in this
state;
   (D)   Telecommunications services that originate and terminate in this state
and are charged to the consumer's telephone number or account in this state
regardless of where the billing for such service is made, and all local
telecommunications service and rental charges, including all installation and
construction charges and all service and rental charges having any connection
with transmission of any message or image. Provided:
      (1)   The term "telecommunications services" shall mean the transmission
of any interactive, two-way electromagnetic communications, including voice,
image, data and information, through the use of any medium such as wires,
cables, microwaves, cellular radio, radio waves, light waves, or any
combination of those or similar media, but shall not include the following:
         (a)   Sales of value-added nonvocal services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code, or protocol
of the information to be transmitted, including charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval but not including services commonly
known as voice mail;
         (b)   Any interstate telecommunications service which is:
            1.   Rendered by a company for private use within its organization;
or
            2.   Used, allocated, or distributed by a company to its affiliated
group; or
         (c)   Sales of any carrier access services, right of access services,
telecommunications services to be resold, or telecommunications services used
in the subsequent provision of, use as a component part of, or integrated into
end-to-end telecommunications service; and
      (2)   The term "telecommunications services" shall include, but not be
limited to sales of any interstate telecommunications services which:
         (a)   Entitle the subscriber to inward or outward calling respectively
between a station associated with an access line in the local telephone system
area or a station directly connected to any interexchange carrier's facilities
and telephone or radiotelephone stations in diverse geographical locations
specified by the subscriber; or
         (b)   Entitle the subscriber to private communications services which
allow exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of
channels between exchanges; and
      (3)   The term "interstate" includes any international service that
either originates or terminates outside of the 50 United States and the
District of Columbia;
   (E)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds, or character and,
except for services of printing, copying or photocopying performed by a
privately-owned scientific and educational library sustained by monthly or
annual dues paid by members sharing the use of such services with students
interested in the study of geology, petroleum engineering or related subjects,
any service of printing or overprinting, including the copying of information
by mimeograph, multigraph, or by otherwise duplicating written or printed
matter in any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information
from magnetic tapes or other media furnished by customers;
   (F)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public rooming
house, motel, public lodging house, or tourist camp;
   (G)   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels or
parking lots;
   (H)   Computer hardware, software, coding sheets, cards, magnetic tapes or
other media on which prewritten programs have been coded, punched, or otherwise
recorded, including the gross receipts from the licensing of software programs;
   (I)   Foods, confections, and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants, or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
   (J)   Advertising of all kinds, types, and characters, including any and all
devices used for advertising purposes except those specifically exempt pursuant
to the provisions of 68 O.S. § 1357;
   (K)   Dues or fees to clubs including free or complimentary dues or fees
which have a value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise been
made, including any fees paid for the use of facilities or services rendered at
a health spa or club or any similar facility or business;
   (L)   Tickets for admission to or voluntary contributions made to places of
amusement, sports, entertainment, exhibition, display, or other recreational
events or activities, including free or complimentary admissions which have a
value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise been made;
   (M)   Charges made for the privilege of entering or engaging in any kind of
activity, such as tennis, racquetball, or handball, when spectators are charged
no admission fee;
   (N)   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement, sports,
entertainment, or recreational activity, such as trampolines or golf carts;
   (O)   The rental of equipment for amusement, sports, entertainment, or other
recreational activities, such as bowling shoes, skates, golf carts, or other
sports or athletic equipment;
   (P)   The gross receipts from sales from any vending machine without any
deduction for rental to locate the vending machine on the premises of a person
who is not the owner or any other deductions therefrom;
   (Q)   The gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of
tangible personal property, including rental or lease of personal property when
the rental or lease agreement requires the vendor to launder, clean, repair, or
otherwise service the rented or leased property on a regular basis, without any
deduction for the cost of the service rendered. If the rental or lease charge
is based on the retail value of the property at the time of making the rental
or lease agreement and the expected life of the property, and the rental or
lease charge is separately stated from the service cost in the statement, bill,
or invoice delivered to the consumer, the cost of services rendered shall be
deducted from the gross receipts or gross proceeds;
   (R)   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees, and other floral items, whether or not
produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or nursery business
in this state, including all orders taken by an state business for delivery in
another state. All orders taken outside this state for delivery within this
state shall not be subject to the taxes levied in this section;
   (S)   Tangible personal property sold to persons, peddlers, solicitors, or
other salesmen, for resale when there is likelihood that this state will lose
tax revenue due to the difficulty of enforcing the provisions of the State
Sales Tax Code because of:
      (1)   The operation of the business;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The turnover of independent contractors;
      (4)   The lack of place of business in which to display a permit or keep
records;
      (5)   Lack of adequate records;
      (6)   The fact that the persons are minors or transients;
      (7)   The fact that the persons are engaged in service businesses; or
      (8)   Any other reasonable reason.
   (T)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property including
materials, supplies, and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate even though the real estate is intended
for resale as real property.
   (U)   Any items taxed under 60 O.S. §§ 1354.1, 1354.2, and 1354.3.
(68 O.S. § 1354) (`90 Code, § 7-6) (Ord. 2454, passed - -; Am. Ord. 3083,
passed 8-7-01)
§ 7-19 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
article the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the State Sales Tax
Law those specific exemptions set out in 68 O.S. §§ 1355 through 1360.
(`90 Code, § 7-7) (Ord. 3085, passed 8-7-01)
   (B)   From and after February 16, 1967, sales of farm machinery made within
the city are exempt from the city sales tax.
(`90 Code, § 7-8)
   (C)   Also there is hereby specifically exempted from the tax herein levied
the transfer of tangible personal property exempted from the state sales tax
law inclusive but not exclusive of the following:
      (1)   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. As used in this subsection the term “reorganization” means:
         (a)   A statutory merger or consolidation;
         (b)   The acquisition by a corporation of substantially all of the
properties of another corporation when the consideration is solely all or a
part of the voting stock of the acquiring corporation or of its parent or
subsidiary corporation.
      (2)   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of a
corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of the corporation;
      (3)   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of the corporation
where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the
transfer in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities received by
each is substantially in proportion to this interest in the property prior to
the transfer;
      (4)   To a partnership in the organization of the partnership if the
former owner of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer,
members of the partnerships and the interest in the partnership, received by
each, is substantially in proportion to this interest in the property prior to
the transfer; and
      (5)   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in the
dissolution of the partnership.
(`90 Code, § 7-9) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-20 DUE DATE; RETURNS AND RECORDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the Sales
Tax Law of the state.
(`90 Code, § 7-10) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-21 PAYMENT; BRACKETS.
   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time in form
and manner provided for payment of the state sales tax under State Sales Tax
Law.
(`90 Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-22 TAXES TO BE A SUPERIOR CLAIM.
   The taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(`90 Code, § 7-12) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-23 CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT.
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Sales Tax Code.
(`90 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-24 VENDORS' DUTIES; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this city to
collect from the consumer or user, the full amount of the tax levied by this
article, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average
equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added the tax shall constitute
a part of the price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or user to
vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other
debts.
   (C)   A vendor, as defined herein, who willfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied hereof, or
willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the
provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or
indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied,
or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which
infers that he or she is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer
or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any
manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $35, including costs.
(`90 Code, § 7-14) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-25 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time, and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Sales Tax Code.
Remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by the Code for collection of state sales taxes.
(`90 Code, § 7-15) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-26 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the city government or the official agency
of the state duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
(`90 Code, § 7-16)
   (B)   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State
Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1352 and 1352.1, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this article.
(`90 Code, § 7-17)
(Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-27 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   68 O.S. § 217, is hereby adopted and made a part of this article, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this article. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer
to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner
required by this article shall cause the tax to be delinquent. In addition, if
the delinquency continues for a period of five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit
his or her claim to any discount allowed under this article.
(`90 Code, § 7-18) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-28 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The interest or penalty of any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or remittance as applied in
administration of the state sales tax, provided in 68 O.S. § 220.
   (B)   To accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions
of 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
article.
(`90 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-29 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   (A)   Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax, as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227.
   (B)   To accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions
of 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
article.
(`90 Code, § 7-20) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-30 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances therein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this article shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to the fine as provided in §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 7-21) (Ord. 2454, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2823, passed - -)
§ 7-31 EXEMPTION OF FERTILIZER.
   In addition to all other exemptions allowed by this article, the sales of
agricultural fertilizer to persons regularly engaged for profit in the business
of farming and/or ranching which are exempt from state sales taxes under
provision of 68 O.S. § 1358 shall likewise be exempt from the city sales tax
herein levied.
(`90 Code, § 7-22) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-32 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the State
Sales Tax Code, and each subsection thereof is hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the city sales tax as
is here set forth in full.
(`90 Code, § 7-23) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
§ 7-33 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the city, by their approval of this article at the election
herein above provided, hereby authorize the City Council by ordinances duly
enacted to make administrative and technical changes or additions in the method
and manner of administration and enforcing this article as may be necessary or
proper for efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the tax herein
provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the
city as provided by law.
(`90 Code, § 7-25) (Ord. 2454, passed - -)
ARTICLE 3: ADDITIONAL SALES TAX
§ 7-45 CITATION AND CODIFICATION.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the “Special Sales Tax
Article” and is hereinafter referred to as “this article.”
(`90 Code, § 7-27) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-46 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business by the State Tax Commission
pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code are, for the purposes of this article,
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for any
additional city permit for the same purpose.
(`90 Code, § 7-28) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-47 TERMINATION.
   This article shall become and be effective on and after December 1, 1979,
subject to approval of a majority of the registered voters of the city, voting
on the same in the manner prescribed by law. Upon approval by the voters as
required above, this article shall remain in effect and not be repealed unless
repealed by a majority of the registered voters of the city voting to repeal
same in the manner prescribed by law.
(`90 Code, § 7-29) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-48 PURPOSE AND REVENUES.
   (A)   The proceeds of the additional 1% sales tax levied and assessed by
this article and the proceeds of the existing 2% sales tax of the city shall be
used as follows. The revenues generated by the sales tax shall be transferred
to the Public Works Authority, to be used for the payment of operation and
maintenance costs of the water system of the city and the payment of the debt
service, including payment of interest and principal and premium, if any, as
the same become due, whether at the stated maturity thereof by acceleration,
call for redemption or otherwise, on indebtedness incurred by the authority.
Following payment of the debt service above stated and operation and
maintenance costs of the system, any remaining revenue shall be paid over to
the general fund of the city for use for the general purposes of the city.
Nothing herein contained shall affect the pledge of the existing 1% sales tax
previously pledged to the payment of Series 1978 and EDA Series Bonds of the
authority.
   (B)   Article 2 and this article are hereby amended to provide that the
sales tax levied and assessed pursuant thereto, shall be used as set forth in
this section.
(`90 Code, § 7-30) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-49 TAX RATE-SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 1% upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the sales tax laws of the state,
including but not exclusive of the following:
   (A)   Tangible personal property, except newspapers and periodicals;
   (B)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam, or any other
utility or public service, and associated delivery or transmission services,
except water, sewage and refuse and those specifically exempt pursuant to the
provisions of 68 O.S. §§ 1357 et seq.;
   (C)   Transportation for hire to persons by common carriers, including
railroads both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, pullman car
companies, airlines, and other means of transportation for hire, excluding:
      (1)   Transportation services provided by a tourism service broker which
are incidental to the rendition of tourism brokerage services by such broker to
a customer regardless of whether or not such transportation services are
actually owned and operated by the tourism service broker. For purposes of this
subsection, "tourism service broker" means any person, firm, association or
corporation or any employee of such person, firm, association or corporation
which, for a fee, commission or other valuable consideration, arranges or
offers to arrange trips, tours or other vacation or recreational travel plans
for a customer; and
      (2)   Transportation services provided by a funeral establishment to
family members and other persons for purposes of conducting a funeral in this
state;
   (D)   Telecommunications services that originate and terminate in this state
and are charged to the consumer's telephone number or account in this state
regardless of where the billing for such service is made, and all local
telecommunications service and rental charges, including all installation and
construction charges and all service and rental charges having any connection
with transmission of any message or image. Provided:
      (1)   The term "telecommunications services" shall mean the transmission
of any interactive, two-way electromagnetic communications, including voice,
image, data and information, through the use of any medium such as wires,
cables, microwaves, cellular radio, radio waves, light waves, or any
combination of those or similar media, but shall not include the following:
         (a)   Sales of value-added nonvocal services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code, or protocol
of the information to be transmitted, including charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval but not including services commonly
known as voice mail;
         (b)   Any interstate telecommunications service which is:
            1.   Rendered by a company for private use within its organization;
or
            2.   Used, allocated, or distributed by a company to its affiliated
group; or
         (c)   Sales of any carrier access services, right of access services,
telecommunications services to be resold, or telecommunications services used
in the subsequent provision of, use as a component part of, or integrated into
end-to-end telecommunications service; and
      (2)   The term "telecommunications services" shall include, but not be
limited to sales of any interstate telecommunications services which:
         (a)   Entitle the subscriber to inward or outward calling respectively
between a station associated with an access line in the local telephone system
area or a station directly connected to any interexchange carrier's facilities
and telephone or radiotelephone stations in diverse geographical locations
specified by the subscriber; or
         (b)   Entitle the subscriber to private communications services which
allow exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of
channels between exchanges; and
      (3)   The term "interstate" includes any international service that
either originates or terminates outside of the 50 United States and the
District of Columbia;
   (E)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds, or character and,
except for services of printing, copying or photocopying performed by a
privately owned scientific and educational library sustained by monthly or
annual dues paid by members sharing the use of such services with students
interested in the study of geology, petroleum engineering or related subjects,
any service of printing or overprinting, including the copying of information
by mimeograph, multigraph, or by otherwise duplicating written or printed
matter in any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information
from magnetic tapes or other media furnished by customers;
   (F)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public rooming
house, motel, public lodging house, or tourist camp;
   (G)   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels or
parking lots;
   (H)   Computer hardware, software, coding sheets, cards, magnetic tapes or
other media on which prewritten programs have been coded, punched, or otherwise
recorded, including the gross receipts from the licensing of software programs;
   (I)   Foods, confections, and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants, or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
   (J)   Advertising of all kinds, types, and characters, including any and all
devices used for advertising purposes except those specifically exempt pursuant
to the provisions of 68 O.S. § 1357;
   (K)   Dues or fees to clubs including free or complimentary dues or fees
which have a value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise been
made, including any fees paid for the use of facilities or services rendered at
a health spa or club or any similar facility or business;
   (L)   Tickets for admission to or voluntary contributions made to places of
amusement, sports, entertainment, exhibition, display, or other recreational
events or activities, including free or complimentary admissions which have a
value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise been made;
   (M)   Charges made for the privilege of entering or engaging in any kind of
activity, such as tennis, racquetball, or handball, when spectators are charged
no admission fee;
   (N)   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement, sports,
entertainment, or recreational activity, such as trampolines or golf carts;
   (O)   The rental of equipment for amusement, sports, entertainment, or other
recreational activities, such as bowling shoes, skates, golf carts, or other
sports or athletic equipment;
   (P)   The gross receipts from sales from any vending machine without any
deduction for rental to locate the vending machine on the premises of a person
who is not the owner or any other deductions therefrom;
   (Q)   The gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of
tangible personal property, including rental or lease of personal property when
the rental or lease agreement requires the vendor to launder, clean, repair, or
otherwise service the rented or leased property on a regular basis, without any
deduction for the cost of the service rendered. If the rental or lease charge
is based on the retail value of the property at the time of making the rental
or lease agreement and the expected life of the property, and the rental or
lease charge is separately stated from the service cost in the statement, bill,
or invoice delivered to the consumer, the cost of services rendered shall be
deducted from the gross receipts or gross proceeds;
   (R)   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees, and other floral items, whether or not
produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or nursery business
in this state, including all orders taken by an state business for delivery in
another state. All orders taken outside this state for delivery within this
state shall not be subject to the taxes levied in this section;
   (S)   Tangible personal property sold to persons, peddlers, solicitors, or
other salesmen, for resale when there is likelihood that this state will lose
tax revenue due to the difficulty of enforcing the provisions of the State
Sales Tax Code because of:
      (1)   The operation of the business;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The turnover of independent contractors;
      (4)   The lack of place of business in which to display a permit or keep
records;
      (5)   Lack of adequate records;
      (6)   The fact that the persons are minors or transients;
      (7)   The fact that the persons are engaged in service businesses; or
      (8)   Any other reasonable reason.
   (T)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property including
materials, supplies, and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate even though the real estate is intended
for resale as real property.
   (U)   Any items taxed under 60 O.S. §§ 1354.1, 1354.2, and 1354.3.
(68 O.S. § 1354) (`90 Code, § 7-31) (Ord. 2640, passed - -; Am. Ord. 3084,
passed 8-7-01)
§ 7-50 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
article the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the State Sales Tax
Code those specific exemptions set out in 68 O.S. §§ 1355 through 1360.
(`90 Code, § 7-32) (Ord. 2640, passed - -; Am. Ord. 3086, passed 8-7-01)
   (B)   Also there is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied the
transfer of tangible personal property exempted from the State Sales Tax Code
inclusive but not exclusive of the following:
      (1)   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization; (As used in this section the term “reorganization” means a
statutory merger or consolidation and the acquisition by a corporation of
substantially all of the properties of another corporation when the
consideration is solely all or a part of the voting stock of the acquiring
corporation, or of its parent or subsidiary corporation.)
      (2)   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of
corporation only when there is distribution in kind to the shareholders of the
property of the corporation;
      (3)   To a corporation for the purpose or organization of the corporation
where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the
transfer in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities received by
each is substantially in proportion to this interest in the property prior to
the transfer;
      (4)   To a partnership in the organization or the partnership if the
former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer,
members of the partnerships and the interest in the partnership, received by
each is substantially in proportion to his or her interest in the property
prior to the transfer; and
      (5)   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in the
dissolution of the partnership.
(`90 Code, § 7-33) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-51 DUE DATE; RETURNS AND REFUNDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the State
Sales Tax Code.
(`90 Code, § 7-34) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-52 PAYMENT.
   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time in form
and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the State Sales Tax
Code.
(`90 Code, § 7-35) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-53 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(`90 Code, § 7-36) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-54 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this article the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for the purpose of the State Sales Tax
Code.
(`90 Code, § 7-37) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-55 VENDORS' DUTIES; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this city to
collect from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this
article, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average
equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, the tax shall constitute
a part of the price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or user to
vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other
debts.
   (C)   A vendor, as defined herein, who willfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied hereof, or
willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the
provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or
indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax levied herein,
or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise any statement which
infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user
by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined as provided in §
12-34 of this code, plus costs.
(`90 Code, § 7-38)
§ 7-56 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax levied herein and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time, and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Sales Tax Code.
Remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by the code for collection of state sales taxes.
(`90 Code, § 7-39) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-57 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the city government or the official agency
of the state duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
(`90 Code, § 7-40)
   (B)   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State
Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1352 and 1352.1, are hereby adopted by reference and
made part of this article.
(`90 Code, § 7-41)
(Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-58 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this article and interest
and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are hereby
levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying
the tax levied by this article. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make
and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required
by this article shall cause the tax to be delinquent. In addition, if the
delinquency continues for a period of five days the taxpayer shall forfeit his
claim to any discount allowed under this article.
(`90 Code, § 7-42) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-59 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of
taxpayer's failure to pay the tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in
the same manner as provided for the waiver or remittance as applied in
administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220. To accomplish
the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(`90 Code, § 7-43) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-60 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making erroneous payment in the manner and procedures, and
under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the state
sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the purposes of this
section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 277 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article.
(`90 Code, § 7-44) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-61 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   (A)   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the
wilful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances
herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the
purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this article shall be an offense.
   (B)   Upon conviction thereof the offending taxpayer shall be subject to
punishment as provided in §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 7-45) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
§ 7-62 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files
concerning the administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized
and declared and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the
State Sales Tax Code.
   (B)   Each subsection thereof is hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to administration of the city sales tax as if here set
forth in full.
(`90 Code, § 7-46) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
§ 7-63 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The people of the city, by their approval of this article as the
election hereinabove provided, hereby authorize the City Council by ordinances
duly enacted to make administrative and technical changes or additions in the
method and manner of administration and enforcing this article as may be
necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness.
   (B)   The rate of tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval
of the qualified electors of the city as provided by law.
(`90 Code, § 7-48) (Ord. 2640, passed - -)
ARTICLE 3A: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS SALES TAX
§ 7-65 CITATIONS AND CODIFICATION.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Guthrie Capital
Improvements Sales Tax Ordinance,” and the same is hereby codified and
incorporated into the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 3254, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3269, passed 4-7-15; Am. Ord. 3277, passed
1-19-16)
§ 7-66 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed an excise tax of .75% (in addition to any and all
other excise taxes now in force) to be levied upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
(Ord. 3254, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3269, passed 4-7-15; Am. Ord. 3277, passed
1-19-16)
§ 7-67 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   (A)   The .75% excise tax levied hereunder shall be used to finance or fund
capital improvements and related costs, to include debt service on obligations
issued to finance said capital improvements; the improvements to be reviewed by
the Guthrie Area Projects Committee and approved by the City Council by
resolution.
   (B)   All revenues generated by this article shall be deposited in a
limited-purpose fund and money in this limited-purpose tax fund shall be
expended only as accumulated and only for the purpose specified in this article
as approved by a vote of the qualified electors of the city as provided for in
§
7-68.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the term CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS shall have
and be given the same meaning as set forth in 11 O.S. § 17-110.
(Ord. 3254, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3269, passed 4-7-15; Am. Ord. 3277, passed
1-19-16)
§ 7-68 EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION DATE.
   The provisions of this article and the collection of the excise tax
referenced herein shall become effective on and after July 1, 2016, subject to
approval by a majority of the qualified electors of the city voting on the same
in the manner prescribed by law, terminating on June 30, 2046.
(Ord. 3254, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3269, passed 4-7-15; Am. Ord. 3277, passed
1-19-16; Am. Ord. 3405, passed 1-16-24)
§ 7-69 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purposes of
this article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional city permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. 3254, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3269, passed 4-7-15; Am. Ord. 3277, passed
1-19-16)
§ 7-70 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time and in
the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code and all tax laws of the State of Oklahoma.
(Ord. 3254, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3269, passed 4-7-15; Am. Ord. 3277, passed
1-19-16)
§ 7-71 TAX IN ADDITION TO TAXES CURRENTLY LEVIED: ADMINISTRATION AND COLLECTION
PROCEDURES.
   The tax levied hereby is in addition to any and all other excise taxes
levied or assessed by the city including but not limited to those levied and
assessed by Ordinance No. 2454, Ordinance No. 2575, and Ordinance No. 2640 each
as amended. The tax levied by this article shall be administered and collected
in accordance with the procedures and provisions of
Article 2 and
Article 3 of Chapter 7 of the Code of Ordinances, City of Guthrie, Oklahoma,
called the “Guthrie Sales Tax Article,” in the same manner as provided for the
administration and collection of other sales and excise taxes of the city.
(Ord. 3254, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3269, passed 4-7-15; Am. Ord. 3277, passed
1-19-16)
§ 7-72 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma, by their approval of this
article at the election herein above provided for, hereby authorize the City
Council by ordinance duly enacted to make such administrative and technical
changes or additions in the method and manner of administration and enforcing
this article as may be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness or in
order to make the same consistent with the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, as amended,
except that the rate of the tax and the limited purpose of the use of the tax
herein provided for shall not be changed without approval of the qualified
electors of the city as provided by law.
(Ord. 3254, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3269, passed 4-7-15; Am. Ord. 3277, passed
1-19-16)
§ 7-73 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of city ordinances.
(Ord. 3254, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3269, passed 4-7-15; Am. Ord. 3277, passed
1-19-16)
ARTICLE 4: UTILITY TAX ON GAS SALES
§ 7-75 LEVY OF TAX.
   From and after March 3, 1981, there is hereby levied and assessed an annual
tax of 2% upon the gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas
in the city which tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license,
occupation or other taxes pursuant to 68 O.S. §§ 2601 to 2605.
(`90 Code, § 7-52) (Ord. 2676, passed 3-3-81)
§ 7-76 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The tax levied under §
7-75 shall, when levied, apply to all persons, firms, associations or
corporations engaged in the business of furnishing gas within the city limits.
   (B)   It shall not apply to any person, firm, association or corporation
operating under a valid franchise from the city.
(`90 Code, § 7-53) (Ord. 2676, passed 3-3-81)
§ 7-77 PLACEMENT OF FUNDS.
   The tax levied under §
7-75 of this article shall be payable monthly and placed in the general revenue
fund of the city.
(`90 Code, § 7-54) (Ord. 2676, passed 3-3-81)
§ 7-78 ACTIONS AGAINST VIOLATORS.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay the tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from the city, and
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against the person, firm or
corporation for the amount of tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorney's fees.
(`90 Code, § 7-55) (Ord. 2676, passed 3-3-81)
§ 7-79 TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the city of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling gas within the city limits.
(`90 Code, § 7-56) (Ord. 2676, passed 3-3-81)
ARTICLE 5: HOTEL TAX
§ 7-90 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known and cited as the “Hotel Tax Article.”
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-91 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of Guthrie.
   DIRECTOR. The director of finance of the city.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other facility in
which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations in
which one or more rooms are used for the accommodation of guests whether such
rooms are in one or several structures. The term shall include hotels,
apartment hotels, motels, tourist homes, houses or courts, lodging houses,
inns, rooming houses, trailer houses, trailer motels, apartments and sleeping
rooms and all other facilities where rooms or sleeping accommodations or space
are furnished for a consideration. The term shall not include hospitals,
sanitariums, nursing homes, or other educational or charitable institutions.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of,
any room or rooms in a hotel, or the right to use or possession of the
furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and
possession of the room or rooms.
   OCCUPANT. A person, who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has the
right to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease,
concession, permit right of access, license to use or other agreement.
   OPERATOR. Any person or entity, operating or managing a hotel in this city,
including, but not limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee,
mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such
hotel.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
   RETURN. Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
   ROOM. Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of the hotel
which is available or let out for use or possession for any purpose other than
a place of assembly. As used herein, “place of assembly” means a room or space
which is capable of being occupied by 75 or more persons and which is used for
educational, recreational or amusement purposes and shall include dance halls;
cabarets; night clubs; restaurants; any room or space for public or private
banquets, feasts, socials; card parties or weddings; lodge and meeting halls or
rooms; skating rinks; gymnasiums; swimming pools; billiards; bowling and table
tennis rooms; halls or rooms used for public or private catering purposes;
funeral parlors; markets; recreational rooms; concert halls; broadcasting
studios; and all other places of similar type of occupancy.
   TAX. The tax levied pursuant to this article.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-92 TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 7% of the gross rental receipts due
from or paid by any guests of hotels located within the city regardless of
length of guest stay. Hotel tax does not apply to rental agreements which are
governed by the Oklahoma Residential Landlord and Tenant Act (41 O.S. §§ 101
et. seq.).
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-93 EXEMPTIONS.
   The exemptions from state sales tax enumerated in 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
“Sales Tax Code” are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference. To
the extent any conflicts in connection with permitted exemptions should arise
under this article and the Sales Tax Code, the Sales Tax Code shall prevail.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-94 TAXES SHOWN ON BILLS.
   The operator shall separately designate, charge and show the tax on all
bills, statements, receipts or any other evidence of charges or payment of rent
for occupancy issued or delivered by the operator.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-95 OPERATORS' DUTIES; COLLECTION AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The operator shall be responsible for the collection of tax from the
occupant and shall be liable to the city for the tax.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every operator to keep and preserve suitable
records of every occupancy and of all rent paid, charged or due thereon and of
the tax payable thereon in such form as the City Manager may by regulation
require. All records shall remain in the city and be available for inspection
and examination at any time upon demand by the City Manager or duly authorized
agent or employee of the city, and shall be preserved for a period of three
years, unless the City Manager has authorized in writing their destruction
within that period or may require that they be kept longer. The burden of
proving that a sale was exempt from this tax shall be upon the operator who
made the sale.
   (C)   Filing returns.
      (1)   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable to the director
or the Oklahoma Tax Commission pursuant to an agreement to collect municipal
lodging taxes. The tax shall be due on the first day of each month, except as
herein provided, by any person liable for the payment of any tax due under this
article. For the purpose of ascertaining the amount of the tax payable under
this article, it shall be the duty of all operators, on or before the 20th day
of each month, to deliver to the director or the Oklahoma Tax Commission, upon
forms prescribed and furnished by him, returns, under oath, showing the gross
receipts or gross proceeds arising from rents received from occupancy of hotel
rooms during the preceding calendar month. Such returns shall show such further
information as the director or the Oklahoma Tax Commission may require to
correctly compute and collect the tax herein levied. In addition to the
information required on returns, the director or the Oklahoma Tax Commission
may request and the operator shall furnish any information deemed necessary for
a correct computation of the tax levied herein. Such operator shall compute and
remit to the director or the Oklahoma Tax Commission the required tax due for
the preceding calendar month. The remittance or remittances of the tax shall
accompany the returns herein required. If not paid on or before the 20th of
such month, the tax shall be delinquent from such date. Reports timely mailed
shall be considered timely filed. If a report is not timely filed, interest
shall be charged from the date the report should have been filed until the
report is actually filed.
      (2)   The director may permit or require returns to be made by shorter or
longer periods and upon such dates as he may specify. The form of return shall
be prescribed by the director and shall contain such information as he may deem
necessary for the proper administration of this article. The director may
require amended returns to be filed within 20 days after notice, which amended
return shall contain the information specified in the notice.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-96 PAYMENT.
   At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator
shall pay to the Director the taxes imposed by this article upon the rents
included in the return, as well as all other monies collected by the operator
acting or purporting to act under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-97 SURETY BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Where the Director believes that any operator is about to cease
business, leave the state or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other
similar reason he or she deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under
this article, he or she may require the operator to file with the city a bond
issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this state in the
amount as the Director may fix to secure the payment of any tax or penalties
and interest due, or which may become due from the operator.
   (B)   In the event that the Director determines that an operator is to file
such bond, he shall give notice to such operator specifying the amount of bond
required, which shall in no event exceed twice the amount of the sum in
controversy.
   (C)   The operator shall file such bond within five days after receiving
such notice unless within such five days the operator shall request in writing
a hearing before the City Council at which time the necessity and amount of the
bond shall be determined by the City Council. Such determination shall be final
and shall be complied with within 15 days thereafter.
   (D)   In lieu of the bond, securities approved by the Director, or cash in
the amount as he or she may prescribe, may be deposited with the Director, who
may at any time after five days notice to the depositor, apply them to any tax
and/or any penalties due and for that purpose the securities may be sold at
private or public sale.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-98 ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   If a return required by this article is not filed, or if a return when
filed is incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by
the Director from information as may be obtainable and, if necessary, the tax
may be estimated on the basis of external indices, a number of rooms, location,
scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodation and services, number
of employees or other factors.
   (B)   Written notice of the assessment shall be given to the person liable
for the collection and payment of the tax. The assessment shall finally and
irrevocably fix and determine the tax unless the person against whom it is
assessed, within 90 days after the giving of notice of the assessment, shall
apply in writing to the City Council for a hearing or unless the Director on
his or her own motion shall reassess the same.
   (C)   After the hearing, the City Council shall give written notice of its
determination to the person against whom the tax is assessed and the
determination shall be final.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-99 REFUNDS.
   (A)   The Director shall refund or credit any tax erroneously, illegally or
unconstitutionally collected if written application to the City Manager for the
refund shall be made within 90 days from the date of payment thereof. For like
causes, and in the same period, a refund may be so made upon the initiative and
the order of the City Manager. Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor
shall be stated in writing. The application may be made by the person upon whom
the tax was imposed and who has actually paid the tax. The application may also
be made by the person who has collected and paid the tax to the City Manager
providing that the application is made within 90 days of the payment by the
occupant to the operator, but no refund of money shall be made to the operator
until he or she has repaid to the occupant the amount for which the application
for refund is made. TheDirector, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may
allow credit therefor on payments due from the applicant.
   (B)   Upon application for a refund, the Director may receive evidence with
respect thereto, and make the investigation as he or she deems necessary. After
making a determination as to the refund, the City Manager shall give written
notice thereof to the applicant. The determination shall be final unless the
applicant, within 90 days of the notice shall apply in writing to the City
Council for a hearing. After the hearing, the City Council shall give written
notice of its decision to the applicant.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-100 NOTICES.
   Notices provided for under this article shall be deemed to have been given
when the notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in
the United States Mail to the last known address of the operator.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-101 REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided in this article shall be exclusive remedies available
to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this article.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-102 ADDITIONAL POWERS OF DIRECTOR; SUBPOENAING RECORDS.
   (A)   In addition to all other powers granted to the Director, he or she is
hereby authorized and empowered:
      (1)   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations in writing
appropriate to the carrying out of this article for the purposes thereof;
      (2)   To extend for cause shown this time for filing any return for a
period not exceeding 60 days, and for cause shown to waive, remit or reduce
penalties or interest;
      (3)   To delegate his or her functions hereunder to an assistant or other
employee or employees of the city;
      (4)   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the taxes
imposed by this article;
      (5)   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable
rents.
   (B)   The Director or his or her designated representative, shall have the
power to administer oaths and take affidavits in relation to any matter or
proceeding in the exercise of their powers and duties under this article. The
Director shall have the power to subpoena and require the attendance of
witnesses and the production of books, papers and documents to secure
information pertinent to the performance of his or her duties hereunder and of
the enforcement of this article and to examine them in relation thereto.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-103 CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to commencement of business or opening, every operator shall
file with theDirector a certificate of registration and an affidavit and
designation of operator on forms prescribed by theDirector. The Director shall,
within five days after the registration, issue without charge to the operator
so designated a certificate of authority empowering the operator to collect the
tax from the occupant and duplicates thereof for each additional hotel.
   (B)   Each certificate or duplicate shall state the hotel to which it is
applicable.
   (C)   The certificate of authority shall be permanently displayed by the
operator in a manner as it may be seen and come to the notice of all occupants
and persons seeking occupancy. The certificates shall be nonassignable and
nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the City Manager upon
cessation of business of the hotel named, or upon its sale or transfer, or upon
the change of designated operator.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-104 DELINQUENT TAXES; INTEREST.
   If any tax levied by this article becomes delinquent, the person responsible
and liable for the tax shall pay interest on the unpaid tax at the rate of 1.5%
per month on the unpaid balance from the date of delinquency until the unpaid
balance is paid in full.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-105 DUE DATES.
   The tax levied by this article shall be due and payable at the time filing
of the returns provided for in this article is required. All taxes not paid
within five days from the time they become due shall be delinquent.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-106 DISCOUNT.
   In order to remunerate an operator for keeping tax records, filing reports
and remitting the tax when due, a 2.25% discount shall be allowed upon all
taxes paid prior to the time they become delinquent.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98)
§ 7-107 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Five percent of all taxes and revenues collected pursuant to this
article shall be used by the city to defray administrative costs.; 36% percent
of all taxes and revenues collected pursuant to this article shall be set aside
and used for the purpose of encouraging, promoting, fostering and
administrating the convention and tourism development of the city; 18% of the
taxes collected pursuant to this article shall be set aside and used
exclusively for the purpose of the development, maintenance and operation of
the public parks now belonging to, or hereafter acquired by the city; and 41%
of the taxes collected pursuant to this article shall be set aside and used
exclusively for the purpose of improvements and/or maintenance of sports fields
now belonging to, or hereafter acquired by, the city.
   (B)   The tax revenue collected may also be pledged and used for public
capital improvements related to the purpose of the hotel tax and to pay the
debt service and costs of issuance on any notes, bonds, obligations or
evidences of indebtedness issued by the Guthrie Municipal Authority to finance
such public capital improvements.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-108 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 63 O.S. § 205 “Uniform Tax
Procedure”, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the city hotel tax as
if herein set forth.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-109 FAILURE TO FILE; FRAUDULENT RETURNS AND THE LIKE.
   The willful failure or refusal of any operator to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this article, or failure to post a bond, or failure to
maintain or produce records as required shall be an offense, and upon
conviction thereof the offending operator shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $200 or the fine prescribed by §
12-34 of this code, whichever is greater, including costs. Each day for which a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-110 USE OF FINES AND INTEREST.
   Any funds collected for fines assessed pursuant to §
7-109, including costs, together with any interest collected pursuant to §
7-103, on the unpaid balance from the date of delinquency, until paid, shall be
deposited and held for the uses set forth in §
7-107.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-111 COLLECTION BY SUIT.
   The taxes and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a prior,
superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured creditors, and
may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-112 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the city, by their approval of this article at the election
herein provided, hereby authorize the City Council by ordinances duly enacted
to make administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and
manner of administration and enforcing this article as may be necessary or
proper for efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the tax herein
provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the
city as provided by law.
(Ord. 3034, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
§ 7-113 ADMINISTRATION.
   One percent of the gross receipts derived from taxes collected pursuant to
this article shall be retained by the office of the Director for the purpose of
administering and collecting the tax. Should the city enter into an agreement
with the Oklahoma Tax Commission for the collection of municipal hotel tax, any
collection assistance fee due under said agreement shall be deducted from the
1% retained by the city for the purpose of administering and collecting the
tax. Should the city enter into an agreement with the Oklahoma Tax Commission
for the collection of municipal hotel tax, to the extent that anything in this
article conflicts with the procedures of administration and collection under
the provisions of 68 O.S. § 201 et seq. “Uniform Tax Procedure”, the Uniform
Tax Procedure shall prevail.
(Ord. 3366, passed 1-18-22)
ARTICLE 6: EXCISE TAX ON PROPERTY
§ 7-125 EXCISE TAX ON STORAGE, USE OR OTHER CONSUMPTION OF TANGIBLE, PERSONAL
PROPERTY LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person
storing, using or otherwise consuming within the municipality tangible,
personal property purchased or brought into this municipality, an excise tax on
the storage, use or other consuming within the municipality of such property at
the rate of 3.75% of the purchase price of the property. Such tax shall be paid
by ever person storing, using, or otherwise consuming, within the municipality,
tangible, personal property purchased or brought into the municipality. The
additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or
storage of the property within the municipality and shall be assessed to only
property purchased outside of Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein
shall not be levied against tangible, personal property intended solely for use
outside the municipality, but which is stored in the municipality pending
shipment outside the municipality or which is temporarily retained in the
municipality for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration,
maintenance or other service.
   (B)   Any person liable for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct
from such tax any local or municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or
services, provided that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that
would have been due if the taxes imposed by the municipality had been levied on
the sale of such goods or services.
(`90 Code, § 7-100) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-126 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by a nonresident individual visiting in this
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code and the use tax article, has been paid by the person using such a
tangible, personal property in the municipality, whether such tax was levied
under the laws of Oklahoma or some other state or municipality of the United
States. If any article of tangible, personal property has already been
subjected to a tax by Oklahoma or any other state or municipality in respect to
its sale or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma
Use Tax Code and the city’s use tax article measured by the difference only
between the rate provided by both the Oklahoma Use Tax Code and the city’s use
tax, and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed.
Provided, that no credit shall be given for taxes paid in another state or
municipality, if that state or municipality does not grant like credit for
taxes paid in Oklahoma and the municipality;
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the
municipality, and machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons to the
operation of manufacturing plants already established in the municipality.
Provided, this exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is
incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing
property subject to taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality. The
term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of this municipality where such personal property is for such individual’s
personal use or enjoyment;
   (G)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads;
   (H)   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into
this municipality for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(`90 Code, § 7-102) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-127 TIME WHEN DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENT.
   The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the State Use Tax Code under the Use
Tax Code of the State of Oklahoma.
(`90 Code, § 7-103) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-128 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(`90 Code, § 7-104) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-129 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR.
   (A)   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without the State of Oklahoma, and making sales of tangible, personal
property from a place of business outside this state for use in this
municipality shall at the time of making such sales collect the use tax levied
by this article from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt
therefore in the manner and form prescribed by the Tax Commission, if the Tax
Commission shall, by regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor
shall list with the Tax Commission the name and address of all his agents
operating in this municipality and location of any and all distribution or
sales houses or offices or other places of business in this city. (`90 Code, §
7-105)
   (B)   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of
business within state or both within and without state; permits.
      (1)   The Tax Commission may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in this municipality and by the out-of-state
place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both
within and without Oklahoma and making sales of tangible, personal property at
such out-of-state place of business for use in this municipality. Such retailer
or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes, by the
Tax Commission in such a manner and subject to such regulations and agreements
as it shall prescribe.
      (2)   When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor
to collect the tax upon all tangible, personal property sold to his knowledge
for use within this municipality. Such authority and permit may be cancelled
when at any time the Tax Commission considers that such tax can more
effectively be collected from the person using such property in this
municipality.
      (3)   Provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are made
or completed by delivery to the purchaser within this municipality by the
retailer or vendor in such retailer’s or vendor’s vehicle, whether owned or
leased (not by common carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be
subject to applicable municipality sales tax at the point of delivery and the
tax shall be collected and reported under taxpayer’s sales tax permit number
accordingly.
(`90 Code, § 7-106)
(Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-130 REVOKING PERMITS.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the Oklahoma Use Tax Code or any order, rules or regulations of the Tax
Commission, the Tax Commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in
68 O.S. § 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued to such
retailer or vendor, and if this retailer or vendor is a corporation authorized
to do business in this state may, after notice and hearing above provided,
cancel the corporation’s license to do business in this state and shall issue a
new license only when such corporation has complied with the obligations under
this article, the Oklahoma Use Tax Code, or any order, rules or regulations of
the Tax Commission.
(`90 Code, § 7-107) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-131 REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma Use Tax Code;
and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by the Oklahoma Use Tax Code for the collection of
state use taxes.
(`90 Code, § 7-108) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-132 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   (1)   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this article,
and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified
are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting
and paying the tax levied by this article.
      (2)   Provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to
make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner
required by this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
   (B)   In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five days,
the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under
this article.
(`90 Code, § 7-109) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-133 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the municipality tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver or remittance
as applied in the administration of the state use tax provided in 68 O.S. §
220, and to accomplish the purposes of this section the applicable provisions
of 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this
article.
(`90 Code, § 7-110) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-134 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of municipality use tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the purpose of
this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article.
(`90 Code, § 7-111) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-135 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false or fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this article shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100. Each day of
noncompliance with this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 7-112) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-136 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipality use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the State
Use Tax Code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the municipality use
tax as is herein set forth in full.
(`90 Code, § 7-113) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-137 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma Use
Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this article. In addition thereto, the following words and terms shall be
defined as follows:
   CITY. The City of Guthrie, Oklahoma.
   TRANSACTION. Sale.
(`90 Code, § 7-116)
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the municipality government or the official
agency of the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by
law, to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
(`90 Code, § 7-117)
(Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-138 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purpose of the Oklahoma Use Tax Code.
(`90 Code, § 7-118) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-139 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Tax Commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma Use Tax Code are for the purpose of this article
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for any
additional municipality permit for the same purpose.
(`90 Code, § 7-119) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
§ 7-140 PURPOSES OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the
municipality, and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the
governing body of the municipality for any purpose for which funds may be
lawfully expended as authorized.
(`90 Code, § 7-120) (Ord. 2833, passed 12-15-87; Am. Ord. 3285, passed 3-1-16)
ARTICLE 7: PURCHASING AND BIDDING
§ 7-150 PURCHASING PROCEDURE.
   Pursuant to Article IV of the City Charter, as amended, there is hereby
established a personal property purchase and bid procedure to be wholly subject
to and carried out in conformance with Article IV, as amended.
(Ord. 3053, passed 9-21-99)
§ 7-151 EXCLUSIONS FROM BID PROCEDURE.
   The following types of purchase contracts are expressly excluded from the
personal property purchase and bid procedure herein established:
   (A)   Acquisition and sale of real property. The acquisition and sale of
real property shall be governed by the terms and provisions of Section
2-22: Acquisition and Sale of Real Property as set forth in
Article Il: Elective Officers, Their Duties and Powers of the City Charter.
   (B)   Emergency or unusual contracts. The procedure to execute emergency or
unusual contracts shall be governed by the terms and provisions of Section
4-1: Purchases And Sales as set forth in
Article IV: Personal Property Purchase and Bid Procedure of the City Charter.
(Ord. 3053, passed 9-21-99; Am. Ord. 3090, passed 9-18-01; Am. Ord. 3374,
passed 9-20-22)
§ 7-152 PERSONAL PURCHASING AND BIDDING.
   All purchase contracts, excluding those listed in
7-151 hereof involving an outlay of public funds shall follow the provision of:
   (A)   Public construction contract. All public construction contracts as
defined by Section Paragraph 7 of Title 61 O.S. 102 (OSCN 2021), Public
Competitive Bidding Act of 1974 as amended, shall be procured pursuant to the
provisions set forth in Title 61 O.S. § 101-138. [Paragraph 6 of Tit1e 61 O.S.
§ 102 (OSCN 2022)]
   (B)   Consultant. All consultants, as defined by Paragraph 3 of Title 61
O.S. § 61 (OSCN 2021), Public Buildings and Public Works as amended, shall be
procured pursuant to the provisions set forth in Title 61 O.S. § 62.
   (C)   All other purchase contracts not specifically excluded in §
7-151 hereof including any and all public construction contracts and/or
consultants shall follow the procurement provisions set forth by the city
purchasing policy adopted by a resolution of the City Council pursuant to
Section
4-1: Purchases and Sales of
Article IV: Personal Property Purchase And Bid Procedure of the City Charter.
      (1)   The City Manager shall be authorized to contract for and purchase,
or issue purchase orders for, all supplies, materials, and equipment of the
city, except every such contract or purchase exceeding the amount of $25,000
shall require the prior approval of the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council shall not except a particular contract, purchase,
or sale from the requirement of competitive bidding except as provided for
herein.
(Ord. 3053, passed 9-21-99; Am. Ord. 3374, passed 9-20-22)
§ 7-153 PAYMENT OF INVOICE OR ACCOUNT.
   (A)   Pursuant to Title 11 O.S. § 17-102: Payment of Invoice or Account,
subject to an internal control structure adequate to provide reasonable
assurance against unauthorized or illegal payments of invoices, the City
Manager may authorize payment of payroll, utility bills, or other usual and
regular obligations of the municipality.
   (B)   Pursuant to Title 62 O.S. § 310.1: Submission of Purchase Orders and
Contracts - Certificate of Encumbering Officer - Vendor's Invoice - Small
Purchases, subject to an internal control structure adequate to provide
reasonable assurance against unauthorized or illegal payments of invoices, the
City Manager may authorize payment of any contact or invoice not exceeding the
sum of $25,000.
(Ord. 3374, passed 9-20-22)
ARTICLE 8: IMPROVEMENTS
§ 7-165 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to enter into all necessary
contracts, not exceeding the sum of $25,000, per occurrence, for the emergency
repair or replacement of public improvements without prior approval of the City
Council and without competitive bidding. For purposes of this section,
“emergency” shall mean a determination by the City Manager that the condition
requiring repair or replacement results from a sudden unexpected happening or
unforeseen occurrence or condition, and is a situation wherein the public
health or safety is endangered.
   (B)   The City Manager shall furnish a written explanation of the emergency
to the City Council and record the same in the minutes of the next regular
Council meeting.
(Ord. 3017, passed 5-20-97)
ARTICLE 9: PAYMENT OF CLAIMS
§ 7-175 PAYMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be responsible for the review and approval for
payment of claims for all expenditures of the city. All claims reviewed and
approved by the City Manager which are equal to more than $5,000 shall be
submitted to the City Council for approval. All claims shall be made on the
city's official form of purchase orders which are properly issued by the city's
Purchasing Agent, who shall certify that the amount claimed is within the
approved budget for the line item account to be charged with payment. All
claims shall be properly completed and signed by the Purchasing Agent and the
department head initiating the purchase or expenditure prior to approval by the
City Manager.
   (B)   In order to expedite the payment of certain claims, the City Manager
is authorized to review and approve claims which are equal to or less than
$5,000 or periodic payments on a contract which has been previously entered
into by the city. Reports shall be prepared not less than once each month
listing all approved payments made for the preceding month or portion thereof
as may be appropriate, copies of each of which shall be provided to each
Council member.
   (C)   The City Manager is further authorized to establish procedures for
payment of claims more often than once a month when and at times as the
revenues, receipts and income actually received by the city are sufficient for
the purposes.
   (D)   All payments on claims shall be made on regular schedules which shall
assure payment of properly submitted claims in a timely manner. The City
Manager is authorized to make exceptions to the payments on claims on regular
schedules as may be necessary to preserve the fiscal integrity of the city.
   (E)   In order to lessen the burdens of government, it is declared to be the
policy of the city, within the bounds of the law, to attempt to take advantage
of the early or prompt payment discounts and quantity purchase discounts as may
be practical when revenues, receipts and income actually received by the city
are sufficient for purposes and which are appropriated within budgeted line
item accounts. To this end, the City Manager is authorized and directed to take
advantage of early or prompt payment discounts and quantity purchase discounts
as may be practical when revenues, receipts and income actually received by the
city are sufficient for the purposes and which are appropriated within budgeted
line item accounts.
(Ord. 2973, passed 6-15-93)
ARTICLE 10: STABILIZATION FUND
§ 7-176 STABILIZATION FUND BALANCE POLICY.
   (A)   In an effort to provide fiscal stability for the city and allow city
management to apply fiscal prudence in managing the budgetary condition of the
city, a desired stabilization fund balance level is established. The amounts
for the desired stabilization fund balance shall be deposited into a separate
bank account (hereafter referred to as “Stabilization Account”) and accounted
for in the General Fund. The amounts deposited in the Stabilization Account
(including interest) are to be used only for the purposes defined in this
section. In addition, the city may, at its discretion, invest some of the
stabilization monies of this separate bank account in to longer term
investments, such as fully-insured certificates of deposit, US treasuries
backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government, and ad
valorem-back judgments assessed against the city.
   (B)   The minimum amount to be contained in the Stabilization Account is
$1,000,000. The General Fund will exclude any additional funds added for
reporting purposes.
   (C)   Minimum funding for the Stabilization Account when the balance is less
than the minimum level as established in division (B) above shall not be less
than 75% fund balance that falls into the categories of assigned and unassigned
as of the most recent financial statements. This funding is to be transferred
annually to the Stabilization Account.
   (D)   All interest and investment income earned from the balance of the
Stabilization Account shall be left in the Stabilization Account.
   (E)   Amounts held in the Stabilization Account in excess of the minimum
amount established in this section may only be expended when certain specific
circumstances exist. The circumstances requiring the expenditure of
Stabilization Account funds are not expected to recur on a routine basis. The
circumstances when it is necessary to appropriate or spend Stabilization
Account funds are subject to the objective criteria outlining the parameters of
acceptable uses of Stabilization Account funds included below. The existence of
the circumstances must be declared by a five-sevenths majority vote of all of
the members of the governing body establishing that one or more of the criteria
listed below exists:
      (1)   Expenditures for emergency situations for life, health, or public
safety issues for which no existing appropriation exists;
      (2)   Situations where a significant revenue decline in excess of 5% of
General Fund original budgeted estimated revenues (excluding transfers in)
arises that could not have reasonably been foreseen, and for which new revenue
is not available and transfers of existing appropriations are not considered
feasible or appropriate in maintaining existing service levels;
      (3)   Correcting the results of an inaccurate estimate, accounting error,
or budgeting error in excess of 5% of General Fund original budgeted estimated
revenues (excluding transfers in);
      (4)   Expenditures where the proposed use is of a nonoperational nature
involving capital or technical purchases having a useful life of greater than
five years that will improve the efficiency of the city government. These
efficiency improvements should result in tangible benefits that can be measured
financially, through better service to the citizens, or in increased
productivity for city employees;
      (5)   Expenditures where the proposed use is of a nonrecurring nature,
such as start-up costs of a program whose ongoing costs are otherwise funded,
matching funds for a grant, or up-front payment of grant eligible expenses to
be reimbursed by grant revenues. These expenditures should result in tangible
benefits that can be measured financially, through better service to the
citizens, or in increased productivity for city employees;
      (6)   Expenditures and/or longer term investments where the proposed use
is related to a judgment against the city as determined by any court of
competent jurisdiction or an administrative law judge or an administrative
agency designated by the state Legislature to issue workers’ compensation
judgments, decisions and determinations.
   (F)   Amounts held in the Stabilization Account that are below the minimum
threshold may be expended only under specific limited circumstances. The
circumstances when it is necessary to appropriate or spend below the minimum
amount required by this section, are set out below. The existence of the
circumstances must be declared by a five-sevenths majority vote of all of the
members of the governing body establishing that one or more of the criteria
listed below exists:
      (1)   Expenditures for emergency situations resulting from natural
disasters for life, health, or public safety issues for which no existing
appropriation exists;
      (2)   Situations where a significant revenue decline in excess of 5% of
General Fund original budgeted estimated revenues (excluding transfers in)
arises that could not have reasonably been foreseen, and for which new revenue
is not available and transfers of existing appropriations are not considered
feasible or appropriate in maintaining existing service levels;
      (3)   Correcting the results of an inaccurate estimate, accounting error,
or budgeting error in excess of 5% of General Fund original budgeted estimated
revenues (excluding transfers in);
      (4)   Expenditures and/or longer term investments where the proposed use
is related to a judgment against the city as determined by any court of
competent jurisdiction or an administrative law judge or an administrative
agency designated by the state Legislature to issue workers’ compensation
judgments, decisions and determinations.
(Ord. 3239, passed 8-21-12; Am. Ord. 3276, passed 10-20-15; Am. Ord. 3308,
passed 6-20-17)
ARTICLE 11: CONVENTION AND VISITOR BUREAU
§ 7-180 CREATION OF GUTHRIE CONVENTION AND VISITOR BUREAU.
   There is hereby established the Guthrie Convention and Visitor Bureau as the
title under which a contract service provider may be allowed to conduct
convention, tourism and visitor development services.
(Ord. 3263, passed 10-7-14)
§ 7-181 PURPOSE.
   The primary purpose of the Guthrie Convention and Visitor Bureau is to
promote general interest in and for the city; to improve conditions of all
types of businesses in and around Guthrie, by increasing visitors and tourism
in Guthrie; to promote Guthrie as a meeting place, athletic venue and overnight
visitor destination.
(Ord. 3263, passed 10-7-14)
§ 7-182 CONTRACT.
   The city or the Guthrie Convention and Visitor Bureau may contract with any
entity or entities to provide convention, tourism and visitor development
services. The city or the Guthrie Convention and Visitor Bureau may enter into
one or more such contracts as determined to be needed by the Convention and
Visitor Bureau and/or the City Council. The contractor may be designated to
operate on the behalf of the City of Guthrie as the Guthrie Convention and
Visitor Bureau.
(Ord. 3263, passed 10-7-14)
§ 7-183 CONVENTION AND VISITOR BOARD.
   There is further established a Convention and Visitor Board (CVB) consisting
of seven members. These seven members shall be determined by the City Council.
Each ward shall nominate one Guthrie resident or business owner to set on the
board, with an additional four at large members. The Mayor and City Council
shall appoint two ex officio non-voting City Council Members to serve on the
CVB. The CVB as a whole will select the Board Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
each year.
(Ord. 3263, passed 10-7-14)
§ 7-184 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The term of office for the seven Council appointed members of the
Convention and Visitor Bureau shall be three-year overlapping terms. The
membership shall consist of seven members appointed by the Guthrie City Council
as described in §
7-183 above. The terms of the seven members shall be as follows: The term of
three members shall be for a term ending the thirtieth day of September 2015;
the term of three members shall be for a term ending the thirtieth day of
September 2016; and one member shall be for a term ending the thirtieth day of
September 2017. Upon the expiration of the terms of the members, successors
shall be appointed for three-year terms. Members may be removed with or without
cause by the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   If any member shall be absent from more than one-half of all the
meetings of the Convention and Visitor Bureau meetings held within four
consecutive calendar months, he or she shall thereupon cease to hold office.
(Ord. 3263, passed 10-7-14)
§ 7-185 QUORUM.
   Four members of the Convention and Visitor Bureau shall constitute a quorum.
Business may be transacted by a majority of the quorum present.
(Ord. 3263, passed 10-7-14)
§ 7-186 MEETINGS.
   The Convention and Visitor Bureau shall meet on a monthly basis to provide
direction and conduct business activities pertaining to the visitors and
tourism for the Guthrie area. Emergency meetings may be called by four members
of the Committee.
(Ord. 3263, passed 10-7-14)
§ 7-187 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Convention and Visitor Bureau shall:
   (A)   Gather information and ideas; conduct research; assist the contract
service provider (if applicable) in advertising and promotional programs,
travel to solicit conventions, trade shows, agricultural, educational and
special events; assist in advising the City Council and the contract service
provider (if applicable) in the promotion of the city’s image so that Guthrie
will be developed and maintained as a visitor’s and tourism destination.
   (B)   Advise the contract service provider (if applicable) of the
promotional, recreational, commercial, industrial and economic events in,
around and for the benefit of the city and its residents.
   (C)   Encourage, promote and foster visitor and tourism conventions,
conferences and tourism development in the city and assist the contract service
provider (if applicable) in the solicitation of visitor attractions, events,
tourism, conferences, conventions and meetings in the city.
   (D)   Submit to the city annually a recommended budget of operations for the
forthcoming fiscal year.
   (E)   CVB meetings are governed by the State of Oklahoma Open Meeting Law.
   (F)   Funds of the Convention and Visitor Bureau or its contractor (if
applicable) shall be subject to annual audit according to accepted governmental
accounting principles.
(Ord. 3263, passed 10-7-14)
CHAPTER 8: FIRE PREVENTION
Article 1: Fire Prevention Code
   
8-1.   International Fire Code 2018 Edition adopted
   
8-2.   New materials; permits
Article 2: Fireworks
   
8-20.   Definitions
   
8-21.   Sale and firing
   
8-22.   Public discharge
   
8-23.   Seizure
Article 3: Burnings
   
8-35.   Permits
   
8-36.   Issuance
Article 4: Fire Control
   
8-50.   Authority at emergencies
   
8-51.   Interference prohibited
   
8-52.   Compliance with orders
   
8-53.   Crossing fire hoses
   
8-54.   Definition
   
8-55.   Operation upon approach
   
8-56.   Following fire apparatus
   
8-57.   Unlawful boarding or tampering
   
8-58.   Damage or injury
   
8-59.   Emergency vehicle operation
   
8-60.   Blocking fire hydrants
   
8-61.   Hydrant use approval
   
8-62.   Public water supply
   
8-63.   Yard systems
   
8-64.   Maintenance of equipment
   
8-65.   Sale of extinguishers
   
8-66.   Street obstructions
   
8-67.   Administrative liability
   
8-68.   Jurisdictional liability
Article 5: Protection Outside City
   
8-80.   Protection outside city
   
8-90.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 8-1 ADOPTION.
   International Fire Code 2018 Edition Adopted.
   (A)   A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the Planning
Department, being marked and designated as the International Fire Code, 2018
Edition, including appendix chapters C, D, and E, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the fire code of the
city, regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire
and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous
substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or
property in the occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the
fire code on file in the office of the Planning Department are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this article, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed herein.
   (B)   The following sections of the International Fire Code, 2018 Edition,
are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: City of Guthrie
      (2)   Section 101.1.4, insert “Fees for permits and other services shall
be set by Council via resolution.”
      (3)   Section 102.1 insert “(5) Existing structures that have been
unoccupied or condemned for more than 90 days”
      (4)   Section 110.4 insert “misdemeanor; $200 plus court costs; 10 days.”
      (5)   Section 112.4 insert “$100 plus court costs; $200 plus court
costs.”
      (6)   To ensure compatibility with the present key box system and related
devices, the manufacturer of such devices shall be the Knox Company and will be
required on all commercial buildings with fire alarms or fire suppression
systems and other occupancies as determined by the Fire Code official.
(`90 Code, § 8-1) (Ord. 2692, passed 9-15-81; Am. Ord. 3072, passed 10-3-00;
Am. Ord. 3125, passed 11-18-03; Am. Ord. 3175, passed 4-4-06; Am. Ord. 3176,
passed 4-4-06; Am. Ord. 3387, passed 2-7-23)
§ 8-2 NEW MATERIALS; PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in any business activity involving the
handling, storage or use of hazardous substances, materials or devices; to
maintain, store or handle materials; to conduct processes which produce
conditions hazardous to life or property; to install equipment used in
connection with the activities; or to establish a place of assembly without
first notifying the Fire Official and obtaining permits as may be required.
(`90 Code, § 8-7) (Ord. 2778, passed 6-4-85)
ARTICLE 2: FIREWORKS
§ 8-20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS.
      (1)   Any combustible or explosive composition or any substance or
combination thereof prepared for the purpose of producing visible and/or
audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation and shall
include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons or toy guns in which
explosives are used, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles,
sparklers, pop bottle rockets or other devices of similar construction, or any
device which contains any explosive or flammable compound.
      (2)   FIREWORKS shall not include auto flares, aircraft flares, paper
caps which contain not in excess of an average of one-quarter of a gram of
explosive content per cap, manufactured in accordance with the specifications
of the State Department of Transportation. The term FIREWORKS also shall not
include signal flares and torpedoes of the type and kind only used by and
solely for the purpose of military and police use, nor shall it include hunting
and sporting ammunition as component parts thereof.
   FIREWORKS DISPLAY. The use, discharge or display of fireworks in a manner to
provide audio and visual entertainment to a group or gathering of persons with
safe supervision.
(`90 Code, § 8-9) (Ord. 2617, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see 11 O.S. § 22-110
§ 8-21 SALE AND FIRING.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense to sell, distribute or to discharge
fireworks within the corporate limits of the city unless otherwise specifically
provided for in this article.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to display for
sale, offer for sale or sell within the corporate limits of the city any
fireworks of any type, nature or description, provided, however, that this
section shall not prohibit the lawful sale of fireworks between the dates of
June 15 and July 6 and the dates of December 15 and January 2. The sale of
fireworks shall require a permit purchased from the city in an amount set forth
by resolution of the governing body and shall at all times be undertaken in
compliance with provisions of Oklahoma Statutes and Guthrie municipal
requirements.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to set off or
detonate any fireworks of an explosive nature or noise emitting type, nature or
description within the corporate limits of the city unless requirements set
forth herein are met.
   (C)   Persons within the corporate limits may use or otherwise discharge
Class C fireworks only from 11:30 p.m. to 11:59 p.m. on December 31; from 12:00
a.m. to 12:30 a.m. on January 1; and from 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. on June 30,
July 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Such fireworks must be discharged on a non-combustible surface of
sufficient size to contain the entire ground portion of the display; must be
located on residential property outside of the Capitol Townsite Historic
District as provided in division (C)(2) below and not closer than 25 feet from
any permanent structure, and;
      (2)   (a)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to set
off or detonate any fireworks of an explosive nature or noise emitting type,
nature or description within the Capitol Townsite Historic District as more
particularly described below and shown on Exhibit “A” Capitol Townsite Historic
District Boundary Map to Ord. 3311, incorporated herein by reference as if
fully set out herein, unless approved by the City Manager or his or her
designee.
         (b)   All of lots 13-115, Block 31, all of Blocks 43, 44, 45, 46, 47
and 49, all of Lots 1-12, Block 54, all of Blocks 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60 and
61, all of lots 9-20, Block 68, all of Blocks 70 and 71 in that part of
Guthrie, Oklahoma known as Guthrie Proper and also,
         (c)   The south 16-23/ feet of Lot 13, all of Lots 14-18, Block 33,
all of Lots 7-12, Block 34, all of Block 36, all of Lots 13-24, Block 46, all
of Lots 13-24, Block 47, all of Lots 13-24, Block 48, all of Blocks 49, 50, 51
and 52, all of Lots 1-12, Block 61, all of Lots 1-14, Block 62, all of Blocks
63 and 64, all of Lots 9-14, Block 65, all of Lots 7-18, Block 77 in that part
of Guthrie, Oklahoma known as East Guthrie Townsite; also known as:
         (d)   Beginning at the intersection of Noble Avenue and 2nd Street,
then east on Noble Avenue to Wentz Street, then south to the east/west alley
between Cleveland Avenue and Oklahoma Avenue, then east to Oak Street, then
south to Oklahoma Avenue, then west to Ash Street, then south to the east/west
alley between Harrison Avenue and Vilas Street, then west to the Jelsma
Stadium, then south to Springer Avenue, then west to the north/south alley
between Springer Avenue and Perkins Avenue, then west on Perkins Avenue to
Division Street, then north to Springer Avenue, then west to 2nd Street, then
north to Vilas Avenue, then west to 4th Street, then south to Springer Avenue,
then west to the BNSF Railroad, then northeast along the BNSF Railroad tracks
to Harrison Avenue, then northwest to the east/west alley between Oklahoma
Avenue and Harrison Avenue, then north to the 5th Street Bridge, then northeast
to 2nd Street, then north on 2nd Street to Point of Beginning.
      (3)   An adult person over the age of 18 shall obtain a permit from the
city at a cost set forth by resolution by the governing body, said permit
identifying the adult in charge of this use by name and address, and also
identifying the proposed location on the permit holder's property. Applications
for said permits shall be made available during normal business hours from the
city and separate permits shall be required for the use and discharge of
fireworks during the dates surrounding the 4th of July and the time frame
surrounding New Year’s Eve; and
      (4)   The adult permit holder in charge of the use must be present for
any household member to use the fireworks and within 100 feet of the point of
display, and have the permit posted in a place of prominence during the
discharge of the fireworks for examination by any law enforcement officer. The
permit holder is further responsible for cleaning up any debris caused by any
person discharging fireworks under the holder permit; and
      (5)   Private persons may not use or discharge fireworks on any public
street, public easement, or public property unless approved by the city; and
      (6)   In the event that the display of fireworks is open to the public,
or more than 25 individuals are present during the discharge of fireworks then
the gathering shall be considered a public discharge and must get approval from
the city in addition to obtaining a permit as required by §
8-22 hereof; and
      (7)   In the event that the Governor of the State of Oklahoma calls a red
flag fire alert or burn ban for the area encompassing the city and/or the Fire
Department determines that the city is in fire danger due to the weather
conditions, the City Manager of the city may declare the use of fireworks to be
illegal and all fireworks permits to be void, without refund during the
emergency period.
(`90 Code, § 8-10) (Ord. 2517, passed - -; Am. Ord. 3219, passed 6-7-11; Am.
Ord. 3250, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3311, passed 10-3-17; Am. Ord. 3393, passed
6-20-23)
§ 8-22 PUBLIC DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, or in his or her absence, the Fire Chief of the
city, may designate a public area or areas for the supervised public discharge
or display of fireworks by an organization or group of individuals.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal may adopt rules and regulations for granting and
issuing permits for the supervised public display of fireworks.
   (C)   Permits may be granted and issued upon application to the Fire Chief
after the application is approved by the Chief of Police of the city and after
the bond in the amount of $1,000 has been filed with the City Clerk.
   (D)   Every display shall be managed and supervised by an operator who shall
be approved by the Fire Marshal and the Chief of Police prior to the
commencement of the display.
   (E)   Bond shall be filed and application shall be made in writing not less
than 30 days prior to the date set for the display.
   (F)   Any fireworks which have not been discharged before the termination of
the display shall be disposed of or stored in a safe manner approved by the
Fire Marshal.
(`90 Code, § 8-11) (Ord. 2617, passed - -)
§ 8-23 SEIZURE.
   The presence of any fireworks within the corporate limits of the city in
violation of this article is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The Fire
Marshal, or in his or her absence, the Fire Chief, is hereby directed to seize,
remove and cause to be safely destroyed any fireworks found in violation of
this article.
(`90 Code, § 8-12) (Ord. 2517, passed - -)
ARTICLE 3: BURNINGS
§ 8-35 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn grass, weeds, brush, trash or other
debris in the city limits, without first obtaining approval and a permit in
writing from the Fire Chief or his or her designate.
   (B)   The permit shall designate the material, time and conditions of
burning and the permit shall be good for only one day or for the hour or hours
therein stated and the burning shall be only in the manner and at the time
determined by the Fire Chief or his or her designate.
(`90 Code, § 8-13) (Ord. 2778, passed 6-4-85)
§ 8-36 ISSUANCE.
   The Fire Chief or his or her designate shall issue no permit, unless, in his
or her judgment, such is entirely safe and the most feasible way of eliminating
the grass, weeds, brush, trash or other debris.
(`90 Code, § 8-14) (Ord. 2778, passed 6-4-85)
ARTICLE 4: FIRE CONTROL
§ 8-50 AUTHORITY AT EMERGENCIES.
   The Fire Chief or duly authorized representative, as may be in charge at the
scene of a fire or other emergency involving the protection of life and/or
property, is empowered to direct the operation as may be necessary to
extinguish or control any suspected or reported fires, gas leaks or other
hazardous conditions or situations or of taking any other action necessary in
the reasonable performance of their duty. The Fire Official may prohibit any
person, vehicle or object from approaching the scene and may remove or cause to
be removed from the scene any person, vehicle or object which may impede or
interfere with the operations of the Fire Department. The Fire Official may
remove or cause to be removed any person, vehicle or object from hazardous
areas. All persons ordered to leave a hazardous area shall do so immediately
and shall not re-enter the area until authorized to do so by the Fire Official.
(`90 Code, § 8-15) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-51 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to interfere with, attempt to interfere with, conspire
to interfere with, obstruct or restrict the mobility of, or block the path of
travel of any Fire Department emergency vehicle in any way, or to interfere
with, attempt to interfere, conspire to interfere with, obstruct or hamper any
Fire Department operation.
(`90 Code, § 8-16) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-52 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS.
   A person shall not willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order
or direction of the Fire Official or to interfere with the compliance attempts
of another individual.
(`90 Code, § 8-17) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-53 CROSSING FIRE HOSES.
   A vehicle shall not be driven or propelled over any unprotected fire hose of
the Fire Department when laid down or, any street, alley way, private drive or
any ocher vehicular roadway without the consent of the Fire Official in command
of the operation.
(`90 Code, § 8-18) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-54 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Those which are defined and authorized under
the laws or the state.
(`90 Code, § 8-19) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-55 OPERATION ON APPROACH.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, giving audible and
visual signal, the operator of every other vehicle shall immediately drive the
same to a position as near as possible and parallel to the right-hand edge or
curb of the street or roadway, clear of any intersection, and shall stop and
remain in the position until the authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles shall
have passed, unless otherwise directed by the Fire Official or a police
officer.
(`90 Code, § 8-20) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-56 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, to follow closer than 300 feet along any fire apparatus
traveling in response to a fire alarm or to drive any vehicle within the block
or immediate area where a fire apparatus has stooped in answer to a fire alarm.
(`90 Code, § 8-21) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-57 UNLAWFUL BOARDING OR TAMPERING.
   A person shall not without proper authorization from the Fire Official in
charge of the Fire Department emergency equipment, cling to, attach himself or
herself to, climb upon or into, board or swing upon any Fire Department
emergency vehicle, whether the same is in motion or at rest, or sound the
siren, horn, bell or other sound-producing device thereon, or to manipulate or
tamper with, or attempt to manipulate or tamper with any levers, valves,
switches, starting devices, brakes, pumps or any equipment or protective
clothing on, or a part of, any Fire Department emergency vehicle.
(`90 Code, § 8-22) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-58 DAMAGE OR INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or deface, or attempt or
conspire to damage or deface any Fire Department emergency vehicle at any time,
or to injure or attempt to injure or conspire to injure Fire Department
personnel while performing Departmental duties.
(`90 Code, § 8-23) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-59 EMERGENCY VEHICLE OPERATION.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle, as defined herein, shall not
sound the siren thereon or have the front red lights on or disobey any existing
traffic regulation, except when the vehicle is responding to an emergency call
or when responding to, but not upon returning from a fire. Tactical strategies
such as, but not restricted to, “move-ups” do not constitute an emergency call.
   (B)   The driver of any emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand irrespective of the provisions of existing traffic
regulations;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or other sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limit so long as the action does not
endanger life or property;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions;
      (5)   The exemptions herein granted to an emergency vehicle shall apply
only when the driver of any vehicle while in motion sounds audible signal by
bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the
vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the vehicle.
(`90 Code, § 8-24) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-60 BLOCKING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to obscure from view, damage, deface, obstruct or
restrict the access to any fire hydrant or any Fire Department connection for
the pressurization of fire suppression systems, including fire hydrants and
Fire Department connections that are located on public or private streets and
access lanes or on private property.
   (B)   If upon the expiration of the time mentioned in a notice of violation,
obstructions or encroachments are not removed, the Fire Prevention Code
Official shall proceed to remove the same. Cost incurred in the performance of
necessary work shall be paid from the municipal treasury on certificate of the
Fire Prevention Code Official and with the approval of the chief administrative
official. The legal authority of the municipality shall institute appropriate
action for the recovery of the costs.
(`90 Code, § 8-25) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-61 HYDRANT USE APPROVAL.
   A person shall not use or operate any fire hydrant intended for use of the
Fire Department for fire suppression purposes unless the person first secures a
permit for the use from the Fire Official and the water company having
jurisdiction. This section shall not apply to the use of the hydrants by a
person employed by, and authorized to make the use by, the water company having
jurisdiction.
(`90 Code, § 8-26) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-62 PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
   The Fire Prevention Code Official shall recommend to the chief
administrative official of the municipality the location or relocation of new
or existing fire hydrants and the placement or replacement of inadequate water
mains located upon public property and deemed necessary to provide an adequate
fire flow and distribution pattern. Afire hydrant shall not be placed into or
removed from service until approved by the Fire Prevention Code Official.
(`90 Code, § 8-27) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-63 YARD SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All new and existing ship yards, oil storage plants, lumber yards,
amusement or exhibition parks, and educational or institutional complexes and
similar occupancies and uses involving high fire or life hazards, and which are
located more than 150 feet from a public street or which require quantities of
water beyond the capabilities of the public water distribution system shall be
provided with properly placed fire hydrants. The fire hydrants shall be capable
of supplying fire flows as required by the Fire Prevention Code Official and
shall be connected to a water system in accordance with accepted engineering
practices. The Fire Prevention Code Official shall designate and approve the
number and location of fire hydrants.
   (B)   The Fire Prevention Code Official may require the installation of
sufficient fire hose and equipment housed in accordance with the approved rules
and may require the establishment of a trained fire brigade when the hazard
involved requires such measures. Private hydrants shall not be placed into or
removed from service until approved by the Fire Prevention Code Official.
(`90 Code, § 8-28) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-64 MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT.
   A person shall not obstruct, remove, tamper with or otherwise disturb any
fire hydrant or fire appliance required to be installed or maintained under the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code, except for the purpose of extinguishing
fire, training or testing purposes, recharging or making necessary repairs, or
when permitted by the Fire Prevention Code Official. Whenever a fire appliance
is removed as herein permitted, it shall be replaced or reinstalled as soon as
the purpose for which it was removed has been accomplished. Defective and
nonapproved fire appliances or equipment shall be replaced or repaired as
directed by the Fire Prevention Code Official.
(`90 Code, § 8-29) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-65 SALE OF EXTINGUISHERS.
   (A)   A person shall not sell, trade, loan or give away any form, type or
kind of fire extinguisher which is not approved by the Fire Prevention Code
Official, or which is not in proper working order, or the contents of which do
not meet the requirements of the Fire Prevention Code Official.
   (B)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to the sale, trade or
exchange of obsolete or damaged equipment for junk when the units are
permanently disfigured or marked with a permanent sign identifying the unit as
junk.
(`90 Code, § 8-30) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-66 STREET OBSTRUCTIONS.
   A person or persons shall not erect, construct, place or maintain any
fences, gates, chains, bars, pipes, wood or metal horses or any other type of
obstruction in or on any street within the boundaries of the municipality. The
word street, as used herein, shall mean any roadway accessible to the public
for vehicular traffic, including, but not limited to private streets or access
lanes, as well as all public streets and highways within the boundaries of the
municipality.
(`90 Code, § 8-31) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-67 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or duly authorized representative charged with the
enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction, shall not thereby
be rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage to persons or property as a result of any act required
or permitted in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted against
any office or employee because of an act performed in the lawful discharge or
duties and under the provisions of this code shall be defended by the legal
representative of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the
proceedings.
   (B)   The Code Official or any subordinates of the Code Official shall not
be liable for costs in any action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in
pursuance of the provisions of this code and any official, officer or employee,
acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free from liability for acts
performed under any of its provisions or by reason of any act or omission in
the performance of the official duties in connection therewith.
(`90 Code, § 8-32) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-68 JURISDICTIONAL LIABILITY.
   The jurisdiction shall not be liable under this code for any damage to
persons or property, by reason of the inspection or reinspection of buildings,
structures or equipment authorized herein, or failure to inspect or reinspect
the buildings, structures or equipment or by reason of the approval or
disapproval of any building, structure or equipment authorized herein.
(`90 Code, § 8-33) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
ARTICLE 5: PROTECTION OUTSIDE CITY
§ 8-80 PROTECTION OUTSIDE CITY.
   The Fire Department of the city is hereby authorized and directed to respond
to all fire calls outside the city limits to property within a distance of five
miles from the nearest public fire station. Distances from fire station and
public fire hydrants to risk must be measured over highways accessible to fire
apparatus. The Fire Chief, or in his or her absence, the Assistant Fire Chief,
for good cause, may authorize fire calls outside of the five-mile limit above
set forth. The Fire Chief may for the mutual benefit of the city and other
communities, enter into reciprocating agreements with other communities.
(`90 Code, § 8-34) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
§ 8-90 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
set forth in this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 8-35) (Ord. 2828, passed 11-3-87)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
CHAPTER 9: GARBAGE AND OTHER REFUSE
Article 1: General Provisions
   
9-1.   Sanitation Department
   
9-2.   Use of city service; duty to request service; service required for all
producers
   
9-3.   Frequency of collection
   
9-4.   Definitions
   
9-5.   Containers
   
9-6.   Removal of garbage or refuse prohibited
   
9-7.   Placement of containers; misplacing refuse
   
9-8.   Charges
   
9-9.   Sanitary landfills
   
9-20.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 9-1 SANITATION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There shall, at the option of City Council or any of its duly
constituted authorities, be the Sanitation Department, the head of which shall
be the Superintendent appointed by the City Manager. It shall be the duty of
the Sanitation Department to collect and dispose of garbage and other refuse as
provided by the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall supervise and inspect the work of the garbage
and refuse collectors. He or she shall prescribe standards to which the work of
the collectors shall conform and he or she shall supervise all work. He or she
shall see that all ordinances pertaining to the work are enforced.
   (C)   The city, and any of its duly constituted authorities, in lieu of
operating the Sanitation Department, reserve the right to contract out all or
any portion of its sanitation collection and disposal services to a private
contractor(s) upon the terms and conditions as may from time to time be
mutually agreed upon.
(`90 Code, § 9-1) (Am. Ord. 2999, passed 3-21-95)
§ 9-2 USE OF CITY SERVICE; DUTY TO REQUEST SERVICE; SERVICE REQUIRED FOR ALL
PRODUCERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person occupying or having control of
the occupancy of any premises located in the city:
      (1)   To notify the city of the beginning and ending of such occupancy:
      (2)   To establish an account with the city for sanitation services;
      (3)   To post the required security deposit with the city;
      (4)   To initiate solid waste, garbage and refuse pick-up service.
   (B)   The failure of any owner, rental agent or occupant of such premises to
take actions enumerated in the above subsection shall not prevent or in any way
impair or impede the city from adding the address of such premises to the
proper solid waste collection route records and providing such service and
otherwise enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory measures herein
prescribed and causing the fee or charge thereof to be paid.
   (C)   The city, through an authorized employee, is authorized to post a
notice on vacant or unoccupied properties advising new occupants of the
requirements enumerated in this section. It shall be unlawful for any owner,
rental agent or occupant of any posted premises to remove said notice without
first having established services as provided herein.
   (D)   Each waste or refuse producer shall pay for solid waste, trash and
refuse collection services in accordance with the rate established by
resolution of the council.
   (E)   Violation of this section shall be an offense punishable by fine not
exceeding $500. Each day that a violation exists shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(`90 Code, § 9-2) (Am. Ord. 2999, passed 3-21-95; Am. Ord. 3197, passed 9-16-
08)
§ 9-3 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   The Council or any of its duly constituted authorities by motion or
resolution shall have power to prescribe the frequency and schedule of garbage
and refuse collection from premises of various kinds, such as residential,
business and other premises.
(`90 Code, § 9-3) (Am. Ord. 2999, passed 3-21-95)
§ 9-4 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAGS. Plastic sacks designed to store refuse with sufficient wall strength
to maintain physical integrity when lifted by the top. Total weight of a bag
and its contents shall not exceed 35 pounds.
   BULKY WASTE. Stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, washing machines, furniture
and other waste materials other than construction debris, dead animals,
hazardous waste or stable matter with weights or volumes greater than those
allowed for polycarts or metal dumpsters, as the case may be.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
   DEAD ANIMALS. Animals or portions thereof equal to or greater than ten
pounds in weight that have expired from any cause, except those slaughtered or
killed for human use.
   GARBAGE. Every accumulation of animal or vegetable matter or both; that is,
the refuse matter from kitchens, pantries, dining rooms or other parts of
hotels, restaurants, boarding houses, tenement houses, dwelling houses, market
houses, public institutions, private hospitals, all animal matter or refuse
matter from butcher shops, the animal matter from poultry houses or stores, the
refuse animal matter from fish stores or other businesses or occupations, any
and all dead animals of less than ten pounds in weight, except those
slaughtered for human consumption; every accumulation of waste (animal,
vegetable and/or other matter) that results from the preparation, processing,
consumption, dealing in, handling, packing, canning, storage, transportation,
decay or decomposition of meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruits, grains or other
animal or vegetable matter (including, not by way of limitation, used tin cans
and other food containers and all putrescible or easily decomposable waste
animal or vegetable matter which is likely to attract flies or rodents);
except, in all cases, any matter included in the definition of bulky waste,
construction debris, dead animals, hazardous waste, rubbish or stable matter.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste, in any amount, which is defined, characterized or
designated as hazardous by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or
appropriate state agency by or pursuant to federal or state law and shall also
include motor oil, gasoline, paint and paint cans.
   POLYCART. A durable plastic container with an attached lid and designed to
hold 95 gallons of materials.
   REFUSE. All waste wood, wood products, three trimmings, grass cuttings, dead
plants, weeds, leaves, dead trees or branches thereof, chips, shavings,
sawdust, printed matter, paper, pasteboard, rags, straw, used and discarded
mattresses, used and discarded clothing, used and discarded shoes and boots,
combustible waste pulp and other products, such as are used for packaging or
wrapping crockery and  glass, broken ware, tin cans or vessels, iron or other
metallic vessels or their parts or other metallic scraps, wood or paper boxes,
cartons or other parts of paper material, ashes, cinders, floor sweepings,
glass, mineral or metallic substances, all animal and vegetable matter not
defined as garbage and any and all other waste materials not included in the
definition of bulky waste or stable matter.
   STABLE MATTER.  All manure and other waste matter normally accumulated in or
about a stable, or any animal, livestock or poultry enclosure, and resulting
from the keeping of animals, poultry or livestock.
(`90 Code, § 9-4) (Am. Ord. 2999, passed 3-21-95)
§ 9-5 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Every residence, business, apartment house or dwelling within the
corporate limits of the city, shall have and maintain at least one durable
plastic polycart or receptacle, as directed by the City Manager or his or her
designee, with a capacity of not more than 95 gallons each, with a tight
fitting lid thereon at all times.
   (B)   In the event one durable plastic polycart or receptacle is
insufficient for any one of the residences, businesses, apartment houses or
dwellings to hold the quantity of refuse that will accumulate between
collections, then a sufficient number of polycarts or receptacles shall be
provided by the city, any of its duly constituted authorities or its private
contractor(s), or on a limited temporary basis, bags shall be used. Business
establishments may use a metal dumpster or other receptacle with a tight cover
as directed by the City Manager or his or her designee for the accumulation of
rubbish or garbage, and the metal dumpster or other receptacle shall be of a
construction and be located and maintained so as not to create a fire hazard or
provide harborage for rodents or the breeding of insects. Tree cuttings and the
like shall be bundled in lengths not to exceed three feet and not to exceed 35
pounds in weight.
(`90 Code, § 9-5) (Am. Ord. 2999, passed 3-21-95)
§ 9-6 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, other than
the city, any of its duly constituted authorities, and/or its private
contractor(s), if any, to remove from any premises in the city or to transport
through the streets, alleys or public places, any garbage or refuse subject to
availability of services to be provided by the city, any of its duly
constituted authorities and/or its private contractors.
   (B)   The City Council and any of its duly constituted authorities reserves
the right and may enter into a contract(s) with some suitable person or persons
for the removal of garbage and refuse upon the terms and conditions as the
Council may prescribe.
   (C)   The City Council and any of its duly constituted authorities shall
have the right to terminate any contract or agreement upon ten days written
notice.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation, other than the city or its duly
constituted authorities or its private contractors who violates the provisions
of this chapter is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. Each separate
removal from individual property shall constitute a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 9-6) (Am. Ord. 2999, passed 3-21-95; Am. Ord. 3197, passed 9-16-
08)
§ 9-7 PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS; MISPLACING REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following without
permission of the City Manager or Manager’s designee:
      (1)   Remove from any premise or premises situated in the city, any
garbage, refuse, rubbish or other offensive unwholesome matter;
      (2)   Transport on streets, alleys or public places any garbage, refuse
and rubbish, or any other offensive matter;
      (3)   Deposit any garbage, refuse or other solid waste matter in any cart
or metallic container which has not been specifically assigned to the depositor
for disposal of wastes;
      (4)   Place for collection at any residence or business any waste that is
prohibitive or restricted by this article;
      (5)   Place for collection at any residence or business garbage, refuse
or rubbish that has been generated at any location other than the residence or
business where the trash is placed for collection.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to deposit for
collection on any street, alley or parking in the city or any private property,
any refuse except as herein provided. Each day said refuse is permitted to
remain or any provision of this section is violated shall constitute a separate
offense punishable by a fine in the amount of $500 per offense.
(`90 Code, § 9-7) (Am. Ord. 2999, passed 3-21-95; Am. Ord. 3197, passed 9-16-
08)
§ 9-8 CHARGES.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall charge and collect for refuse and garbage service
monthly fees which shall be established by the City Council by motion or
resolution.
(`90 Code, § 9-8)
   (B)   All bills for sanitary service, otherwise known as garbage and refuse
service, rendered by the city, any of its duly constituted authorities, or its
private contractor(s), shall be included on water or utility bills of the city.
No payment shall be accepted by the City Clerk, except for the full amount
billed for all services and delinquent sanitary bills, otherwise known as
garbage and refuse service bills, shall carry the same due dates, grace periods
and penalties as water or utility bills.
(`90 Code, § 9-9) (Am. Ord. 2999, passed 3-21-95)
§ 9-9 SANITARY LANDFILLS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit, unload or dispose of garbage and/or rubbish
at the sanitary landfill operated by the city at locations other than as may be
directed by appropriate signs or directives of employees of the city.
   (B) Any person who violates the provisions of this section or fails to
comply with the directives of the city employees in regard to the disposal of
garbage and rubbish shall be guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 9-10) (Ord. 2621, passed - -)
§ 9-20 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of as offense and shall be punished as provided in this code of
ordinances. Each day upon which a violation thereof continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 9-11) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Article 1: Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   
10-1.   Title of code
   
10-2.   Interpretation
   
10-3.   Application to future ordinances
   
10-4.   Captions and notes
   
10-5.   Definitions
   
10-6.   Rules of interpretation
   
10-7.   Severability
   
10-8.   Reference to statutes
   
10-9.   Reference to other sections
   
10-10.   Reference to offices
   
10-11.   Errors and omissions
   
10-12.   Official time
   
10-13.   Reasonable time
   
10-14.   Ordinances repealed
   
10-15.   Ordinances unaffected
   
10-16.   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10-17.   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10-18.   Section histories; statutory references
Article 2: Wards and Boundaries
   
10-30.   Ward boundaries
Article 3: Referendum and Initiative
   
10-40.   Referendum petition; form; time for filing
   
10-41.   Initiative petition; form
   
10-42.   Petitions and signatures
   
10-43.   Preservation after approval
   
10-44.   Verification of signatures; who may circulate
   
10-45.   Disqualification of unverified petitions
   
10-46.   Filing copy of proposed petition
   
10-47.   Publication of measures
   
10-48.   Failure to publish not to invalidate election
   
10-49.   Who may sign petitions
   
10-50.   Only substantial compliance required
Article 4: Indemnification
   
10-60.   Indemnification, generally
   
10-61.   Nolo contendere, gross negligence, misconduct
   
10-62.   Indemnification for a successful defense
   
10-63.   Council determination of indemnification
   
10-64.   Advance payment for expenses
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108, 14-109
   Maximum fine levied, see 11 O.S. § 14-111
   Fines over $200 to be set by jury trial, see 11 O.S. § 27-119
Cross-reference:
   For provisions concerning code and ordinance interpretation, see Charter
Sections
8-1 et seq.
ARTICLE 1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
§ 10-1 TITLE OF CODE.
   This code may be cited as the “Guthrie City Code” or other properly
identifying description. When a change or changes have been prepared and
inserted in the code as provided herein below, the words “as amended” may be
added to the citation or title when referring to the code as amended.
§ 10-2 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10-3 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10-4 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code, for the convenience of persons
using the code, and shall have no legal effect.
§ 10-5 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CITY, THIS CITY or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Guthrie, Oklahoma.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Guthrie.
   COUNTY. Logan County, Oklahoma.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of the persons
or officers.
   LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the state constitution and state
statutes, the ordinances of the city, and, when appropriate, any and all rules
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the city.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, such as “Clerk,” “City Clerk,”
“City Attorney,” “Fire Chief,” “Police Chief” and the like they shall mean the
officers, agencies or departments of the city.
   PERSON. Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates and
government agencies, except when a contrary intention plainly appears.
   PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
   STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the state as they now
are or as they may be amended.
   STREET. Street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, highway,
court, place, square, curb or any other public way in the city which is
dedicated and open to public use.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   WEEK. Seven days.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10-6 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance:
   (A)   “And” or “or.” Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the city include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the city include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10-7 SEVERABILITY.
   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed by the Council after this
code goes into effect is invalid, all valid parts which are severable from the
invalid parts remain in effect. If a part of this code or of any ordinance
passed hereinafter is invalid in one or more of its applications, the part
remains in effect in all valid applications which are severable from the
invalid applications.
§ 10-8 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   Reference to the statutes of the state means the statutes as they are now or
as they may be amended, and a reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a certain
year also means the comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 10-9 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10-10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10-11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10-12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the city for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10-13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10-14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed prior to and in effect at the time the code is adopted but not included
in the code are hereby repealed as of the time when the code goes into effect.
Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed or amended by the
adoption of the code.
§ 10-15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10-16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10-17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance of the City
Council, as provided hereinafter.
§ 10-18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 1-402) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39-1 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see 51 O.S.
§§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1990 and subsequently amended, the 1990
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(`90 Code, § 9-15).”
ARTICLE 2: WARDS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 10-30 WARD BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Ward One. Ward One of the city shall comprise all that portion of the
city lying within the following described boundaries:
   Beginning at the center of the Burlington, Northern Santa Fe Railroad right-
of-way and Intersection Point of Oklahoma Avenue in Section 8, Township 16
North, Range 2 West, thence East along the North Half of Oklahoma Avenue to the
center of Capital Street; thence South along the East half of the right-of-way
of Capital Street to the Center of Harrison Avenue, thence East along the North
Half of the right-of-way of Harrison Avenue to the East Half of the right-of-
way boundary of Pine Street; thence South along the East Half of Pine Street to
the Southern city limits boundary lying in the Northwest Quarter of Section 15,
Township 16 North, Range 2 West, thence East Northeast following the City
limits boundary through Section 15, Township 16 North, Range 2 West to the East
Guthrie City limits boundary along Interstate 35, thence North following the
East I-35 Guthrie City limits boundary to the City limits boundary lying in the
Northeast Quarter of Section 3, Township 16 North, Range 2 West, thence West
following the North City limits boundary lying in Sections 3 and 4, both being
Township 16 North, Range 2 West, I.M. to the Northwest Corner of the Northeast
Quarter of Section 4, T16N, R2W, I.M. thence South to the Southwest Corner of
the Northeast Quarter of Section 4, T16N, R2W, I.M.; thence West to the Center
of the Burlington, Northern Santa Fe Railroad right-of-way thence south on
Division to the Point of Beginning.
   (B)   Ward Two. Ward Two of the city shall comprise all that portion of the
city lying within the following described boundaries:
   Beginning at the Intersection Point at the Center of the Burlington,
Northern Santa Fe Railroad right-of-way and the South Half of Oklahoma Avenue
right-of-way; thence East following the South Half of the right-of-way of
Oklahoma Avenue to the center of Capital Avenue; thence following the West Half
of the right-of-way of Capital Avenue South to the South Half of the right-of-
way of Harrison Avenue; thence East following the South Half of the right-of-
way of Harrison Avenue to the Center of the right-of-way of Pine Street; thence
South following the West Half of the right-of-way of Pine Street to the North
Half of the right-of-way of Prairie Grove Road; thence West following the North
Half of the right-of-way of Prairie Grove Road to the East City limits Boundary
lying in Section 28, Township 16 North, Range 2 West; thence South following
said East City limits boundary South to the South right-of-way Line of Roller
Coaster Road; thence East to the City limits boundary lying in the Northeast
Quarter of Section 33, township 16 North, Range 2 West, being the Center of
Interstate 35 right-of-way; thence South following the East City limits
boundary to a point in the middle of the East line of the Northwest Quarter of
Section 9, T15N, R2W, I.M., thence West following the South City limits
boundary to the West line of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 9; thence
North to the Northwest Corner of the Northwest Quarter of Section 9, T15N, R2W,
I.M. ; thence West following the South City limits boundary to the west right-
of-way line of Coltrane; thence South following the East section line of
Section 7, T15N, R2W of the I.M. to the Southeast Corner of said section;
thence West 2,640' following the North Section line to the Northwest Corner of
Section 18, T15N. R2W of the I.M., thence South 2,640' to the center of said
Section 18; thence West 1,627.8' to a point in the East right-of-way line of
the Oklahoma Railway Company; thence Northeasterly 2,672'; following the East
right-of-way line of the Oklahoma Railway Company to the North line of Section
18, T15N, R2W of the I.M.; thence West 125.8' to the West right-of-way line of
the Oklahoma Railway Company; thence Southerly 603.5'; following the right-of-
way line; thence West 1,190' to the West line of said Section 18; thence North
660' to the Southeast Corner of Section 12, T15N, R3W of the I.M.; thence West
1, 320'; thence North 1,320' ; thence East 660'; thence North 1,320'; thence
West 1,980'; thence North 2,640' to the Southeast Corner of the Southwest
Quarter of Section 1, T15N, R2W of the I.M.; thence West 660'; thence North
1,980'; thence West 660'; thence North 990'; thence East 1,320'; thence North
660'; thence East 660'; thence North 330'; thence East 660'; thence South 660';
thence East 330'; thence South 660'; thence East 990' to the Southeast Corner
of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 1; thence North to the Northwest
Corner of Section 31, T16N, R2W of the I.M.; thence East to the North/South
Half Section line in Section 29, T16N, R2W of the I.M.; thence North following
the Half Section line of Section 29 and 20, T16N, R2W of the I.M. to the South
Section Line of Section17, Township 16 North, Range 2 West, I.M.; thence West
along the North half of the right-of-way of Industrial Road to the Center of
the right-of-way of the Burlington northern Santa Fe Railroad; thence North
following the Center of the right-of-way of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe
Railroad to the point of Beginning.
   (C)   Ward Three. Ward Three shall comprise all that portion of the city
lying within the following boundaries:
   Beginning at the Southwest Corner of the Southeast Quarter of Section 12,
Township 16 North, Range 3 West, I.M.; thence North along the East side of the
Half Section Line of said Section 12 to College Avenue, thence East along
College Avenue to 14th Street; thence North along 14th Street to the City
limits boundary; thence East following said North City limits boundary to the
East City limits boundary; thence South following the City limits boundary to
College Avenue; thence East along College Avenue to the East right-of-way line
of 4th Street; thence South along said 4th Street a distance of 150'; thence
East to the City limits boundary lying in the Northeast Quarter of Section 8,
Township 16 North, Range 2 West; thence Northwesterly along the City limits
boundary lying in the Southwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 16 North, Range
2 West; to the Northern City limits boundary lying in the Southwest Quarter of
Section 5, Township 16 North, range 2 West; thence East to the Center of the
Burlington, Northern Santa Fe Railroad right-of-way lying in the Southwest
Quarter of Section 4, Township 16 North, Range 2 West, Indian meridian; thence
East 100'; thence North along the East right-of-way line of US Highway 77 a
distance of 2,850'; thence East 2,220'; thence North 950'; thence West 250';
thence North 200'; thence East 250' to the Northeast Corner of the Northeast
Quarter of Section 4, T16N, R2W of the I.M.; thence South 4,850'; thence West
to the west side of Wentz Street, South along Wentz Street to the North side of
Oklahoma Avenue, thence West to a point in the center of the Burlington
Northern Santa Fe Railroad right-of-way; thence Southwesterly along the said
right-of-way to the intersecting Southline of Section 17, T16N, R2W of the
I.M., thence West to the Southwest Corner of said Section 17; thence North to
the Southeast Corner of Section 7, T16N, R2W of the I.M.; thence West along the
South section line of said Section 7 and Section 12, T16N, R3W of the I.M. to
the point of the beginning.
   Any part of the incorporated City limits of the City of Guthrie being a part
of the following Sections shall be a part of Ward Three.
   Section 6 in Township 16 North, Range 2 West, I.M.; and
   Sections 31, 32 and West Half of 33, all being in Township 15 North, Range 2
West, I.M.; and
   Sections 36, 35, 34,27, 22, 21, 20, 19, 18, 17 and 15, all being in Township
15 North, Range 3 West, I.M.; and
   Sections 2, 11, 12, 13 and 14, all being in Township 15 North, Range 4 West,
I.M.; and
   Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11and 12, all being in Township 16
North, Range 3 West, I.M.; and
   Sections 11, 12, 14, 23, 26 and 35, all being in Township 16 North, Range 4
West, I.M.;
   Sections 11, 13, 14, 24, 25 and 36, Township 16 North, Range 2 West, I.M.;
   Sections 1, 12, 13, 24, 25, 34, 35, 36 and the East Half of 33, Township 15
North, Range 2 West;
   Also, any part of the incorporated City Limits of the City of Guthrie lying
in Section 4, T15N, R2W of the I.M.
(Ord. 3010, passed 1-21-97; Am. Ord. 3109, passed 1-7-03; Am. Ord. 3228, passed
3-20-12)
ARTICLE 3: REFERENDUM AND INITIATIVE
§ 10-40 REFERENDUM PETITION; FORM; TIME FOR FILING.
   The referendum petition shall be substantially as follows:
   Petition for referendum: To the Honorable
                                           , Mayor of the City of Guthrie. We,
the undersigned citizens and legal voters of the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma,
respectfully order that Ordinance No.           , entitle (title of ordinance,
and if the petition is against less than the whole ordinance, then set forth
here the part or parts on which the referendum is sought), passed by the City
Council, shall be referred to the people of the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma for
their approval or rejection at the next general or special election and each
for himself says: I have personally signed this petition; I am a legal voter of
the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma; my residence and post office are correctly
written after my name.
   General provisions: Referendum petitions shall be filed with the City Clerk
not more than 30 days after the final adjournment of the meeting of the Council
which passed the bill on which the referendum is demanded. The question we
herewith submit to our fellow voters is: Shall the following ordinance be
approved?
   (Insert here an exact copy of the title and text of the measure)
Name                                                               Residence/
Post Office or Street and Number
                                                                       City
                                                             
   (Here follow 40 numbered lines for signatures.)
(`91 Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 2914, passed - - )
§ 10-41 INITIATIVE PETITION; FORM.
   The form of initiative petition shall be substantially as follows:
   Initiative petition
   To the Honorable                                            , Mayor of the
City of Guthrie: We the undersigned citizens and legal voters of the City of
Guthrie, Oklahoma, respectfully order that the following proposed ordinance (or
amendment to the City Charter, as the case may be) shall be submitted to the
legal voters of the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma for their approval or rejection
at the next general election or special city election and each for himself
says: I have personally signed this petition; I am a legal voter of the City of
Guthrie, Oklahoma; my residence and post office are correctly written after my
name. The time for filing this petition expires 90 days from (insert date when
petition is initially filed with the Clerk). The question we herewith submit to
our fellow voters is: Shall the following ordinance (or amendment to the city
charter) be approved? (Insert here an exact copy of the title and text of the
measure).
Name                                                               Residence/
Post Office or Street and Number
                                                                       City
                                                             
   (Here follow 40 numbered lines for signatures)
(`91 Code, § 22-2) (Ord. 2914, passed - - )
§ 10-42 PETITIONS AND SIGNATURES.
   Each initiative petition and each referendum petition shall be duplicated
for the securing of signatures, and each sheet for signatures shall be attached
to a copy of the petition. Each copy of the petition and sheets for signatures
are hereinafter termed a pamphlet. On the outer page of each pamphlet shall be
printed the word "Warning" as authorized by 34 O.S. § 3 and underneath this in
ten-point type the words, "It is a felony for anyone to sign an initiative or,
referendum petition with any name other than his own, or knowingly to sign his
name more than once for the measure, or to sign such petition when he is not a
legal voter". A simple statement of the gist of the proposition shall be
printed on the top margin of each signature sheet. Not more than 40 signatures
on one sheet shall be counted. Any signature sheet not in substantial
compliance with this section shall be disqualified by the City Clerk.
(`91 Code, § 22-3) (Ord. 2914, passed - - )
§ 10-43 PRESERVATION AFTER APPROVAL.
   If any measure shall, at the ensuing election, be approved by the people,
then the copies of the petitions, with the sheets of signatures and affidavits,
and a certified copy of the Mayor's proclamation declaring the same to have
been approved by the people, shall be bound together in such form that they may
be conveniently identified and preserved. The City Clerk shall cause every such
measure so approved by the people to be printed with the general laws of the
city.
(`91 Code, § 22-4) (Ord. 2914, passed - - )
§ 10-44 VERIFICATION OF SIGNATURES; WHO MAY CIRCULATE.
   Each sheet of every such petition containing signatures shall a verified on
the back thereof, in substantially the following form, by the person who
circulated the sheet of the petition, by his or her affidavit thereon as a part
thereof. The person circulating such petition shall be a qualified elector of
the city:
State or Oklahoma   )
                 ) ss
County of Logan    )
I,                                            , being first duly sworn, say:
That I am a qualified elector of the City of Guthrie, Oklahoma and that (here
shall be legibly written or typewritten the names of the signers of the sheet),
signed this sheet of the foregoing petition, and each of them signed his name
thereto in my presence; I believe that each has stated his name, post office
address, and residence correctly and that each signer is a legal voter of the
City of Guthrie, Oklahoma. (Signature and post office address of affiant.)
Subscribed and sworn to before me this          day of
                              A.D., 20      . (Signature and title of the
officer before whom oath is made and his post office address.)
(`91 Code, § 22-5) (Ord. 2914, passed - - )
§ 10-45 DISQUALIFICATION OF UNVERIFIED PETITIONS.
   The City Clerk shall disqualify all signatures on any sheet of any petition
which is not verified by the person who circulated the sheet of the petition as
provided in the preceding section, and the Clerk shall notify the City Attorney
of any and all violations of this title of which he has knowledge.
(`91 Code, § 22-6) (Ord. 2914, passed - - )
§ 10-46 FILING COPY OF PROPOSED PETITION.
   When a citizen or citizens desire to circulate a petition initiating a
proposition of any nature, whether to become an ordinance or an amendment to
the Charter, or for the purpose of invoking a referendum upon Council
enactments, such citizen or citizens shall, when such petition is prepared, and
before the same is circulated or signed by electors, file a true and exact copy
of same in the office of the City Clerk and, within 90 days after such filing
of an initiative petition, the signed copies thereof shall be filed with the
City Clerk, but the signed copies of a referendum petition shall be filed with
the City Clerk within 30 days after the passage of the ordinance on which the
referendum is invoked. The electors shall sign their legally registered name,
their address in the city. Any petition not filed in accordance with this
provision shall not be considered.
(`91 Code, § 22-7) (Ord. 2914, passed - - )
§ 10-47 PUBLICATION OF MEASURES.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, not less than five days before any
election held in the city at which any proposed ordinance, part of an
ordinance, or amendment to the Charter is to be submitted to the people of the
city for their approval or rejection, to cause to be published once in a
newspaper of general circulation, a copy of all ballots on initiated and
referred questions, measures, and Charter amendments and an explanation of now
to vote for or against propositions; the publication to be paid for at the
legal rate for other publications, out of any funds of the city appropriated
therefor.
(`91 Code, § 22-8) (Ord. 2914, passed - - )
§ 10-48 FAILURE TO PUBLISH NOT TO INVALIDATE ELECTION.
   The failure to prepare and have published the argument and other matter as
provided by law shall not invalidate the election held on any initiative or
referendum or Charter amendment proposed by the Council, and no election on any
such measure shall be declared or held invalid on the grounds that such
publication was not so prepared or published.
(`91 Code, § 22-9) (Ord. 2914, passed - - )
§ 10-49 WHO MAY SIGN PETITIONS.
   Every person who is a qualified elector of the city may sign a petition for
the referendum or for the initiative for any measure upon which he is legally
entitled to vote.
(`91 Code, § 22-10) (Ord. 2914, passed - - )
§ 10-50 ONLY SUBSTANTIAL COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The procedure prescribed in this article and as set forth in 11 O.S. §§ 15-
101 et seq. entitled "Initiative and Referendum - Municipal Questions" as the
same may be from time to time amended is not mandatory, but if substantially
followed will be sufficient. If the end aimed at can be attained and procedure
shall be sustained, clerical and mere technical errors shall be disregarded.
(`91 Code, § 22-11) (Ord. 2914, passed - - )
ARTICLE 4: INDEMNIFICATION
§ 10-60 INDEMNIFICATION, GENERALLY.
   The City of Guthrie shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is
threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action,
suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative
(other than an action by or in the right of the city) by reason of the fact
that he is or was an officer, employee, or agent of the city, or is or was
serving at the request of the city as a director, employee, agent or member of
a board, committee, or agency, against expenses (including attorney's fees),
judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably
incurred by him in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in
or not opposed to the best interest of the city, and with respect to any
criminal action or proceedings, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct
was unlawful.
(Ord. 3168, passed 11-1-05)
§ 10-61 NOLO CONTENDERE, GROSS NEGLIGENCE, MISCONDUCT. 
   Determination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order,
settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent
shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good
faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to
the best interest of the city, and, with respect to any criminal action or
proceedings had full reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was not
lawful. Provided, however, no indemnification shall be made in respect of any
claim, issue, or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be
liable for gross negligence or misconduct in the performance of his duty to the
city.
(Ord. 3168, passed 11-1-05)
§ 10-62 INDEMNIFICATION FOR A SUCCESSFUL DEFENSE.
   To the extent that an officer, employee or agent of the city has been
successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or
proceedings referred to in this article, or in defense of any claim, issue or
matter therein, he shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorney's
fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith.
(Ord. 3168, passed 11-1-05)
§ 10-63 COUNCIL DETERMINATION OF INDEMNIFICATION.
   Any indemnification under this article shall be made by the city (unless
ordered by court) only as may be authorized in the specific case upon a
determination that the indemnification of the officer, employee or agent is
proper under the circumstances because he has met the applicable standards of
conduct. This determination shall be made:
   (A)   By the Mayor and Councilmen by a majority vote of a quorum consisting
of those members who were not parties to such action, suit or proceedings; or
   (B)   If such a quorum is not attainable, or if it is attainable and a
quorum of disinterested members so directs, then by independent legal counsel
in a written opinion.
(Ord. 3168, passed 11-1-05)
§ 10-64 ADVANCE PAYMENT FOR EXPENSES.
   Expenses incurred in defending a civil or a criminal action, suit or
proceeding may be paid by the city in advance of the final disposition of such
suit, action or proceeding, as authorized by the Mayor and the City Council in
the specific case upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the
officer, employee or agent to repay such amount unless it shall be ultimately
determined that he is entitled to be indemnified by the city as authorized
herein.
(Ord. 3168, passed 11-1-05)
CHAPTER 11: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Article 1: Toilet Facilities
   
11-1.   Definitions
   
11-2.   Owner to provide proper facilities
   
11-3.   Proper disposal of human excrement
   
11-4.   Cleanliness and toilet contents
   
11-5.   Unauthorized facilities; public nuisance
Article 2: Unwholesome Food
   
11-40.   Adulterated or misbranded food
   
11-41.   Examination of food
   
11-42.   Duty of City Attorney
   
11-43.   Definitions
   
11-44.   Samples
   
11-45.   Poisonous preservatives
   
11-46.   Bake houses in cellars prohibited
   
11-47.   Sleeping areas for employees
   
11-48.   Prohibited sales
   
11-49.   Inspection
   
11-50.   Destruction of unwholesome food
   
11-51.   Establishments for sale or consumption
Article 3: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
11-65.   Expectoration on streets
   
11-66.   Throwing medicine on street
Article 4: Uniform Code for Emergency Medical Services
   
11-80.   Definitions
   
11-81.   Medical Director
   
11-82.   Guthrie Emergency Medical Services (GEMS)
   
11-83.   Mandatory centralized call processing
   
11-84.   Mandatory EMS data system and reporting standards
   
11-85.   Insurance requirements
   
11-86.   Ambulance service license required
   
11-87.   Specialized mobile intensive care patients
   
11-88.   Ambulance response time performance required
   
11-89.   Prohibition of refusal to transport
   
11-90.   Procedures for denial, revocation or suspension of a permit
   
11-91.   Violations
   
11-92.   Penalties
Article 5: 911 Emergency System
   
11-95.   Tie-ins prohibited
Article 6: Tobacco and Electronic Cigarettes
   
11-101.   Definitions
   
11-102.   Prohibition of tobacco products, electronic smoking devices, and
vapor products in or on municipally owned property
   
11-103.   (Reserved)
   
11-104.   (Reserved)
   
11-105.   Posting
   
11-106.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: TOILET FACILITIES
§ 11-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY PIT PRIVY. A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as to
conform to the specifications approved by the State Health Departments.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of a capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
(`90 Code, § 11-1)
§ 11-2 OWNER TO PROVIDE PROPER FACILITIES.
   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside, are
employed or congregate within this city shall install, equip and maintain
adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement; namely, a
sanitary water closet or closets, or a sanitary pit privy or privies. The
closets and toilets hereby required shall be of the sanitary water closet type
and connected to the sanitary sewer system when located within 50 feet of a
sanitary sewer system when located within 50 feet of the sewer extensions
proposed for construction with the funds provided by the Housing and Urban
Development Administration, shall have two years from the date of the
completion of the extensions to connect with the sewer extensions, and of the
sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a greater distance from a sanitary
sewer) or to the water closet type emptying into a septic tank system or the
pit privy type provided that a septic tank system or a pit privy may be used in
such cases only if it meets the standards of and is approved by the Health
Department.
(`90 Code, § 11-2)
§ 11-3 PROPER DISPOSAL OF HUMAN EXCREMENT.
   (A)   All human excrement disposed of within this city shall be disposed of
by depositing is in closets and privies of the type hereinabove provided for.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner of property within the city to permit the
disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner or for any person to
dispose of human excrement within the city in any other manner.
(`90 Code, § 11-3)
§ 11-4 CLEANLINESS AND TOILET CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times and the
covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all times when the
privies are not being used.
   (B)   No wash water, kitchen slop or anything other than human excrement and
toilet paper shall be emptied into a privy.
   (C)   No excrement from any person suffering from typhoid fever, dysentery
or other serious bowel disease shall be deposited in any sanitary pit privy or
sanitary water closet or water closet emptying into a septic tank until it is
disinfected in a manner as may be prescribed by the Health Officer.
(`90 Code, § 11-4)
§ 11-5 UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES; PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner
different from that required by this article, and all privies and closets so
constructed, situated or maintained as to endanger the public health, are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and may be dealt with and abated as
such.
   (B)   Any person maintaining any nuisance is guilty of an offense and each
day upon which any nuisance continues is a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 11-5)
ARTICLE 2: UNWHOLESOME FOOD
§ 11-40 ADULTERATED OR MISBRANDED FOOD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain within the city any article
of food or confectionery which is adulterated or misbranded within the meaning
of this article and any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 11-16)
§ 11-41 EXAMINATION OF FOOD.
   The examination of specimens of food or confectionery shall be made by the
Health Officer or under his or her direction if it shall appear from the
examination of any of the specimens that they ate adulterated or misbranded
within the meaning of this article, the Health Officer shall cause a complaint
to be sworn out.
(`90 Code, § 11-17)
§ 11-42 DUTY OF CITY ATTORNEY.
   It shall at all times be the duty of the City Attorney to cause appropriate
proceedings to be commenced and prosecuted in the proper courts without delay
for the enforcement of penalties as in such cases herein provided.
(`90 Code, § 11-18)
§ 11-43 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULTERATION.
      (1)   Confectionery. If it contains terra, alba, barytes, talc, chrome
yellow or other mineral substance or poisonous color or flavor, or other
ingredient deleterious or detrimental to the public health.
      (2)   Food.
         (a)   If any substance has been mixed and placed with it so as to
reduce or lower or injuriously affect its quality or strength;
         (b)   If any substance has been substituted wholly or in part for the
article;
         (c)   If any valuable constituent of the article has been wholly or in
part abstracted;
         (d)   If it be mined, colored, powdered, coated or stained in a manner
whereby an inferiority is concealed; and/or
         (e)   If it consists in whole or in part of a filthy, decomposed or
dead animal or vegetable substance, or any portion of an animal fit for food,
whether manufactured or not, or if it is the product of a diseased animal, or
one that has died otherwise that by slaughter.
(`90 Code, § 11-20)
   FOOD. All articles used for food, drinks, confection or condiments by man or
other animals, whether simple, mixed or compound.
(`90 Code, § 11-19)
   MISBRANDED.
      (1)   All articles of food or articles which enter into the composition
of goods, the package or label of which shall bear any statement, design or
device regarding the article or ingredients or substances contained therein
which shall be false or misleading in any particular, and to any food product
which is falsely branded as to the state, territory, country or place in which
it is manufactured or produced.
      (2)   For the purpose of this article, an article shall be deemed to be
MISBRANDED:
         (a)   If an imitation of, or offered for sale under the distinctive
name of, another article;
         (b)   If it be labeled or branded so as to deceive or mislead the
purchaser, or purport to be a foreign product when not so, or if the contents
of the package as originally put up shall have been removed in whole or in part
and other contents shall have been placed in the package, or if it fails to
bear a statement on the label of the quantity or proportion of any morphine,
opium, cocaine, heroin, alpha or beta eucane, acetanilide or any derivative or
preparation of any of substances contained therein;
         (c)   If in package form and the contents are stated in terms of
weight or measure, they are not plainly and correctly stated on the outside of
the package; and/or
         (d)   All articles shall be labeled, branded or tagged so as to
plainly indicate that they are compounds, imitations or blends and the
“compound,” “imitation” or “blend,” as the case may be, is plainly marked on
the package for which is os offered for sale; provided that the term “blend,”
as used herein, shall be construed to mean a mixture of like substances, not
excluding harmless coloring and flavoring ingredients used for the purpose of
coloring and flavoring only, not injurious to the public health. Nothing in
this article shall be construed to require or compel proprietors or
manufacturers of proprietary foods which contain no unwholesome added
ingredients to disclose their trade formulas, except insofar as the provisions
of this article may require to secure freedom from adulteration or misbranding.
(`90 Code, § 11-21)
   PERSON. Imparts both the singular and the plural, the male and the female as
the case demands, and shall include corporations, companies, societies and
associations. When construing and enforcing the provisions of this article, the
act, omission or failure of any officer, agent or other person acting for or
employed by any corporation, company, society or association, within the scope
of his or her  employment of office, shall in every case be deemed to be the
act, omission or failure of the corporation, company, society or association,
as well as that of the person.
(`90 Code, § 11-23)
§ 11-44 SAMPLES.
   Whosoever offers, exposes or has in his or her possession for sale to
dealers or consumers in the city, any article of food, shall upon application
of the Health Officer or his or her assistant or agent, upon tender of the
value thereto, furnish a sample sufficient for the analysis of the article of
food. Whosoever is convicted of a refusal to sell or give the sample as
provided herein shall be fined for the offense.
(`90 Code, § 11-22)
§ 11-45 POISONOUS PRESERVATIVES.
   Any meat, fish or other food which shall be treated with or shall contain
any of the salts of sulphurous acid or other poisonous preservation or coloring
matter are hereby declared to be unwholesome and any person, firm or
corporation who shall sell or offer to sell, serve or deliver or cause the same
to be done, any meats, fish or any other kind of food in any form therein and
containing any of the salts of sulphurous acid or other poisonous preservative
or coloring matter, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 11-24)
§ 11-46 BAKE HOUSES IN CELLARS PROHIBITED.
   No cellar, basement, room or other place shall be occupied as a bake house
which is less than one- half its height above the level of the street.
(`90 Code, § 11-25)
§ 11-47 SLEEPING AREAS FOR EMPLOYEES.
   The sleeping place for workers and other employees in bake houses and
restaurants shall be separate and distinct from the place used for making
bread, pastry and other articles of food and from the places where foods are
prepared to be served.
(`90 Code, § 11-26)
§ 11-48 PROHIBITED SALES.
   No butcher, grocer, trader or other person shall sell, expose or offer for
sale is any public market, or at any place within the limits of the city, any
unsound, diseased, stale, rotten, fermented, nauseous or unwholesome meat,
poultry, fish, vegetables, fruits or other articles of food or provisions, or
any unwholesome bread, cake or pastry, manufactured is whole or in part from
unwholesome flour or meal.
(`90 Code, § 11-27)
§ 11-49 INSPECTION.
   The Health Officer shall have power to inspect all articles of food or
drinks wherever located that may be sold or offered for sale, and to analyze
samples of the sale upon his or her own motion. Any person violating any of the
requirements or prohibitions of this article shall be guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 11-28)
§ 11-50 DESTRUCTION OF UNWHOLESOME FOOD.
   The Health Officer shall have the authority to destroy any foods, drinks,
meats and fish that he or she finds to be unwholesome and unfit for use.
(`90 Code, § 11-29)
§ 11-51 ESTABLISHMENTS FOR SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall have full power to pass on the sanitary
condition of any place where foods, milk, drinks and meats are offered for sale
or served to the public.
   (B)   Any person, corporation or firm who shall, after having been duly
notified to clean up or place his or her place of business in sanitary
condition, refuse to do so, shall be guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 11-30)
ARTICLE 3: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 11-65 EXPECTORATION ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate upon any street or any
sidewalk in the city or upon the platform any railroad depot in the city or
upon the floors or walls of any railroad depot waiting room, railway
restaurant, post office, public library, City Hall or any other building used
for public purposes in the city.
(`90 Code, § 11-31)
§ 11-66 THROWING MEDICINE ON STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to throw, leave
or deposit or cause to be thrown, left or deposited upon any street, avenue,
alley, sidewalk or in any of the parks or other public places or on any private
property within the city any medicine of any kind or description whatsoever.
(`90 Code, § 11-32)
ARTICLE 4: UNIFORM CODE FOR EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
§ 11-80 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. Any ground, air or water vehicle which is approved by the
Oklahoma Commissioner of Health pursuant to the Oklahoma Emergency Response
Systems Development Act in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by
the Oklahoma State Department of Health (OSDH), and which is designed and
equipped to transport a patient or patients and to provide appropriate on-scene
and enroute patient stabilization and emergency medical care as required.
Vehicles used as AMBULANCES within the Guthrie EMS District (GEMS), as defined
herein, shall meet such standards as may be required by the OSDH for approval,
and shall display evidence of such approval at all times.
   AMBULANCE RESPONSE TIME STANDARD. A standard which creates a fixed
measurement by which to evaluate and ambulance service’s effectiveness.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE. Any person or organization, governmental or private,
which is licensed by the OSDH to provide levels of medical care based on
certification standards promulgated by the OSDH, and operates one or more
ambulances, as defined in this section, for purposes stated herein.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE PROVIDER. Any licensed public or private ambulance service
that agrees to provide emergency and non-emergency medical services and
licensed emergency medical personnel to residents of the GEMS District in
accordance with the terms and conditions of an emergency ambulance services
license or in accordance with a mutual aid agreement, as those terms are
defined in this section.
   EMERGENCY CALL. A request for emergency ambulance service by or for a
patient.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES (EMS). The following pre-hospital and inter-
hospital services:
      (1)   ACCESS AND COORDINATION. The answering and processing of telephone
requests from the public for ambulance or first responder services, and
including EMS dispatching, emergency and routine; the giving of medical pre-
arrival instructions to callers by telephone;
      (2)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONDER SERVICES. Those emergency services,
excluding transportation, which are performed by a Emergency Medical Response
Agency (EMRA) certified by OSDH;
      (3)   MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION. Ambulance services, both emergency and
routine, including patient assessment, transportation, and medical procedures
performed on-scene, enroute, during inter-facility transport, or at an
emergency receiving facility when performed at the request of the receiving
physician.
   GEMS DIRECTOR. Person holding the position of Fire/EMS Chief for the City of
Guthrie, Oklahoma.
   GEMS DISTRICT. The licensed district boundaries currently on file with OSDH
for GEMS.
   GUTHRIE INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT I-1 EMS DISTRICT. The 522 emergency
medical service district, as defined in and having all powers, duties and
privileges provided under the Oklahoma Constitution, Art. X, § 9C, that was
created by vote of the qualified voters of the Guthrie Public School District
on September 21, 1982, is governed by the EMS I-1 Board of Directors, and is
established to provide ambulance services to the Guthrie Public School
District.
   GUTHRIE EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES (GEMS). Guthrie Fire Department/EMS
members who are certified by the OSDH in accordance with the Oklahoma Emergency
Response Systems Development Act and in accordance with rules and regulations
promulgated by the OSDH; are so designated by the Medical Director, to perform
emergency medical services, at the scene of an incident requiring emergency
medical services, including transport, under the direction and control of, and
pursuant to protocols established by the Medical Director.
   MEDICAL DIRECTOR. The licensed physician appointed by the City of Guthrie,
or by contract with the ambulance service provider, to perform the duties and
responsibilities granted and ascribed to the Medical Director herein. The
Medical Director may be an employee of the city in the absence of an ambulance
service agreement, but is otherwise an employee of, or contractor with, the
licensed ambulance service provider so designated by the ambulance service
agreement.
   MEDICAL PROTOCOL. Any diagnosis-specific or problem-oriented written
statement of standard procedure, or algorithm, promulgated by the Medical
Director as the medically appropriate standard of pre-hospital care for a given
clinical condition.
   MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. a written agreement between the holder of an emergency
ambulance service license issued pursuant to this code, and a neighboring
primary provider of emergency medical  service approved by the Medical Director
as to its quality of care and medical accountability, whereby the signing
parties agree to lend emergency aid to one another subject to conditions and
terms specified in the agreement.
   PATIENT. An individual who is ill, sick, injured, wounded, or incapacitated,
and who is in need of, or is at risk of needing, medical care or assessment
during transportation to or from a health care facility.
   PERMIT. Any of the documents required to be obtained from the city pursuant
to this code and as recommended by the Medical Director, as given herein.
      (1)   Ambulance service license—Emergency and routine transport.
Ambulance services responding to emergency calls within the GEMS District shall
be required to obtain an emergency ambulance service license. Ambulance
services responding to requests for routine transport service shall be required
to obtain a routine transport ambulance service license.
      (2)   Personnel certification required. All emergency medical personnel
shall be required to obtain personnel certification, and such certification
shall be valid for a period of two years. Personnel may be certified as
emergency medical responder, emergency medical technician, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, advanced emergency medical technician or paramedic in
accordance with certification standards established by the OSDH/National
Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians.
      (3)   Ambulance vehicle permit required. Every ambulance vehicle operated
by an ambulance service shall, subject to inspection and recommendation by the
Medical Director be issued an ambulance vehicle permit by the city.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
other group or combination acting as a unit.
   PRIMARY PROVIDER OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES. A public or private
ambulance service organization which has been designated by one or more
governmental entities to provide emergency ambulance coverage throughout a
defined geographic area.
   RESPONSE TIME—AMBULANCE. The actual elapsed time between receipt by the 911
dispatch center(s) of the “essential information” needed to initiate dispatch,
and the arrival of a permitted ambulance or mutual aid ambulance (approved by
the Medical Director) at the scene of the incident. For purposes of this
provision, the “essential information” shall include location, callback number,
chief complaint or nature of problem and, if the initial location information
was obtained from 911 data base, confirmation that the patient’s location is
the same as that of the caller, or the patient’s actual location.
   ROUTINE TRANSPORT/TRANSFER CALL. A request for ambulance service by or for a
patient whose apparent condition, at the time the call is received,
presumptively meets the criteria for a non-emergency transport/transfer.
   SPECIAL EVENTS AMBULANCE STANDBY SERVICE. The positioning of an ambulance
and crew at the location of a publicly or privately-sponsored event.
   SYSTEM STANDARD OF CARE. The written body of standards, policies, and
protocols governing all clinical aspects of the EMS system, which is approved
by the city. As used in this context, SYSTEM STANDARD OF CARE is a
comprehensive term including:
      (1)   INPUT STANDARDS includes but is not limited to personnel
certification requirements, in-service training requirements, equipment
specifications, on-board inventory requirements, and other requirements which
the system must fulfill before receipt of a request for service;
      (2)   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS includes but is not limited to priority
dispatching protocols and pre-arrival instructions, medical protocols, standing
orders, response time standards, protocols governing authority for on-scene
control of patient care, and other performance specifications describing how
the system should behave upon receipt of a request for service ice; and
      (3)   OUTCOME STANDARDS includes but is not limited to target survival
rates for certain narrowly defined presenting problems or presumptive
diagnoses, such as witnessed cardiac arrests involving patients whose medical
histories meet defined criteria. OUTCOME STANDARDS are results the system
intends to achieve by meeting its input and performance standards.
   ZONE. Geographic area extending 25 miles outward from the legal boundary of
the GEMS District.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-81 MEDICAL DIRECTOR.
   The Medical Director shall be appointed by the Guthrie City Council; and
shall recommend a system standard of care designed to achieve a state-of-the-
art quality of emergency medical care within the GEMS District; and shall have
those powers and duties granted and ascribed to him in the Medical Director
agreement, plus such additional powers and duties as are granted and ascribed
to him or her herein.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-82 GUTHRIE EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES (GEMS).
   GEMS is hereby authorized and directed as the primary provider of emergency
medical services to take such steps as are necessary to ensure the availability
of both emergency and routine ambulance services within the GEMS District
beginning upon the effective date of this code.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-83 MANDATORY CENTRALIZED CALL PROCESSING.
   (A)   All telephone requests for ambulance services, both emergency and
routine, originating within the GEMS District shall terminate at an 911
dispatch center(s) designated by the City Manager, where a communications
officer shall, determine the patient’s location, and if appropriate, deliver
pre-arrival instructions. The center shall also determine the need for
emergency medical responder service; determine the ambulance service to which
the call shall be allocated; and transfer the required information to that
ambulance service, or directly dispatch the call, if that ambulance service has
so directed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any ambulance service to publish or advertise
a telephone number for the purposes of soliciting requests for emergency
ambulance service, except the emergency number (911) of the 911 dispatch c
enter(s). It shall also be unlawful for any ambulance service to publish or
advertise a telephone number for the purposes of soliciting routine transport
calls, except telephone numbers which terminate at a 911 dispatch center(s).
   (C)   If multiple ambulance services are simultaneously licensed hereunder,
the allocation of emergency calls among the multiple ambulance services shall
be in accordance with primary provider of emergency medical services and then
with “nearest unit” dispatch protocols approved by the Medical Director.
Routine transport calls shall be allocated to primary provider of emergency
medical services and then whose ambulance service is requested by the caller.
   (D)   For any provider receiving centralized dispatch services from the 911
dispatch center(s), the dispatch center(s) shall prepare a quarterly analysis
of the 911 dispatch center(s)’ average cost per run dispatched, using generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and shall bill to each ambulance service
the actual average cost of such dispatches to the ambulance service, and each
ambulance service shall make payment to the control centers within 30 days
after receipt of the billing, as a condition of maintenance of the ambulance
Service’s license in good standing. Failure to pay within 30 days shall result
in the immediate suspension of such license, which suspension shall remain in
effect until full payment is made.
   (E)   During times of disaster or severe EMS system overload, declared by
the GEMS Director or his or her designee, the 911 dispatch center(s) shall at
all times have full authority to direct the positioning, movements, and run
responses of all ambulance units of all ambulance services until such time as
the declaration has been lifted.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-84 MANDATORY EMS DATA SYSTEM AND REPORTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   As a condition of maintaining its license in good standing, each
ambulance service, and every emergency medical response agency, shall comply
with EMS data system and reporting standards as prescribed by the Medical
Director; provided, however, that changes in data collection or reporting
requirements which may reasonably be expected to require costly modification of
existing computer hardware or software shall be approved by GEMS prior to
implementation.
   (B)   Failure to comply with data system and reporting requirements, or to
keep the 911 dispatch center(s) completely informed concerning the location and
status of all ambulance units at all times, or failure to carry out 911
dispatch center(s) directives shall constitute grounds for immediate suspension
or revocation of the ambulance service license.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-85 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each ambulance service shall keep in full force and effect a policy or
policies of public liability and property damage insurance, issued by a
casualty insurance company authorized to do business in the State of Oklahoma,
with coverage provisions insuring the public from any loss or damage that may
arise to any person or property by reason of the operation of the ambulance
service’s ambulance, and providing that amount of recovery shall be in limits
of not less than the following sums:
      (1)   For the damages arising out of bodily injury to or death of one
person in any one accident, not less than $500,000;
      (2)   For damages arising out of bodily injury to or death of two or more
persons in any one accident, not less than $1,000,000;
      (3)   For any injury to or destruction of property in any one accident,
not less than $500,000.
   (B)   Each ambulance service shall keep in full force and effect a general
comprehensive liability and professional liability policy or policies issued by
a casualty insurance company authorized to do business in the State of
Oklahoma, with coverage provisions insuring the public from any loss or damage
that may arise to any person or property by reason of the actions of the
ambulance service or any of its employees, and providing that the amount of
recovery shall be in limits of not less than $3,000,000.
   (C)   Each ambulance service shall furnish, prior to issuance of its
license, an original and duplicate certificates of insurance which shall
indicate the types of insurance, the amount of insurance and the expiration
dates of all policies carried by the ambulance service. Each certificate of
insurance shall name this jurisdiction as an additional named insured, and
shall contain a statement by the insurer issuing the certificate that the
policies of insurance listed thereon will not be cancelled or materially
altered by the said insurer absent 30 days’ written notice received by this
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Cancellation or material alteration of a required insurance policy or
coverage shall automatically revoke the ambulance service’s license, and the
ambulance service shall thereupon cease and desist from further ambulance
service operations.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-86 AMBULANCE SERVICE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may provide ambulance services in response to a request for
emergency ambulance transport originating within the GEMS District without
first obtaining an emergency ambulance service license issued pursuant to the
provisions of this code, except for those uses exempted in §
11-91(B), below.
   (B)   No person may provide routine transport ambulance services in response
to a request for routine transport originating within the GEMS District without
first obtaining a routine transport ambulance service license issued pursuant
to the provisions of this code, except for those uses exempted in §
11-91(B), below.
   (C)   No person may provide special events ambulance standby service within
the GEMS District without first obtaining an emergency ambulance service
license issued pursuant to the provisions of this code.
   (D)   No license shall be issued, and no license application shall be
processed, unless the applicant has paid a license application processing fee
payable to the Quality Assurance Fund in the amount of $500, and no license
shall be continued in good standing unless the holder is current in its
obligations to pay the medical quality assurance fee for the right to engage in
the ambulance business within the GEMS District, as provided for in division
(E), immediately below.
   (E)   Every holder of an emergency ambulance service license, routine
transport ambulance service license, or specialized mobile intensive care
permit, probationary or other, shall, as a condition of maintaining its license
or permit in good standing, pay a medical quality assurance fee of $3 per each
patient transported by the holder from a location within the GEMS District.
Such fee shall be paid to the Quality Assurance Fund of the city, and shall be
paid for all transports made during each calendar month within 30 days after
the end of the month. Beginning the month of January, 1993, such $3 amount
shall be increased annually by the same percentage as the increase, if any, in
the Consumer Price Index over the most recent 12-month period for which
published statistics are then available.
   (F)   No license or permit shall be assignable or transferable by the person
to whom issued except as herein provided.
   (G)   No transfer or assignment of existing licenses or permits shall be
effective absent the recommendation of the GEMS Director and approval of the
Medical Director.
   (H)   Any transfer of shares of stock or interest of any person or ambulance
service so as to cause a change in the directors, officers, shareholders, or
managers of such person or ambulance service shall be deemed a transfer or
assignment, subject to these provisions.
   (I)   Upon approval by the Medical Director of the applicant’s submission,
the city shall issue a probationary emergency ambulance license valid for a
period of six months. Such probationary license shall allow applicant to
respond, from the effective date of the probationary license, to emergency
calls originating with the GEMS District.
   (J)   Each holder of a probationary license shall fully comply with its
proforma system status plan, as approved by the Medical Director, from the
effective date of its probationary license, unless a change in the plan to
correct response time deficiencies is proposed by the holder of the
probationary license, and approved by the Medical Director.
   (K)   During the six-month probationary period, the applicant’s response
time performance and clinical quality of care shall be carefully evaluated by
the Medical Director. If performance is consistently and substantially within
the proforma plans, and in compliance with the requirements of this code, such
probationary emergency ambulance service license shall become a valid emergency
ambulance service license, renewable annually upon continual compliance with
this code.
   (L)   After the probationary period, chronic failure to comply with response
time standards or clinical quality of care requirements or data and reporting
requirements shall be grounds for revocation of the emergency ambulance
service.
   (M)   If any ambulance service’s emergency ambulance service license is
suspended three times within any three-year period for failure to make required
payments under division (E), above, such license shall be automatically
revoked, upon the third event.
   (N)   Any holder of a valid emergency ambulance service license issued
pursuant to this code shall, upon application to the city, be issued a routine
transport ambulance service license to transport non-emergency patients from
locations within the GEMS District, and such license shall be valid so long as
the emergency ambulance service license remains in effect, and shall
automatically expire upon the expiration, suspension, or revocation of the
emergency ambulance service license.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-87 SPECIALIZED MOBILE INTENSIVE CARE PERMITS.
   Any hospital, or ambulance service licensed hereunder, shall be eligible to
apply to the city for a permit to operate a specialized mobile intensive care
unit, which unit shall be used solely for inter-hospital transport of patients
requiring specialized enroute medical monitoring and advanced life support
which exceed the capabilities of the equipment and personnel on board a
paramedic ambulance. Such special permits shall be issued for a period of two
years. Failure by the holder of such permit to limit the vehicle to inter-
hospital transports of the types of patients specified within the permit shall
constitute grounds for revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-88 AMBULANCE RESPONSE TIME PERFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every ambulance service provider, as a condition of the emergency
ambulance service license, shall employ sufficient certified personnel, acquire
sufficient equipment, and manage its resources as necessary to achieve response
time standards on all emergency calls and routine transport calls originating
within the GEMS District and received by the 911 dispatch center(s).
   (B)   In the event of an onset of such inclement weather or other disaster
that the Medical Director or his or her designee, in his or her sole
discretion, believes that the threat to a GEMS District patient care presented
by complying with response time standards outweighs the threat to such patient
care from a delayed response, the Medical Director or his or her designee may
declare an emergency, thus suspending these response time requirements until
the declaration is lifted. During such periods, all ambulance service providers
shall use best efforts to provide maximum safe coverage throughout the GEMS
District. Runs made to calls originating during a period in which an emergency
has been declared in accordance with this section shall be excluded from
response time calculations until the declaration has been lifted. An emergency
will be declared only in times of unusual and extremely hazardous driving
conditions, such as ice storms, freezing drizzle, extensive flooding, thick fog
or similarly dangerous or impassable road conditions.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-89 PROHIBITION OF REFUSAL TO TRANSPORT.
   It shall be a violation of this code for any ambulance service to fail to
respond to a call or to transport or to render emergency medical patient
assessment and treatment, as appropriate, or to otherwise refuse or fail to
provide any ambulance services originating within the GEMS District because of
the patient’s perceived, demonstrated or stated inability to pay for such
services, or because of the location of the patient within the GEMS District or
because of the unavailable status or the location of any ambulance unit at the
time of the request. Chronic violation of this provision, as determined by the
Medical Director, shall be grounds to revoke the emergency ambulance service
license.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-90 PROCEDURES FOR DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF A PERMIT.
   For any proposed denial, suspension or revocation of a permit of either a
permitted provider or a certified EMS personnel operating within the GEMS
District, the following standards, which shall not be less than those standards
contained in the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. 11112,
or less than any standards contained in applicable Oklahoma Statutes or
applicable Oklahoma case law, shall apply.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-91 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to commit any of
the following acts:
      (1)   To allow any person to work as an ambulance driver, attendant or
dispatcher without a current valid certification issued pursuant to this code;
      (2)   To use, or cause to be used, an ambulance service other than an
ambulance service holding a valid license issued pursuant to this code, except
for those services described in division (B), below;
      (3)   For any person, firm or organization to respond to emergency calls
originating within the GEMS District, other than an ambulance service which is
a holder of a valid emergency ambulance service license issued pursuant to this
code;
      (4)   For any person, firm or organization to respond to routine
transport calls originating within the GEMS District, other than an ambulance
service which is a holder of a valid routine transport ambulance service
license issued pursuant to this code;
      (5)   To knowingly give false information to induce the dispatch of an
ambulance, first responder unit, or helicopter rescue unit.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this code, and no emergency or routine
transport license shall be required if the vehicle or ambulance is:
      (1)   A privately owned vehicle not used in the business of transporting
patients who are sick, injured, wounded, incapacitated or helpless;
      (2)   A vehicle rendering services as an ambulance in the event of a
major catastrophe or emergency when ambulances with permits based in the
locality of the catastrophe or emergency are incapacitated or insufficient in
number to render the services needed;
      (3)   An ambulance owned or operated by, or under contract with, the
federal or state government;
      (4)   An ambulance transporting a patient to a location within the GEMS
District, which transport originated from a point outside the GEMS District;
      (5)   An ambulance responding to a call pursuant to a mutual aid
agreement with the holder of a valid emergency ambulance service license issued
pursuant to this code;
      (6)   A vehicle engaged in a routine transport call to transport a
patient from a hospital, nursing home, or free-standing dialysis center located
within the GEMS District to any unincorporated area;
      (7)   A vehicle engaged in a routine transport call to transport a
patient from a hospital, nursing home, or free-standing dialysis center located
within the GEMS District to any point outside the zone;
      (8)   A vehicle engaged in the interstate transport of a patient.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
§ 11-92 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this code
shall be punished for a Class B offense as set forth in §
12-34.
   (B)   Each day that any violation of the provisions of this code is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3286, passed 3-15-16)
ARTICLE 5: 911 EMERGENCY SYSTEM
§ 11-95 TIE-INS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to program a burglar alarm automatic
dialing device to any telephone line which, when activated, dials the digits
911.
   (B)   Alarm users will be given a phone number to be programed into their
system which goes directly to the police service communication center. It is
unlawful for an alarm user to fail to disconnect or reprogram an automatic tape
dialing device which is programed to dial the digits 911.
(`90 Code, § 11-40) (Ord. 2860, passed 2-21-90)
ARTICLE 6: TOBACCO AND ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES
§ 11-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. An electronic and/or battery-operated device, the
use of which may resemble smoking that can be used to deliver an inhaled dose
of nicotine or other substances. ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE includes any such
device, whether manufactured, distributed,  marketed or sold as an electronic
cigarette, an electronic cigar, an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an
electronic hookah, vape device, electronic transfer device, or any other
product name or descriptor.
   MUNICIPALLY OWNED PROPERTY. All buildings, indoor areas, and outdoor areas
including but not limited to recreational areas, and other property or portions
thereof, owned, leased or operated by the City of Guthrie, including but not
limited to vehicles and equipment owned by the municipality.
   OUTDOOR AREA. Any covered area, partially covered area or area open to the
sky that is on a property owned by the city.
   RECREATIONAL AREA. Any area that is owned, controlled or used by the city
and open to the general public for recreational purposes, regardless of any fee
or age requirement. The term RECREATIONAL AREA includes but is not limited to
parks, picnic areas, playgrounds, sports fields, golf courses, walking paths,
gardens, hiking trails, bike paths, riding trails, swimming pools, roller- and
ice-skating rinks, beaches surrounding lakes and skateboard parks.
   SMOKING. The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or
other lighted smoking device.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any substance containing tobacco leaf or nicotine derived
from the tobacco leaf, including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe
tobacco, hookah tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco, snus, bidis,
vape or e-liquids, or any other preparation of tobacco; and any product or
formulation of matter containing biologically active amounts of nicotine that
is manufactured, sold, offered for sale, or otherwise distributed with the
expectation that the product or matter will be introduced into the human body.
TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include any cessation product specifically approved by
the United States Food and Drug Administration for use in treating nicotine or
tobacco dependence.
(Ord. 3252, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3334, passed 6-2-20)
§ 11-102 PROHIBITION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES, AND VAPOR
PRODUCTS IN OR ON MUNICIPALLY OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prohibitions shall apply to all persons at all times.
   (B)   The possession and/or use of lighted tobacco in any form is a public
nuisance and dangerous to public health and is hereby prohibited in all places
in which smoking tobacco products is prohibited by Oklahoma State Law.
   (C)   All municipally owned properties, including but not limited to
vehicles, indoor and outdoor areas, owned, leased, or operated by the City of
Guthrie, shall be entirely tobacco free from use of all forms of tobacco
products and electronic smoking devices. Public sidewalks and streets are
excluded from this provision, but smoking is not allowed within 15 feet of
exterior door or intake of a municipal property.
   (D)   All indoor and outdoor recreational areas owned or operated by the
city shall be entirely tobacco free to include all forms of tobacco products
and electronic smoking devices.
   (E)   Public airport hangar areas.
(Ord. 3252, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3334, passed 6-2-20)
§ 11-103 (RESERVED).
§ 11-104 (RESERVED).
§ 11-105 POSTING.
   (A)   The person who owns or operates a place where smoking or tobacco use
is prohibited by state law or city ordinance shall be responsible for posting a
sign or decal, at least four inches by two inches in size, at each entrance to
the building indicating that the place is smoke-free or tobacco-free; and/or a
weather resistant sign of at least 15 inches by 15 inches or 12 inches by 18
inches with a minimum of one inch lettering at the entrance to outdoor areas.
   (B)   Responsibility for posting signs or decals shall be as follows:
      (1)   In privately owned facilities, the owner or lessee, if a lessee is
in possession of the facilities, shall be responsible;
      (2)   In corporately owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of
the facility involved shall be responsible; and
      (3)   In municipally owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of
the facility shall be responsible.
(Ord. 3252, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3334, passed 6-2-20)
§ 11-106 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of Articles 1 and 2, is guilty
of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
this code of ordinances. In addition thereto, the person may be enjoined froze
continuing the violations. Each day upon which a violation continues
constitutes a separate violation. (`90 Code, § 11-33) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or partnership who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction,
shall be fined in any amount not more than $100, including costs. Each day upon
which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. (`90 Code, §
11-41) (Ord. 2800, passed 2-2-90)
   (C)   Any violation of any provision contained in Article 6 is an offense
against the city and upon conviction of any such offense the violator shall be
punished by fine of up to $200 plus court costs.
(Ord. 3252, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 3334, passed 6-2-20)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
CHAPTER 12: MUNICIPAL COURT
Article 1: Creation, Organization and Procedure
   
12-1.   Creation
   
12-2.   Definitions
   
12-3.   Jurisdiction
   
12-4.   Judge; appointment and qualifications
   
12-5.   Term of Judge
   
12-6.   Alternate judge
   
12-7.   Acting Judge
   
12-8.   Judges; how appointed
   
12-9.   Compensation
   
12-10.   Removal of Judge
   
12-11.   Vacancies
   
12-12.   Change of venue; disqualification
   
12-13.   Chief of Police
   
12-14.   Clerk
   
12-15.   City Attorney
   
12-16.   Clerk’s bond
   
12-17.   Rules
   
12-18.   Contempt of Court
   
12-19.   Complaints
   
12-20.   Traffic violations
   
12-21.   Summons
   
12-22.   Warrant of arrest
   
12-23.   Bail
   
12-24.   Arraignment; pleadings
   
12-25.   Postponement
   
12-26.   Defendant’s presence
   
12-27.   Procedure
   
12-28.   Judgement
   
12-29.   Working off fines
   
12-30.   Witnesses
   
12-31.   Judgement rendered
   
12-32.   Acquittal
   
12-33.   Suspension and deferment
   
12-34.   Fine and cost
ARTICLE 1: CREATION, ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
§ 12-1 CREATION.
   This article shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Court of the city, as put into operation by resolution duly passed on January
1, 1969, and filed in accordance with law, as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 27-101
and 27-102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this article
and the provisions of any other ordinance of this city, the provisions of this
article shall control.
(`90 Code, § 12-1)
§ 12-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
   CLERK. The City Clerk, including any deputy or member of the office staff of
the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk’s Office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the city.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of Guthrie.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court, aforesaid, including any Acting
Judge or Acting Judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and
this article.
   JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The district court judicial district of the state,
wherein the government of this municipality is situated.
   MUNICIPALITY or THIS MUNICIPALITY. The City of Guthrie, Oklahoma.
(`90 Code, § 12-2)
§ 12-3 JURISDICTION.
   The Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the municipality is
charged, including any prosecutions transferred to the Court in accordance with
applicable law.
(11 O.S. § 27-103) (`90 Code, § 12-3)
§ 12-4 JUDGE; APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   There shall be one Judge of the Court. The Judge must be duly licensed to
practice law in the state. He or she may engage in the practice of law in other
courts, but he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent with his or her
duties as Judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected
with cases within the jurisdiction of the Court, pending therein or which might
become the subject of proceedings therein. He or she must be a resident of the
county. If no attorney licensed to practice law in the state resides in the
county, who is at the time of appointment willing to accept the appointment as
Judge, the Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint any
suitable and proper person as Judge to act until the appointment and
qualification as the Judge of an attorney licensed to practice law in the
state. He or she may serve as judge of other municipal courts, if the service
may be accomplished consistently with his or her duties as the Judge of the
Court, with the consent of the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 12-4)
§ 12-5 TERM OF JUDGE.
   The official term of the Judge shall be two years, expiring on the first
Monday in May in each odd- numbered year. Each Judge, unless sooner removed for
proper cause, shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified, provided that the Judge of the Municipal Court existing in the
municipality at the effective date of this article shall act as Judge of the
Court herein provided for until the Judge is appointed and qualified under the
term of this chapter.
(`90 Code, § 12-5)
§ 12-6 ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   There shall be appointed for each Judge of the Court the Alternate
Judge, possessed of the same qualifications as the Judge. His or her
appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
Judge.
   (B)   He or she shall sit as Acting Judge of the Court in any case if the
Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court;
      (2)   Unable to act as Judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as Judge in the case.
(`90 Code, § 12-6)
§ 12-7 ACTING JUDGE.
   If, at any time, there is no Judge or Alternate Judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as Judge, the Mayor shall appoint some person
possessing the qualifications required by this article for the Judge, who shall
preside, as Acting Judge, over the Court in the disposition of pending matters
until the time as a Judge or Alternate Judge shall be available.
(`90 Code, § 12-7)
§ 12-8 JUDGES; HOW APPOINTED.
   Judges and Alternate Judges shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent
of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to
the governing body at the next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to
the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon
at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The governing body may decide upon the
proposed appointment by a majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure
of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a
later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body, unless the Mayor, in
writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
(`90 Code, § 12-8)
§ 12-9 COMPENSATION.
   A Judge, other than an Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge, shall receive a
salary monthly, as shall be determined from time to time by the City Council,
and paid in the same manner as the salaries of other officers of the
municipality. An Alternate Judge or Acting Judge shall be paid the sum as set
by Council for each day devoted to the performance of his or her duties, except
that, for any month, the total payments so calculated shall not exceed the
salary of the Judge in whose stead he or she sits. An Alternate or Acting Judge
who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount specified in this article
as the salary of the Judge in whose stead he or she sits.
(`90 Code, § 12-9)
§ 12-10 REMOVAL OF JUDGE.
   (A)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office, by the governing body,
for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of the state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by the Mayor or 25 or more qualified electors of the municipality. In the
latter event, verification may be executed by one or more of the petitioners.
The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter, and shall cause
notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served personally
upon the Judge at least ten days before the hearing. At the hearing, the Judge
shall be entitled to representation by counsel, to present testimony and to
cross-examine the witnesses against him or her and to have all evidence against
him or her presented in open hearing.
   (B)   (1)   So far as they can be made applicable, the provisions of the
State Administrative Procedure Act governing individual proceedings, 75 O.S. §§
309 through 317, and any amendments or additions thereto in effect at the time
of the hearing, shall govern removal proceedings hereunder.
      (2)   Judgement of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes,
by a majority of all members of the governing body, in favor of the removal.
(`90 Code, § 12-10)
§ 12-11 VACANCIES.
   (A)   A vacancy in the Office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      (1)   Dies;
      (2)   Resigns;
      (3)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      (4)   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally in
judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the Office of Judge, the Mayor,
with the consent of the governing body, shall appoint a successor to complete
the unexpired term, upon the same procedure as an original appointment is made.
(`90 Code, § 12-11)
§ 12-12 CHANGE OF VENUE; DISQUALIFICATION.
   In prosecutions before the Court, no change of venue shall be allowed, but
the Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his or her
disqualification or may be disqualified from sitting under the terms,
conditions and procedure provided by laws for Courts of record. If the Judge is
disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an Alternate or Acting Judge
appointed as provided in this article.
(`90 Code, § 12-12)
§ 12-13 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All writs or processes of the Court shall be directed, in his or her
official title, to the Chief of Police of the municipality, who shall be the
principal officer of the Court.
(`90 Code, § 12-13)
§ 12-14 CLERK.
   The Clerk, or a deputy designated by him or her, shall be the Clerk of the
Court. He or she shall assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of the
Court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. He or she shall
administer oaths required in proceedings before the Court. He or she shall
enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the Court. He
or she shall perform other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of the
Court as the Court Judge shall direct. He or she shall receive and give receipt
for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of money payable to the Court. He or
she shall pay to the City Treasurer, on the first and fifteenth days of each
month, all money so received by him or her, except special deposits or fees as
shall be received to be disbursed by him or her for special purposes. All money
paid to the Treasurer shall be placed in the general fund of the municipality
or in another fund as the governing body may direct, and it shall be used in
the operation of the municipal government in accordance with budgetary
arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed.
(11 O.S. § 27-109) (`90 Code, § 12-14)
§ 12-15 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Attorney for the municipality, or his or her duly designated
assistant, shall be the prosecuting officer of the Court. He or she shall
prosecute all alleged violations of the city.
   (B)   He or she shall be authorized, in his or her discretion, to prosecute
and resist appeals, proceedings in error and review from the Court to any other
court of the state, and to represent the municipality in all proceedings
arising out of matters in the Court.
(11 O.S. § 27-108) (`90 Code, § 12-15)
§ 12-16 CLERK’S BOND.
   (A)   The Clerk of the Court shall give bond, in the form provided by 11
O.S. § 27-111, in the sum of $1,000.
   (B)   When executed, the bond shall be submitted to the governing body for
approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the City Clerk and retained in
the municipal archives.
(`90 Code, § 12-16)
§ 12-17 RULES.
   The Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and
with the ordinances of the municipality, for the proper conduct of the business
of the Court.
(11 O.S. § 27-114) (`90 Code, § 12-17)
§ 12-18 CONTEMPT OF COURT.
   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgements made by the Judge or by the
Court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine for contempt committed as to
him or her while holding Court, or committed against process issued by him or
her, in the same manner and to the same extent as the district courts of the
state.
(11 O.S. § 27-125) (`90 Code, § 12-18)
§ 12-19 COMPLAINTS.
   All prosecutions for violation of ordinance of the municipality shall be
styled “The City of Guthrie, Oklahoma v.                   .” Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a
written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making the complaint,
and setting forth concisely the offense charged.
(`90 Code, § 12-19)
§ 12-20 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If a police officer observes facts which he or she believes constitute
a violation of the traffic ordinances of the municipality committed by a
resident thereof, in lieu of arresting the person, he or she may take his or
her name, address, operator’s license number, the registered license number of
the motor vehicle involved and any other pertinent and necessary information,
and may issue to him or her, in writing in form prescribed by the City Manager,
or his or her duly designated delegate, a traffic citation embracing the above
information, and further, stating the traffic violation alleged to have
occurred, and notifying him or her to answer to the charge against him or her
in Court at a time, not later than five days thereafter, specified in the
citation. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator, endorsed on the citation to answer as specified, shall release the
person from custody. If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer
as prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this article.
   (B)   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident of the
municipality, the police shall take him or her into custody under arrest. The
arrested person either:
      (1)   Shall be taken immediately before the Judge for further proceedings
according to law; or
      (2)   Shall have bail fixed for his or her release in accordance with the
provisions of this article.
   (C)   Upon providing the bail as fixed, and upon giving his or her written
promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in the preceding subsection
of this article, he or she shall be released from custody.
   (D)   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under an
ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall place on
the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in division
(A) above, with the variation as the circumstances require. The operator of the
vehicle shall be under the same obligation to the citation as if it had been
issued to him or her personally under division (A) above.
(`90 Code, § 12-20)
§ 12-21 SUMMONS.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of an ordinance, the
Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless the
defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and has
given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person charged,
specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known, stating the
offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her notice to answer
the charge in the Court on a day certain, Sundays and holidays excepted, after
the summons is served upon him or her containing a provision for the official
return of the summons, and including other pertinent information as may be
necessary.
   (B)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as provided
by this article.
(`90 Code, § 12-21)
§ 12-22 WARRANT OF ARREST.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the municipality,
upon the filing of a complaint approved by endorsement by the attorney of the
municipality or by the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in the
form set by Council.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the aforesaid Chief of Police personally, or
through a duly constituted member of the police force of the municipality or
through any other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute the warrant
as promptly as possible.
(`90 Code, § 12-22)
§ 12-23 BAIL.
   (A)   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation
or summons, or at any other time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his or her
appearance in an amount and upon condition fixed by the Judge, who shall
prescribe appropriate rules of Court for the receipt for the bail.
   (B)   In case of arrest made at night or under conditions of emergency or
when the Judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the Chief of Police
or his or her designated representative to accept a temporary cash bond, not
less than $10 nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance
for the offense charged.
   (C)   The City Judge may, as part of the rules of Court for accepting bail,
prescribe a bond schedule listing bonds to be deposited for each offense or
classify offenses and list bonds for each classification.
(`90 Code, § 12-23) (Ord. 2710, passed 9-7-82)
§ 12-24 ARRAIGNMENT; PLEADING.
   (A)   Upon making his or her appearance before the Court, the defendant
shall be arraigned. The Judge or the City Attorney shall read the complaint to
the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights and of the
consequences of conviction, and ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty
or not guilty.
(11 O.S. § 27-1161)
   (B)   If the defendant pleads guilty, the Court may proceed to judgement and
sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is
not guilty and the case is not for jury trial, the Court may proceed to try the
case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(`90 Code, § 12-24)
§ 12-25 POSTPONEMENT.
   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may obtain a
reasonable postponement thereof.
(`90 Code, § 12-25)
§ 12-26 DEFENDANT’S PRESENCE.
   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
(`90 Code, § 12-26)
§ 12-27 PROCEDURE.
   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this article, or by the statutes
relating to the Municipal Court, or by rules duly promulgated by the State
Supreme Court, the procedure applicable in trials of misdemeanors in the
district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be made effective.
(`90 Code, § 12-27)
§ 12-28 JUDGMENT.
   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the Court must
render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits prescribed by the
applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
(`90 Code, § 12-28)
§ 12-29 WORKING OFF FINES.
   Any person fined for violation of a municipal ordinance, who is financially
able, but refuses or neglects to pay the fine or cost, may be compelled to
satisfy the amount owed by working on the streets, alleys, avenues, areas and
public grounds of the municipality, under the direction of the Street
Superintendent or other proper officer at a rate of $5 per day for useful
labor, until the fine or cost is satisfied.
(`90 Code, § 12-29) (Ord. 2710, passed 9-7-82)
§ 12-30 WITNESSES.
   (A)   Witnesses in any proceeding in the Court, other than police officers
or peace officers, shall be entitled to $3 per each day of attendance, plus
$.10 for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in going to and returning
from the place of attendance, if their residence is outside the limits of the
municipality. However, no witness shall receive fees or mileage in more than
one case for the same period of time or the same trial.
   (B)   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the Clerk
a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for each
witness to be summoned, but the deposit shall not be required from an indigent
defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
      (1)   The names of no more than three witnesses;
      (2)   That the defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
      (3)   That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
      (4)   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her
proper defense. The fees of the witnesses shall be paid by the municipality.
(`90 Code, § 12-30)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to determine by ordinance the fees and mileage that shall be paid
to jurors and witnesses, see 11 O.S. § 27-122.2
§ 12-31 JUDGMENT.
   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the Judge
who shall cause it to be entered in his or her docket.
(`90 Code, § 12-31)
§ 12-32 ACQUITTAL.
   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained for any
other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
(`90 Code, § 12-32)
§ 12-33 SUSPENSION AND DEFERMENT.
   After conviction and sentence, the Judge may suspend sentence, in accordance
with the provisions of and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by
11 O.S. §§ 27-123 and 27-124, or upon a verdict or plea of guilty, but before a
judgment of guilt, the Judge may, without entering judgment and with the
consent of the defendant, defer further proceeding, and place the defendant on
probation term, which shall not exceed six months. The defendant shall be
discharged without a judgment of guilt and the verdict or plea of guilty shall
be expunged and the charge dismissed with prejudice to further action. The
dismissal can be with or without cost being charged to the defendant. Upon a
violation of any Court imposed condition of probation, the Court may enter a
judgment of guilt and proceed to impose sentence.
(`90 Code, § 12-33) (Ord. 2710, passed 9-7-82)
§ 12-34 FINES AND COSTS.
   (A)   (1)   The fine for petit larceny shall be as set forth in division (B)
(1) below and the court may tax cost to the defendant of up to $40.
      (2)   The fine for reckless driving shall be as set forth in division (B)
(1) below and the court may tax cost to the defendant up to $40.
      (3)   The fine for any zoning violation or flood plain violation shall be
$200 and the court may tax cost to the defendant up to $40.
   (B)   (1)   The following fines and costs shall be established for the city,
to be enforced through the Municipal Court, to-wit:
Accumulation of material in yard        $200
Assault and battery                     $500
Destruction of property                 $100
Disorderly conduct                      $200
Disturbing the peace                    $200
Dog must be licensed                    $100
Animal running at large, 1st offense    $150
Animal running at large, 2nd offense    $250
Animal cruelty                          $500
Exotic and vicious animals              $500
Discharging firearm in the city limits  $100
High grass and weeds                    $200
Illegal entry                           $300
Outraging public decency                $200
Petit larceny                           $300
Possession or control of exotic animals $500
Public intoxication                     $200
Under 21 in poss of non-intox bev       $100
Resisting arrest                        $300
Transport open container                $200
Unnecessary noise prohibited            $200
 
      (2)   If a deferred sentence is imposed, administrative fee of $100 may
be imposed as cost in the case.
      (3)   If the court issues an arrest warrant for the appearance of a
defendant subsequent to the court having granted the defendant a continuance,
stay, postponement, deferment, or suspension, the court at the time of issuance
of the warrant shall assess cost of $100 for issuance of the warrant; provided
that for a good cause the court may set aside the cost of the issuance of the
warrant; provided further that this section shall apply only to arrest warrants
issued by the court after the defendant has pled guilty or has been adjudged
guilty or has failed to appear for court; provided that for a good cause the
court may set aside the cost of the issuance of the warrant.
       (4)   Fines for any offense not specifically listed in this section
shall correspond with the fine reflected in the current corresponding Title 47,
Motor Vehicles, of the Oklahoma Statutes, as adopted by municipal ordinance.
The fines, however, shall be a minimum of $100 and not to exceed $500 plus all
costs and fees, unless state statute requires otherwise. Bond for any offense
not specifically listed above but for which reference may be made to this
section for penalty and cost shall be $200 plus all costs and fees.
         (a)   Cost to defer: $100.
         (b)   Warrant fee: $100.
         (c)   Administrative fee for vehicle impounds: $100.
      (5)   If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the court shall
assess court costs to the defendant in a sum of not to exceed $30, plus all
fees imposed by the State of Oklahoma, together with any collection fee or
other fees which may be charged, all of which the defendant shall pay, in
addition to any fine that may be imposed.
      (6)   A municipal court technology fee shall be and is hereby established
in the amount of $25. The fee shall be in addition to and not in substitution
for any and all fines, costs, fees and penalties otherwise provided for by law
for the offense and assessed on every citation disposed in the municipal court,
except those that are voided, declined for prosecution, dismissed without
costs, or the defendant is acquitted. The revenue generated by this fee shall
be used solely and exclusively for technological maintenance and improvements
for the city.
      (7)   In addition, regarding any such fines, costs or fees which exceed
the sum of $50 and which remain unpaid by any individual who has filed a state
income tax return, the clerk of the court may file a claim with the Oklahoma
Tax Commission requesting that the amount owed to the city be deducted from any
state income tax refund due to that individual, all in compliance with the
provisions of 68 O.S. §§ 205.2 et seq.
(`90 Code, § 12-34) (Ord. 2823, passed 8-4-87; Am. Ord. 3073, passed 11-7-00;
Am. Ord. 3080, passed 7-17-01; Am. Ord. 3112, passed 4-1-03; Am. Ord. 3126,
passed 11-18-03; Am. Ord. 3137, passed 5-4-04; Am. Ord. 3187, passed 10-2-07;
Am. Ord. 3262, passed 9-16-14; Am. Ord. 3268, passed 3-3-15; Am. Ord. 3278,
passed 2-2-16; Am. Ord. 3288, passed 5-3-16; Am. Ord. 3309, passed 8-1-17)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic violations, see §
12-20
CHAPTER 13: NUISANCES
Article 1: General Provisions
   
13-1.   Nuisances defined
   
13-2.   Certain nuisances; general
   
13-3.   Responsible persons
   
13-4.   Time
   
13-5.   Power of city
   
13-6.   Remedies against public nuisances
   
13-7.   Remedies against private nuisances
   
13-8.   Summary abatement
   
13-9.   Abatement by suit
   
13-10.   Violations
Article 2: Accumulation of Material; Trash
   
13-20.   Definitions
   
13-21.   Exceptions
   
13-22.   Nuisance declared
   
13-23.   Removal of trash required
   
13-24.   Notice and order to remove trash
   
13-25.   Consent to city abatement of nuisance or hearing re trash removal
   
13-26.   Appeals from orders of City Manager; hearing
   
13-27.   Abatement by city - generally
   
13-28.   Collection of city’s costs
Article 3: Weeds and Noxious Plants
   
13-30.   Certain nuisances defined - weeds, noxious plants and thickets
   
13-31.   Nuisance declared
   
13-32.   Removal required
   
13-33.   Notice and order to cut, remove or destroy
   
13-34.   Consent to city abatement or hearing re clearing of weeds, noxious
plants or thickets
   
13-35.   Appeals from orders of City Manager; hearing
   
13-36.   Abatement by city - generally
   
13-37.   Collection of city’s costs
   
13-38.   Applicability
Article 4: Abandoned or Wrecked Vehicles
   
13-40.   Certain nuisances defined - abandoned or wrecked vehicles
   
13-41.   Prohibited; nuisance declared
   
13-42.   Notice to remove
   
13-43.   Responsibility for removal
   
13-44.   Consent to city abatement or hearing re abandoned or wrecked vehicles
   
13-45.   Appeals from orders of City Manager; hearing
   
13-46.   Abatement by city - generally
   
13-47.   Collection of city’s costs
Article 5: Maintenance of Residential and Commercial Premises
   
13-50.   Certain nuisances defined - maintenance of residential and commercial
premises
   
13-51.   Acceptable exterior standards for maintenance
   
13-52.   Responsibility for maintenance
   
13-53.   Nuisance declared
   
13-54.   Notice to correct
   
13-55.   Responsibility for correction
   
13-56.   Consent to city abatement or hearing re property maintenance
   
13-57.   Appeals from orders of City Manager; hearing
   
13-58.   Abatement by city
   
13-59.   Collection of city’s costs
Article 6: Unoccupied, Dilapidated and Dangerous Structures
   
13-60.   Certain nuisances defined - unoccupied, dilapidated and dangerous
structures
   
13-61.   Acceptable exterior standards for unoccupied structures
   
13-62.   Authorization of entry
   
13-63.   Responsibility for maintenance
   
13-64.   Nuisance declared
   
13-65.   Notice to correct; responsibility for correction
   
13-66.   Placarding for dilapidated structures
   
13-67.   Consent to city abatement or hearing re unoccupied structures
   
13-68.   Appeals from orders of City Manager; hearing
   
13-69.   Abatement by city
   
13-70.   Demolition or removal
   
13-71.   Collection of city’s costs
Article 7: Graffiti
   
13-80.   Definitions
   
13-81.   Purpose and intent
   
13-82.   Declaration of public nuisance
   
13-83.   Application prohibited
   
13-84.   Removal from private property
   
13-85.   Prohibitions on spray paint containers and broad-tipped indelible
markers
   
13-86.   Abatement of graffiti
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 13-1 NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, owner, lessee or other to create or
maintain a nuisance within the city or to permit a nuisance to remain on
premises under his or her control within the city.
   (B)   A NUISANCE is unlawfully doing an act, omitting to perform a duty or
any thing or condition, which either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; and/or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   (C)   A PUBLIC NUISANCE is one which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   (D)   Every nuisance not included in division (C) above is a private
nuisance.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-2 CERTAIN NUISANCES; GENERAL.
   (A)   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      (2)   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
of ordinary sensibilities or the keeping of an animal which makes the noises;
      (3)   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      (4)   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on the street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinances;
      (5)   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (6)   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      (7)   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare;
      (8)   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to
fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   The above enumeration of certain public nuisances shall be cumulative
and not limit other provisions of law or ordinance defining public or private
nuisances either in more general or more specific terms.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-3 RESPONSIBLE PERSONS.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of the property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefore in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-4 TIME.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-5 POWER OF CITY.
   (A)   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the city has power to determine what is
and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water supply,
outside of its corporate limits.
   (B)   Whenever it is practical to do so, the city has power summarily to
abate any nuisance after notice to the owner and an opportunity for him or her
to be heard, if this can be done.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-6 REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a public nuisance include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Reporting the offense to the city’s Code Enforcement Officer who will
investigate and order the appropriate remedy;
   (B)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
   (C)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
   (D)   Civil action; and
   (E)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured, as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; and/or
      (2)   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-7 REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
   (A)   Civil action; and
   (B)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; and
      (2)   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-8 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Some nuisances are of a nature as to constitute a grave and immediate
danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more persons
or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be such as
to justify, and even to require, the City Manager or other appropriate officer
or agency of the city government to take immediate and proper action summarily
to abate the nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more
deliberate action can be taken toward the abatement.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police, the City
Attorney, or the Building Inspector or any other officer subordinate to the
City Manager, may submit to the City Manager, a statement as to the existence
of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the city or law, and a request or
recommendation that it be abated.
      (2)   The City Manager, any Council member or any resident or residents
of the city may submit a statement and request or recommendation to the City
Council.
   (C)   (1)   The Council shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance
is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the subject,
the Council shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers
and other effects. Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or to have it
abated, the Council shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to
the owner of any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed
responsible for or to be causing the nuisance, and an adequate opportunity to
be heard, if the notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given.
      (2)   The notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be given
in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if their names and
addresses are known; but, if the names or addresses are not known, and the
peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a
notice of the hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation,
within the city.
   (D)   If the Council finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it shall
direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If the peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if
the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate
it within the specified time, the Council shall direct the City Manager to
abate the nuisance or to have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as
authorized by 50 O.S. § 16. The City Clerk shall send a statement of the cost
of the summary abatement to the owner and/or other persons responsible for or
causing the nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names
and addresses are known. Until paid, the cost shall constitute a debt to the
city collectible as other debts of the city may be collected.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-9 ABATEMENT BY SUIT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance as
provided for in this chapter, the city may bring suit in the District Court of
the county where the nuisance is located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17, and it
is hereby made the duty of the City Council, by the adoption of a resolution,
to direct the bringing of suit in the proper court for the abating of the
nuisance.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-10 VIOLATIONS.
   Any owner or person otherwise in possession or control who violates any
provision of this chapter by doing any act prohibited or declared to be
unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance, an offense or misdemeanor
thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any provision, or who fails to
do any act when the provision declares the failure to be unlawful or to be an
offense or misdemeanor, or who violates any legal order or regulation made
pursuant to this chapter, or who maintains any nuisance as defined in this
chapter, is guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in this code. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
ARTICLE 2: ACCUMULATION OF MATERIAL; TRASH
§ 13-20 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   OCCUPANT. The person(s) in actual or constructive possession of real
property.
   OWNER. The owner of record of real property as shown by the most current tax
rolls of the County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, debris, paper, salvage, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal or waste, lumber or other building materials, any
nonfunctional equipment or tools or furniture, or matter of any kind or form
which is uncared for, discarded, or abandoned.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-21 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following shall not be deemed accumulation of debris or trash as defined
above:
   (A)   Lawn furniture or picnic and playground equipment in use or items
customarily found in use on the premises;
   (B)   Materials used during construction, building, remodeling or
improvement of structures on premises with a current building permit;
   (C)   Items placed at the side of the street for bulk waste pick-up no more
than five days prior to the scheduled date of pick-up by the city’s contracted
waste collection company.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-22 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Trash which accumulates or exists upon any lot, tract or parcel of land, or
along the unpaved streets, unpaved alleys or public easements adjacent to such
lot, tract or parcel of land, is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-23 REMOVAL OF TRASH REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any owner or occupant of any lot,
tract or parcel of land to allow trash to accumulate or exist upon such
premises, or along the unpaved streets, unpaved alleys or public easements
adjacent to such premises, and it shall be the duty of such owner or occupant
to remove any and all trash on such premises.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-24 NOTICE AND ORDER TO REMOVE TRASH.
   (A)   Whenever the city shall determine that a nuisance exists, notice shall
be given to the owner of the property in person, by mail at the address shown
by the current year’s tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s office, or by posting
a copy of the notice on the property, or by publication as defined in 11 O.S. §
1-102 one time not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action by the
city. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property of trash,
and said notice shall further state that unless such work is performed within
ten days of the date of the notice the work shall be done by the city and the
full cost charged to the property owner. Notice may also be given by posting or
placarding the property or by publication, as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102.
   (B)   If the city anticipates summary abatement of the nuisance in
accordance with the provisions of division (A) of this section, the notice as
defined by 11 O.S. § 22-111, shall state:
      (1)   That any accumulations of trash on the owner’s property occurring
within six months from and after the date of this notice may be summarily
abated by the municipal governing body;
      (2)   That the costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the
owner; and
      (3)   That a lien may be imposed on the property to secure such payment,
all without further prior notice to the property owner.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-25 CONSENT TO CITY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE OR HEARING RE TRASH REMOVAL.
   (A)   The owner may give written consent authorizing the city to abate the
nuisance under §
13-24 hereof. Such consent shall waive his right to a hearing under the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   At any time within ten days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in this article, the owner may request, in writing to the City
Manager, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the
determination that a nuisance exists upon his property. The City Manager shall
conduct such hearing as soon as may be practicable but not earlier than five
days after receipt of the owner’s request for such hearing, and not later than
15 days after such receipt.
   (C)   At such hearing, the owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel; to present testimony, other evidence and arguments; and to cross
examine witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the City
Manager, after such hearing, shall determine that the trash accumulated or
existing upon the property in question constitutes a nuisance detrimental to
health or constitutes a fire or traffic hazard or blighting effect on the
neighborhood and shall determine that the person or persons requesting such
hearing are owners of the property upon which such nuisance is located, the
City Manager shall file in writing his findings in fact, and his order that
such nuisance be abated within ten days and shall cause such findings and order
to be served upon such owner at the conclusion of the hearing.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-26 APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF CITY MANAGER; HEARING.
   An appeal from a final order of the City Manager made pursuant to the
provisions of this article may be had by any person aggrieved thereby by filing
with the City Clerk, within ten days from the date of the City Manager’s final
order, a written notice of appeal. The City Clerk shall set the matter for a
hearing before the City Council and shall notify the appellant by registered
mail of the time and date when the matter will be heard. Upon the filing of the
notice of appeal, the City Manager shall transmit to the City Clerk all records
and orders pertaining to the case. The City Council, after hearing the matter
in a summary manner, may sustain, reverse, or modify the order of the City
Manager.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-27 ABATEMENT BY CITY - GENERALLY.
   (A)   In the event that no hearing shall have been requested as provided for
in this article or the City Manager or City Council, after such hearing, shall
have ordered such nuisance to be abated as aforesaid and such nuisance shall
not have been abated within the respective period specified, then the city may
cause such nuisance to be abated forthwith by removing same, in as many
instances as may be necessary for continued abatement of the nuisance, and may
cause a complaint to be filed against such owner in the Municipal Court for
violation of provisions of this article, or both.
   (B)   To affect abatement, the city may cause the nuisance to be abated by
employees for the City or, in the alternative, may prepare appropriate
specifications, advertise for bids and award a contract for such abatement to
the lowest and best bidder. The cost of abating any such nuisance, in each and
every instance where abated, shall be borne by the property owner and shall be
assessed as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   If the city causes property within the municipal limits to be cleaned
of trash, any subsequent accumulations of trash on the property occurring
within a six-month period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily
abated without further notice to the property owner. At the time of each such
summary abatement the City Manager or his or her designee shall notify the
property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-28 COLLECTION OF CITY’S COSTS.
   (A)   When the owner of the property upon which the nuisance is located has
failed or refused to abate said nuisance the city shall cause said nuisance to
be abated and the actual and necessary costs required to be expended by the
city together with such administrative expense for mailing of notices, and the
like, said administrative expenses not to exceed the amount established in the
Fee Schedule, and the total of said costs, shall be certified to the office of
the City Clerk, who shall be responsible for billing all of said costs to the
property owner.
   (B)   The City Clerk or his or her designee shall forward by mail to the
property owner at the address specified in § 13-24 a statement setting forth
the total costs for removal of;trash and demanding payment.
   (C)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing of
the statement, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the costs to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is
located and such costs shall be a lien against the property, until paid, and
shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem taxes against the property,
and when collected shall be paid to the city.
   (D)   Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the cost is
certified to the County Treasurer.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
ARTICLE 3: WEEDS AND NOXIOUS PLANTS
§ 13-30 CERTAIN NUISANCES DEFINED - WEEDS, NOXIOUS PLANTS AND THICKETS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS PLANTS. Poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac, at any height or
stage of maturity.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the
County Treasurer’s office and/or any person, firm, or corporation having a
legal or equitable interest in the property, including an officer, guardian,
executor, administrator, mortgagee in possession, managing or leasing agent of
such person, firm, or corporation.
   THICKET. A dense or tangled growth of small trees, bushes, brush or
undergrowth.
   WEEDS. All vegetation at any state of maturity which:
      (1)   Exceeds eight inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs, or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a detriment
to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said weeds;
      (2)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      (3)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      (4)   Gives off noxious odors;
      (5)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      (6)   Is dead or diseased.
      WEEDS does not include tended crops on land zoned for agricultural use
which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for other than
agricultural use.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-31 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Weeds, noxious plants, or thickets which are allowed to stand at
any season of the year upon any lot, tract or parcel of land, or along the
sidewalk, street, or unpaved alley adjacent to such lot, tract or parcel of
land, are hereby declared to constitute a nuisance; provided that this article
shall not apply to land zoned or used for agricultural use which is more than
150 feet distant from any occupied commercial or residential subdivision lot,
tract or parcel of land;
      (2)   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (3)   Carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or other things, which
are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin or
disease germs and the premises on which such exist.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-32 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person otherwise in possession or
control of any lot, tract or parcel of land, except as hereinbefore provided,
to allow weeds, noxious plants, or thickets to grow or stand upon such
premises, or along the sidewalk, curb, street, or alley adjacent to such
premises, and it shall be the duty of such owner to cut, remove or destroy any
and all such weeds, noxious plants or thickets on such premises.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-33 NOTICE AND ORDER TO CUT, REMOVE OR DESTROY.
   (A)   Whenever the city shall determine that a nuisance exists, notice shall
be given to the owner of the property by mail at the address shown by the
current year’s tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s office before the city holds
a hearing or takes action. The notice shall order the property owner to cut or
mow the vegetation on the property, and said notice shall further state that
unless such work is performed within ten days of the date of the notice the
work shall be done by the city and the full cost charged to the property owner.
At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner, the city shall obtain a
receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the
date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. Notice may also be
given by posting or placarding the property or by publication, as defined in 11
O.S. § 1-102.
   (B)   If the city anticipates summary abatement of the nuisance in
accordance with the provisions of this § 13-31, the notice as defined by 11
O.S. § 22-111, shall state:
      (1)   That any accumulations of weeds, noxious plants or thickets, or any
combination thereof, on the owner’s property occurring within six months from
and after the date of this notice may be summarily abated by the municipal
governing body;
      (2)   That the costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the
owner; and
      (3)   That a lien may be imposed on the property to secure such payment,
all without further prior notice to the property owner.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-34 CONSENT TO CITY ABATEMENT OR HEARING RE CLEARING OF WEEDS, NOXIOUS
PLANTS OR THICKETS.
   (A)   The owner may give written consent authorizing the City to abate the
nuisance under §
13-36 hereof. Such consent shall waive his right to a hearing under the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   At any time within ten days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in this article, the owner may request, in writing to the City
Manager, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the
determination that a nuisance exists upon his property. The City Manager shall
conduct such hearing as soon as may be practicable but not earlier than five
days after receipt of the owner’s request for such hearing, and not later than
15 days after such receipt.
   (C)   At such hearing, the owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony or evidence and arguments, and to cross examine
witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the City Manager, after
such hearing, shall determine that weeds, noxious plants, or thickets
constitute a nuisance detrimental to health or a fire or traffic hazard on such
property, and shall determine that the person or persons requesting such
hearing are owners of the property upon which such nuisance is located, the
City Manager shall file in writing his findings of fact, and his order that
such nuisance be abated within ten days, and shall cause such findings and
order to be served upon such owner at the conclusion of the hearing.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-35 APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF CITY MANAGER; HEARING.
   An appeal from a final order of the City Manager made pursuant to the
provisions of this article may be had by any person aggrieved thereby by filing
with the City Clerk, within ten days from the date of the City Manager’s final
order, a written notice of appeal. The City Clerk shall set the matter for a
hearing before the City Council and shall notify the appellant by registered
mail of the time and date when the matter will be heard. Upon the filing of the
notice of appeal, the City Manager shall transmit to the City Clerk all records
and orders pertaining to the case. The City Council, after hearing the matter
in a summary manner, may sustain, reverse, or modify the order of the City
Manager.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-36 ABATEMENT BY CITY - GENERALLY.
   (A)   In the event that no hearing shall have been requested as provided for
in this article or the City Manager or City Council, after such hearing, shall
have ordered such nuisance to be abated and such nuisance shall not have been
abated within the respective period specified, then the City Manager may cause
such nuisance to be abated forthwith by removing same, in as many instances as
may be necessary for continued abatement of the nuisance, and may cause a
complaint to be filed against such owner in the Municipal Court for violation
of provisions of this article, or both.
   (B)   To affect abatement, the city may cause the nuisance to be abated by
employees for the city or, in the alternative, may prepare appropriate
specifications, advertise for bids and award a contract for such abatement to
the lowest and best bidder. The cost of abating any such nuisance, in each and
every instance where abated, shall be borne by the property owner and shall be
assessed as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   If the city causes property within the municipal limits to be cleared
of weeds, noxious plants or thickets, any subsequent accumulations of the same
on the property occurring within a six-month period may be declared to be a
nuisance and may be summarily abated without further notice to the property
owner. At the time of each such summary abatement the City Manager or his or
her designee shall notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs
thereof.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-37 COLLECTION OF CITY’S COSTS.
   (A)   When the owner of the property upon which the nuisance is located has
failed or refused to abate said nuisance the city shall cause said nuisance to
be abated and the actual and necessary cost required to be expended by the city
together with such administrative expense for mailing of notices, and the like,
said administrative expenses not to exceed the amount established in the Fee
Schedule, and the total of said costs shall be certified to the office of the
City Clerk, who shall be responsible for billing all of said costs to the
property owner.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall forward by mail to the property owner at the
address specified in §
13-33(A) a statement setting forth the total costs for clearing weeds, noxious
plants or thickets, and demanding payment.
   (C)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing of
the statement, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the costs to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is
located and such costs shall be a lien against the property, until paid, and
shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem taxes against the property,
and when collected shall be paid to the city.
   (D)   Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the cost is
certified to the County Treasurer.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-38 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any property zoned and
used for agricultural purposes. However, a municipal government body may cause
the removal of weeds or trash from property zoned and used for agricultural
purposes pursuant to the provisions of this section, but only if such weeds or
trash pose a hazard to traffic and are located in, or within ten yards of, the
public right-of- way at intersections.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
ARTICLE 4: ABANDONED OR WRECKED VEHICLES
§ 13-40 CERTAIN NUISANCES DEFINED - ABANDONED OR WRECKED VEHICLES.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle stored, parked or kept and not in actual use
as means of transportation or having a valid registration tag.
   DISABLED VEHICLE. Any vehicle with a current tag and current insurance that
is temporarily disabled because of a mechanical malfunction.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle, as defined herein, which is wrecked, dismantled,
partially dismantled, inoperative, deteriorated, decayed, lacks necessary
repairs or maintenance, bearing no state license plate or bearing a
registration tag that is more than three months out of date, or discarded.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, or corporation having a legal or equitable interest
in the property, including an officer, guardian, executor, administrator,
mortgagee in possession, managing or leasing agent of such person, firm, or
corporation.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property which is not public property.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, roadway, sidewalk, alley way, parking or any
other property dedicated to the public use and over which the federal, state or
municipal government or any political subdivision thereof exercises ownership,
control or dominion.
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway; the term shall include, but not be limited
to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks,
tractors, go-carts, golf carts, boats, trailers, railroad cars, campers and
camper trailers.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-41 PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm, partnership
or corporation to store, park, leave or permit the parking, storing or leaving
of any vehicle of any kind which is in an abandoned or junk condition whether
attended or not, upon any public or private property within the corporate
limits of the city for a period of time in excess of five consecutive calendar
days. The presence of an abandoned or junked vehicle or parts thereof on
private or public property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be
abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this article.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Any vehicle enclosed within a building on private property with
doors that can be closed;
      (2)   Any legal vehicle that is temporarily disabled and that the owner/
operator has a city permit allowing vehicle repairs within an area not zoned
for that use;
      (3)   A maximum of 12 vehicles in a commercial zone so screened behind a
privacy fence that they cannot be seen by a person standing at ground level
adjacent to the property providing no public health or safety hazards exist.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-42 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   The City Manager, or designee, shall give notice of removal to the
owner of the private property where a nuisance as defined by this article is
located. At least ten days notice shall be given to the owner of the property
by mail at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the County
Treasurer’s office before the city takes action. It shall constitute sufficient
notice, when at the time of mailing of the notice to the property owner, the
city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt
shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
Notice may also be given by posting or placarding the property upon which the
vehicle is located or by publication, as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102.
   (B)   The notice shall order the property owner to abate the nuisance and
shall further state that unless such abatement is performed within ten days of
the date of the notice, the nuisance may be abated by the city.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-43 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the
private property on which the abandoned or junked vehicle is located, shall be
responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and disposition by the
city or its designee, the owner of the private property where the vehicle is
located shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby authorized to remove
or have removed any vehicle left at any place within the city which has been
determined to be in violation of this section or abandoned, stolen or
unclaimed. The vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of
in accordance with applicable ordinances.
   (C)   The owner of any vehicle so removed may regain possession thereof by
making application to the city within 30 days after its removal, verifying
ownership and current registration. The owner shall reimburse the city for all
towing and storage costs which shall have accrued to such vehicle prior to
regaining possession. If the vehicle is not reclaimed within 30 days, it maybe
sold without further notice.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-44 CONSENT TO CITY ABATEMENT OR HEARING RE ABANDONED OR WRECKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The owner may give written consent authorizing the City to abate the
nuisance under §
13-46 hereof. Such consent shall waive his right to a hearing under the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   At any time within ten days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in this article, the owner may request, in writing to the City
Manager, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the
determination that a nuisance exists upon his property. The City Manager shall
conduct such hearing as soon as may be practicable but not earlier than five
days after receipt of the owner’s request for such hearing, and not later than
15 days after such receipt.
   (C)   At such hearing, the owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony or evidence and arguments, and to cross-examine
witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the City Manager, after
such hearing, shall determine that the inoperative or junked vehicle
constitutes a growing blight or a substantial detriment to health and safety of
the residents of the community, and shall determine that the person or persons
requesting such hearing are owners of the property upon which such nuisance is
located, the City Manager shall file in writing his findings of fact, and his
order that such nuisance be abated within ten days, and shall cause such
findings and order to be served upon such owner at the conclusion of the
hearing.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-45 APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF CITY MANAGER; HEARING.
   An appeal from a final order of the City Manager made pursuant to the
provisions of this article may be had by any person aggrieved thereby by filing
with the City Clerk, within ten days from the date of the City Manager’s final
order, a written notice of appeal. The City Clerk shall set the matter for a
hearing before the City Council and shall notify the appellant by registered
mail of the time and date when the matter will be heard. Upon the filing of the
notice of appeal, the City Manager shall transmit to the City Clerk all records
and orders pertaining to the case. The City Council, after hearing the matter
in a summary manner, may sustain, reverse, or modify the order of the City
Manager.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-46 ABATEMENT BY CITY - GENERALLY.
   (A)   In the event that no hearing shall have been requested as provided for
in this article or the City Manager or City Council, after such hearing, shall
have ordered such nuisance to be abated and such nuisance shall not have been
abated within the period specified, then the city shall have the right to take
possession of the inoperative or junked vehicle and remove it from the premises
and may cause a complaint to be filed against such owner in the Municipal Court
for violation of provisions of this article, or both.
   (B)   To effect abatement, the city may cause the nuisance to be abated by
employees for the city or, in the alternative, may prepare appropriate
specifications, advertise for bids and award a contract for such abatement to
the lowest and best bidder. The cost of abating any such nuisance, in each and
every instance where abated, shall be borne by the property owner and shall be
assessed as hereinafter provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere, hinder, or to refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon
private property for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of
this article.
   (C)   If the city causes the removal of abandoned or wrecked vehicles, and
the like, any subsequent accumulations of the same on the property occurring
within a six-month period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily
abated without further notice to the property owner. At the time of each such
summary abatement the City Manager or his or her designee shall notify the
property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-47 COLLECTION OF CITY’S COSTS.
   (A)   When the owner of the property upon which the nuisance is located has
failed or refused to abate said nuisance the city shall cause said nuisance to
be abated and the actual and necessary cost required to be expended by the city
together with such administrative expense for mailing of notices, and the like,
said administrative expenses not to exceed the amount established in the Fee
Schedule, and the total of said costs shall be certified to the office of the
City Clerk, who shall be responsible for billing all of said costs to the
property owner.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall forward by mail to the property owner at the
address specified in §
13-42 of this article a statement setting forth the total costs for removing
junked vehicles, and demanding payment.
   (C)   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property from which
abandoned vehicles have been removed by the city to pay within 30 days the
unrecovered expense incurred by the city in such removal, the amount may be
added to the municipal utility bills of the private property from which removed
and recovered in the same manner as such bills.
   (D)   If the private property is not served by municipal utilities or if
collection efforts are not successful, the cost may be certified by the City
Clerk to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is located
who shall add the same to the ad valorem taxes assessed against the property,
until paid, and such costs shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem
taxes assessed against the property, and when collected shall be paid to the
city.
   (E)   Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the cost is
certified to the County Treasurer.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
ARTICLE 5: MAINTENANCE OF RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL PREMISES
§ 13-50 CERTAIN NUISANCES DEFINED - MAINTENANCE OF RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
PREMISES.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
   BLIGHT. A deteriorated condition.
   DWELLING or BUILDING. Any structure which contains one or more rooms
arranged for and with facilities for human occupancy.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of the owner and/or occupant of such premises.
   INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE. The code which has been duly enacted by the
City Council, copies of which are on file at City Hall.
   OWNER. The owner or agent of record of real property as shown by the most
current tax rolls of the County Treasurer.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, tract or parcel of land including the buildings,
courtlage, and structures thereon.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-51 ACCEPTABLE EXTERIOR STANDARDS FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior structures, generally.
      (1)   The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good repair, in
sound condition and sanitary so as to pose neither a threat to the public
health and safety nor a blighting effect on the surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   The exterior components including but not limited to storefronts,
cornices, signs, awnings, marquees, siding, windows, window frames, insect
screens, doors and door frames of all structures shall be free of holes,
breaks, or loose or rotting materials, and maintained weatherproof and properly
surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
      (3)   Every basement, foundation, hatchway, and vent shall be maintained
in sound condition and in good repair.
      (4)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects which admit rain.
      (5)   Overhang extensions. All standpipes, exhaust ducts, gutters and
similar overhang extensions shall be maintained in good repair so as to be in a
safe and sound condition. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be
protected from the elements and against decay by periodic application of
weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment, as
needed.
   (B)   Accessory structures. The exterior of accessory structures including
but not limited to detached garages, storage facilities, sheds, loading docks,
boat docks, fences and walls, shall be maintained in sound condition and good
repair.
   (C)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any structure
located thereon, except for water detention or retention areas approved by the
city.
   (D)   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition as provided in this
article so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public
health or safety.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-52 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   Each owner and/or occupant of the premises shall maintain the structures and
exterior property in compliance with the requirements of this article. A person
shall not occupy or permit another person to occupy or use premises which do
not comply with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-53 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of this
code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Any building or structure which upon examination by the city is deemed
dangerous to the public health or safety because of damage, decay or other
condition, is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   Any building or structure which upon examination by the city is deemed
as not meeting the minimum conditions of the acceptable exterior standards for
maintenance.
   (C)   All structures, premises and land which upon examination by the city
is determined to cause a blighting problem on the surrounding neighborhood or
area.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-54 NOTICE TO CORRECT.
   (A)   The City Manager, or designee, shall give notice of correction to the
owner of the private property where a nuisance as defined by this article is
located. At least ten days notice shall be given to the owner of the property
by mail at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the County
Treasurer’s office before the city takes action. It shall constitute sufficient
notice, when at the time of mailing of the notice to the property owner, the
city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt
shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
Notice may also be given by posting or placarding the property or by
publication, as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102.
   (B)   The notice shall order the property owner to abate the nuisance and
shall further state that unless such abatement is performed within the
specified time, the nuisance may be abated by the city.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-55 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CORRECTION.
   (A)   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the
private property which is deemed to be a nuisance according to this article,
shall be responsible for its correction. In the event of correction by the city
or its designee, the owner of the private property where the nuisances exists
shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby authorized to
correct or have corrected any nuisance at any place within the city which has
been determined to be in violation of this section.
   (C)   The owner shall reimburse the city for all costs incurred for
correcting the nuisance.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-56 CONSENT TO CITY ABATEMENT OR HEARING RE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner may give written consent authorizing the City to abate the
nuisance under §
13-58 hereof. Such consent shall waive his right to a hearing under the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   At any time within ten days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in this article, the owner may request, in writing to the City
Manager, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the
determination that a nuisance exists upon his property. The City Manager shall
conduct such hearing as soon as may be practicable but not earlier than five
days after receipt of the owner’s request for such hearing, and not later than
15 days after such receipt.
   (C)   At such hearing, the owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony or evidence and arguments, and to cross-examine
witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the City Manager, after
such hearing, shall determine that the property constitutes a growing blight or
a substantial detriment to health and safety of the residents of our community,
and shall determine that the person or persons requesting such hearing are
owners and/or occupants of the property which constitutes the nuisance, the
City Manager shall file in writing his findings of fact, and his order that
such nuisance be abated within a specified time period, and shall cause such
findings and order to be served upon such owner at the conclusion of the
hearing.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-57 APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF CITY MANAGER; HEARING.
   An appeal from a final order of the City Manager made pursuant to the
provisions of this article may be had by any person aggrieved thereby by filing
with the City Clerk, within ten days from the date of the City Manager’s final
order, a written notice of appeal. The City Clerk shall set the matter for a
hearing before the City Council and shall notify the appellant by registered
mail of the time and date when the matter will be heard. Upon the filing of the
notice of appeal, the City Manager shall transmit to the City Clerk all records
and orders pertaining to the case. The City Council, after hearing the matter
in a summary manner, may sustain, reverse, or modify the order of the City
Manager.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-58 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   In the event that no hearing shall have been requested as provided for
in this article or the City Manager or City Council, after such hearing, shall
have ordered such nuisance to be abated and such nuisance shall not have been
abated within the period specified, then the city shall have the right to abate
the nuisance and may cause a complaint to be filed against such owner in the
Municipal Court for violation of provisions of this article, or both.
   (B)   To affect abatement, the city may cause the nuisance to be abated by
employees for the city or, in the alternative, may prepare appropriate
specifications, advertise for bids and award a contract for such abatement to
the lowest and best bidder. The cost of abating any such nuisance, in each and
every instance where abated, shall be borne by the property owner and shall be
assessed as hereinafter provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere, hinder, or to refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon
private property for the purpose of correcting a nuisance under the provisions
of this article.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-59 COLLECTION OF CITY’S COSTS.
   (A)   When the owner of the property upon which the nuisance is located has
failed or refused to abate said nuisance, the city shall cause said nuisance to
be abated and the actual and necessary cost required to be expended by the city
together with such administrative expense for mailing of notices, and the like,
said administrative expenses not to exceed the amount established in the Fee
Schedule, and the total of said costs shall be certified to the office of the
City Clerk, who shall be responsible for billing all of said costs to the
property owner.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall forward by mail to the property owner at the
address specified in §
13-54 a statement setting forth the total costs for abating the nuisance.
   (C)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing of
the statement, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the costs to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is
located and such costs shall be a lien against the property, until paid, and
shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem taxes against the property,
and when collected shall be paid to the city.
   (D)   Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the cost is
certified to the County Treasurer.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
ARTICLE 6: UNOCCUPIED, DILAPIDATED AND DANGEROUS STRUCTURES
§ 13-60 CERTAIN NUISANCES DEFINED - UNOCCUPIED, DILAPIDATED AND DANGEROUS
STRUCTURES.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
   DANGEROUS STRUCTURES. Any unoccupied dwelling or other building which shall
be found to have any or all of the following defects:
      (1)   The building or dwelling is structurally unsafe, unstable,
unsanitary, vermin infested, and/or a fire hazard;
      (2)   The building or dwelling lacks unblocked exit facilities,
provisions for proper occupancy of any future occupants to include adequate
heat, light, ventilation, water and sewer; or
      (3)   The building or dwelling lacks adequate maintenance because of
dilapidation, obsolescence and/or extended abandonment.
   DILAPIDATED. A structure declared by the city to be unfit for human
habitation or utility.
   DWELLING or BUILDING. Any structure which contains one or more rooms
arranged for and with facilities for human occupancy.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of the owner and/or occupant of such premises.
   INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE. The code which has been duly enacted by the
City Council, copies of which are on file at City Hall.
   INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE. The code which has been duly enacted by the City
Council, copies of which are on file at City Hall.
   OWNER. The owner or agent of record of real property as shown by the most
current tax rolls of the County Treasurer.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, tract or parcel of land including the buildings and
structures thereon.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed.
   UNOCCUPIED. Any structure not in actual use according to its zoning and/or
constructed or intended purpose.
   VACANT. Any structure temporarily not in use.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-61 ACCEPTABLE EXTERIOR STANDARDS FOR UNOCCUPIED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition as provided in this
article so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public
health or safety.
   (B)   Unoccupied structures shall be maintained in accordance with §
13-51 with the following exception: for purposes of public safety, windows,
doors, hatchways, and the like may be temporarily boarded for a time not to
exceed 180 days. After the specified time, the structure shall be declared a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-62 AUTHORIZATION OF ENTRY.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall enforce this article and in so
doing may enter any unoccupied dwelling or other building or premises during
all reasonable hours, to make inspections and examinations thereof in order to
perform the duties imposed on him or her by this article, the International
Building Code, as adopted by the City Council, and the laws of the state.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-63 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   Each owner of the premises shall maintain the structures and exterior
property in compliance with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-64 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of this
code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Any building or structure which upon examination by the city is deemed
dangerous to the public health or safety because of damage, decay or other
condition, is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance; or
   (B)   All structures, premises and land which upon examination by the city
is determined to be dilapidated and/or to cause a blighting problem on the
surrounding neighborhood or area.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-65 NOTICE TO CORRECT; RESPONSIBILITY FOR CORRECTION.
   (A)   The City Manager, or designee, shall give notice of correction to the
owner of the private property where a nuisance as defined by this article is
located. At least ten days notice shall be given to the owner of the property
by mail at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the County
Treasurer’s office before the city takes action. It shall constitute sufficient
notice, when at the time of mailing of the notice to the property owner, the
city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt
shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
Notice may also be given by posting or placarding the property or by
publication, as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102.
   (B)   The notice shall include a description of the real estate sufficient
for identification, defects present and a description of the nuisance cited
herein and order the property owner to abate the nuisance and shall further
state that unless such abatement is performed within the specified time, the
nuisance may be abated by the city.
   (C)   Defects corrected.
      (1)   If the defects defined in the written notice are corrected by the
owner or agent of the dwelling or building within 30 days after mailing of the
notice, the City Manager or designee shall remove the nuisance placard, and
compliance with this article shall be deemed complete and proper.
      (2)   However, if the defects or damage or cost of reconstruction or
restoration is in excess of 50% of the value of the building or dwellings,
exclusive of foundations, the building or dwellings, if reconstructed or
restored, shall be made to conform with respect to materials and type of
construction, to the requirements of the National Building Code as adopted. No
change of use or occupancy shall be compelled by reason of the reconstruction
or restoration.
   (D)   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the
private property which is deemed to be a nuisance according to this article,
shall be responsible for its correction. In the event of correction by the city
or its designee, the owner of the private property where the nuisances exists
shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
   (E)   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby authorized to
correct or have corrected any nuisance at any place within the city which has
been determined to be in violation of this section.
   (F)   The owner shall reimburse the city for all costs incurred for
correcting the nuisance.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-66 PLACARDING FOR DILAPIDATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any notice issued for a dilapidated structure shall also include a
placard placed on the main entrance of the dwelling or building determined to
be dilapidated. The placard shall read:
“NOTICE: This building has been declared a public nuisance by the City of
Guthrie. Human occupancy is hereby prohibited and unlawful.”
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or remove the placard
from any dwelling or other building which has been cited as a public nuisance,
except as provided for herein.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-67 CONSENT TO CITY ABATEMENT OR HEARING RE UNOCCUPIED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The owner may give written consent authorizing the city to abate the
nuisance under §
13-69 hereof. Such consent shall waive his right to a hearing under the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   At any time within ten days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in this article, the owner may request, in writing to the City
Manager, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the
determination that a nuisance exists upon his property. The City Manager shall
conduct such hearing as soon as may be practicable but not earlier than five
days after receipt of the owner’s request for such hearing, and not later than
15 days after such receipt.
   (C)   At such hearing, the owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony or evidence and arguments, and to cross-examine
witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the City Manager, after
such hearing, shall determine that the property constitutes a growing blight or
a substantial detriment to health and safety of the residents of our community,
and shall determine that the person or persons requesting such hearing are
owners of the property which constitutes the nuisance, the City Manager shall
file in writing his findings of fact, and his order that such nuisance be
abated within a specified time period, and shall cause such findings and order
to be served upon such owner at the conclusion of the hearing.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-68 APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF CITY MANAGER; HEARING.
   An appeal from a final order of the City Manager made pursuant to the
provisions of this article may be had by any person aggrieved thereby by filing
with the City Clerk, within ten days from the date of the City Manager’s final
order, a written notice of appeal. The City Clerk shall set the matter for a
hearing before the City Council and shall notify the appellant by registered
mail of the time and date when the matter will be heard. Upon the filing of the
notice of appeal, the City Manager shall transmit to the City Clerk all records
and orders pertaining to the case. The City Council, after hearing the matter
in a summary manner, may sustain, reverse, or modify the order of the City
Manager.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-69 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   In the event that no hearing shall have been requested as provided for
in this article or the City Manager or City Council, after such hearing, shall
have ordered such nuisance to be abated and such nuisance shall not have been
abated within the period specified, then the city shall have the right to abate
the nuisance and may cause a complaint to be filed against such owner in the
Municipal Court for violation of provisions of this article, or both.
   (B)   To effect abatement, the city may cause the nuisance to be abated by
employees for the city or, in the alternative, may prepare appropriate
specifications, advertise for bids and award a contract for such abatement to
the lowest and best bidder. The cost of abating any such nuisance, in each and
every instance where abated, shall be borne by the property owner and shall be
assessed as hereinafter provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere, hinder, or to refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon
private property for the purpose of correcting a nuisance under the provisions
of this article.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-70 DEMOLITION OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   Only vacant or unoccupied dwellings or buildings shall be subject to
demolition and removal under this article.
   (B)   Any owner or agent of the dwelling or building receiving notice of
intent to abate nuisance or any other notice issued under the provisions of
this article may demolish and remove same at his or her expense and the action
shall be deemed compliance with this article.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
§ 13-71 COLLECTION OF CITY’S COSTS.
   (A)   When the owner of the property upon which the nuisance is located has
failed or refused to abate said nuisance the city shall cause said nuisance to
be abated and the actual and necessary cost required to be expended by the city
together with such administrative expense for mailing of notices and the like,
said administrative expenses not to exceed the amount established in the Fee
Schedule, and the total of said costs shall be certified to the office of the
City Clerk, who shall be responsible for billing all of said costs to the
property owner.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall forward by mail to the property owner at the
address specified in §
13-65 a statement setting forth the total costs for abating the nuisance.
   (C)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing of
the statement, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the costs to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is
located and such costs shall be a lien against the property, until paid, and
shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem taxes against the property,
and when collected shall be paid to the city.
   (D)   Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the cost is
certified to the County Treasurer.
(Ord. 3203, passed 7-7-09)
ARTICLE 7: GRAFFITI
§ 13-80 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIES GRAFFITI, APPLY GRAFFITI or APPLYING GRAFFITI. The act of drawing,
painting, chiseling, scratching, or etching graffiti on public or private
property within the city.
   DIRECTOR. The director of the public works department or designee.
   GRAFFITI. Without limitation, any letter, word, name, number, symbol,
slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing, or other mark of any kind visible
to the public that is drawn, painted, chiseled, scratched, or etched on a rock,
tree, wall, bridge, fence, gate, building, or other structure. However, this
definition does not include advertising or any other letter, word, name,
number, symbol, slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing, or other mark of
any kind lawfully placed on property by an owner of the property or by an
authorized agent for such owner or occupant.
   OCCUPANT. Any person shown by the records of the county clerk's office as a
tenant of property or any person in actual physical possession of property.
   OWNER. Any person shown by the records of the county clerk's office as the
owner of a property.
   REMOVAL, REMOVE, or REMOVED. When used in relation to the eradication of
graffiti, the act of taking graffiti off or masking the presence of graffiti on
a rock, tree, wall, bridge, fence, gate, building, or other structure.
(Ord. 3373, passed 6-21-22)
§ 13-81 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this article is to provide for the prevention and removal of
graffiti within the city. The intent of the City Council is to prevent and
remove a public nuisance that is a growing blight on and a substantial
detriment to the health, safety, and general welfare of the community and its
inhabitants.
(Ord. 3373, passed 6-21-22)
§ 13-82 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The City Council declares that graffiti on public or private property within
the city constitutes a public nuisance to the detriment of the city and its
inhabitants and visitors. The provisions for prevention and removal of such
public nuisance are set forth in the following sections.
(Ord. 3373, passed 6-21-22)
§ 13-83 APPLICATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall apply graffiti to public or private property within
the city.
   (B)   Any person who applies graffiti to public or private property within
the city shall be deemed guilty of an offense. Each act of applying graffiti
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   This section shall be enforced by the city police department.
(Ord. 3373, passed 6-21-22) Penalty, see §
13-99
§ 13-84 REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   For the purpose of the city eradicating graffiti, the nuisance abatement
procedures set forth in § 13-87 will apply.
(Ord. 3373, passed 6-21-22)
§ 13-85 PROHIBITIONS ON SPRAY PAINT CONTAINERS AND BROAD-TIPPED INDELIBLE
MARKERS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years may possess an aerosol spray-paint
container or broadtipped indelible marker on any public property unless
accompanied by a parent, guardian, employer, teacher, or other adult in any
similar relationship and such possession is for a lawful purpose.
   (B)   No person may possess an aerosol spray paint container or broad-tipped
indelible marker on any private property unless the owner, agent, manager, or
other person having control of the property consented to the presence of the
aerosol spray paint container or broad-tipped indelible marker.
(Ord. 3373, passed 6-21-22) Penalty, see §
13-99
§ 13-86 ABATEMENT OF GRAFFITI.
   (A)   The City Code Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to order
the owner or occupant of any private premises to abate or remove from such
premises, at the owner's or occupant's own expense, any graffiti as described
in this chapter within ten days or within such other time as might be
reasonable, and a failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   At least ten days' notice shall be given to the owner of the property
by certified mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
County Treasurer's office, or any other source deemed by the city to be more
accurate than said tax rolls before the City Manager holds a hearing or takes
action. At the time of mailing the notice to any property ovmer the
municipality shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which
receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the
addressee. The notice shall order the property owner to abate the nuisance
graffiti, as appropriate, and said notice shall further state that unless such
work is performed within ten days of the date of the notice, the work shall be
done by the city and a notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk
against the property for the cost due and owing to the city. The notice shall
further state that the property owner may request a hearing within ten days
after the date of the notice to determine whether the graffiti constitutes a
nuisance as defined in this subchapter. If the certified mail to the property
owner is refused, service of the notice shall be deemed valid and complete.
However, if the property owner cannot be located as shown by the certified mail
being returned as unclaimed, notice shall be given by posting a copy of the
notice on the property for ten days and by publication, by publishing in a
legal newspaper published in the city, and which is of general circulation
within the city, one time not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action
by the city.
   (C)   The owner of the property may give his or her written consent to the
city authorizing the removal or the abatement of public nuisances. By giving
written consent, the owner waives his right to a hearing by the city.
   (D)   A hearing may be held by the City Manager or his or her designee, the
administrative officer, to determine whether the graffiti that is a public
nuisance has caused the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit,
and welfare of the city.
   (E)   Upon finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard and that the property would be benefited by the removal of
such conditions, the city agents are granted the right of entry on the property
for the removal or abatement of the conditions and performance of the necessary
duties as a governmental function of the city.
   (F)   The City Manager or his or her designee as the administrative officer
shall determine the actual cost of abatement and any other expenses as may be
necessary in connection therewith, including the cost of notice and mailing.
The City Clerk shall forward by certified mail, with return receipt requested,
to the property owner at the address specified in division (B) of this section
a statement of such actual costs and demanding payment. If the abatement is
done by the city, the cost to the property owner for the abatement shall not
exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment and
administrative expenses required. If the abatement of public nuisances is done
on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and
best bidder.
   (G)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing of
the statement, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the costs to the County Treasurer, and the costs shall be levied on the
property and collected by the County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by
law. The cost and interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from
the date the cost is certified to the County Treasurer, coequal with the lien
of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and
superior to all other titles and liens against the property, and the lien shall
continue until the cost shall be fully paid. At any time prior to the
collection as provided in this division, the city may pursue any civil remedy
for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon. Upon receiving
payment, if any, the City Clerk shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice
of such payment and directing discharge of the lien.
   (H)   The property owner shall have the right of appeal to the City Council
from any order of the City Manager or his or her designee, the administrative
officer. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the
City Clerk within ten days after the administrative order is rendered.
(Ord. 3373, passed 6-21-22)
§ 13-99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of the offense of applying graffiti to public or
private property within the city as set forth in §
13-83, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500, plus costs, or
imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of §
13-85 shall be 60 days in jail and/or a fine of up to $500 for each individual
violation.
(Ord. 3373, passed 6-21-22)
CHAPTER 14: OFFENSES
Article 1: General Offenses
   
14-1.   Offenses; penalty procedure
   
14-2.   Attempting to commit an offense
   
14-3.   Aiding in an offense
Article 2: Offenses Against Decency, Morality and Public Policy
   
14-15.   Giving testimony
   
14-16.   Slot machines
   
14-17.   Short weights or measures
   
14-18.   Obtaining money and the like through fraud
   
14-19.   Worthless checks
   
14-20.   Houses of ill fame; prostitution
   
14-21.   Public decency
   
14-22.   Arrest by police officers
   
14-23.   Intoxicating beverages
   
14-24.   Possession and the like of certain drugs
   
14-25.   Curfew
Article 3: Offense Against Peace
   
14-40.   Disturbing the peace
   
14-41.   Prize fights
   
14-42.   Fighting prohibited
   
14-43.   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
14-44.   Disturbing religious assemblies
   
14-45.   Fighting; unlawful assembly
   
14-46.   Discharging firearms
   
14-47.   Turkey shoot; target shooting
   
14-48.   Carrying concealed weapons
   
14-49.   Assault and battery
   
14-50.   Defacing buildings
   
14-51.   Littering
   
14-52.   Destroying property
   
14-53.   Tampering with water meters
   
14-54.   Unlawful entry
   
14-55.   Petit larceny
   
14-56.   Buying from minors
   
14-57.   Injuring trees
   
14-58.   Removing markers
   
14-59.   Camping in parks; permission required
   
14-60.   Trespassing
Article 4: Offenses Against Public Authority
   
14-70.   Resisting or impersonating an officer
   
14-71.   Resisting arrest; escape from custody
   
14-72.   Refusal to assist officers
   
14-73.   Officer failure
   
14-74.   Breaking locks on jails
Article 5: Offenses Committed by Juveniles
   
14-85.   Procedures for release
   
14-86.   Review of applicable procedures
Article 6: Loud Noises
   
14-100.   Purpose
   
14-101.   Scope
   
14-102.   Unnecessary noise prohibited
   
14-103.   Noise enumerated
   
14-104.   Loud noises from vehicles
Article 7: Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco
   
14-115.   Definitions
   
14-116.   Furnishing or sale of tobacco products to minors
   
14-117.   Receipt of tobacco products by minors
   
14-118.   Distribution of tobacco product samples
   
14-119.   Sale of tobacco products except in original sealed package
   
14-120.   Restrictions on manner of enforcement
Article 8: Prevention of Truancy Within the Guthrie Public School System
   
14-130.   Parental responsibility
   
14-131.   Refusal of minor to attend school
   
14-132.   Exceptions
   
14-133.   Affirmative defense
   
14-134.   Violations
   
14-135.   Admission of records
 
   
14-150.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 14-1 OFFENSES; PENALTY PROCEDURE.
   Except in cases where a different punishment is now or may hereafter be
prescribed by ordinance, any person who commits an offense shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in §
12-34 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
§ 14-2 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city, and in an attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense, but
fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty of
an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the offense
itself.
(`90 Code, § 14-2)
§ 14-3 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling, aiding or abetting in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels, aids or abets another in the commission of such is guilty of an
offense and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(21 O.S. § 28) (`90 Code, § 14-3)
ARTICLE 2: OFFENSES AGAINST DECENCY, MORALITY AND PUBLIC POLICY
§ 14-15 GIVING TESTIMONY.
   No person shall be excused from giving any testimony or evidence upon any
investigation or prosecution for violation of this article upon the ground that
the testimony would tend to convict him or her of a crime, but the testimony or
evidence shall not be received against him or her upon any criminal
investigation or prosecution, except in prosecution against him or her for
perjury committed in giving testimony. The article providing for an inquiry
into violations of the liquor laws shall be applicable to inquiries into
violations of the ordinances against gambling.
(`90 Code, § 14-8)
§ 14-16 SLOT MACHINES.
   Any person owning, controlling, operating, causing or allowing to be
operated any slot machine for gain in any room or in any other place in the
city, shall be guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 14-9)
§ 14-17 SHORT WEIGHTS OR MEASURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city
to knowingly sell any commodity or article of merchandise and make or give a
false or short weight or measure therefor; or obtain money or other thing of
value, under the value of $20, by misrepresentation or under false pretenses or
for any person or persons owning or keeping or having in charge any scales or
steelyards used in weighing live stock, hay, grain, coal or any other article
to knowingly and wilfully report any false or untrue weight whereby another
person shall be defrauded or injured.
(`90 Code, § 14-10)
§ 14-18 OBTAINING MONEY AND THE LIKE THROUGH FRAUD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain or attempt to obtain, with
intent to cheat and defraud, from any person, firm or corporation, any money,
property or valuable thing, by use of any trick or deception, or false or
fraudulent representation or statement or pretense, or by any other means or
instrument commonly called “the confidential game,” by means or use of false or
bogus checks or by any other written or printed order, engraved instrument or
spurious coin.
(21 O.S. § 1541.1) (`90 Code, § 14-11)
§ 14-19 WORTHLESS CHECKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or
corporation to obtain from any person, firm or corporation any money or
property or labor or service or other thing of value or credit on an account or
credit on any other obligation by means or use of a worthless check, either as
the maker or endorser thereof.
(`90 Code, § 14-12)
   (B)   The term “worthless check,” as used herein, is defined as any written,
printed or engraved check, draft or other negotiable instrument payable to
bearer or to the order of any person, firm or corporation named thereon, which
check, draft or other negotiable instrument has been dishonored by the drawee
named thereon because of insufficient funds on deposit by maker with the drawee
or because of the maker having no account with the drawee.
(`90 Code, § 14-13)
   (C)   The making, drawing, uttering or delivering of a worthless check shall
be prima facie evidence of intent to defraud and of the knowledge that maker
has insufficient funds or no account (as the case may be) with the drawee named
in the worthless check. The maker shall not have paid the drawee thereof the
amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, within five days from the
date the same is presented for payment, and provided, further, that the
worthless check is first presented to the drawee for payment within 30 days
after date of the worthless check as shown on the face thereof.
(`90 Code, § 14-14)
   (D)   Any endorser of a worthless check who obtains thereby money, property,
labor, services or other things of value or credit on an account or credit on
any other obligation shall be deemed guilty of uttering a worthless check
within the meaning of this article, provided that the endorser shall not have
paid the holder the amount due thereon within three days after written or
personal notification by the holder that the worthless check has been
dishonored by the drawee named thereon and provided, further, that the
worthless check is first presented to the drawee for payment within 30 days
after the date of the worthless check as shown on the face thereof.
(`90 Code, § 14-15)
§ 14-20 HOUSES OF ILL FAME; PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the city a bawdy
house or house of ill fame or assignation house and for the purpose of
suppressing any house mentioned in this section or arresting the keeper or
inmates thereof or person found therein, the Chief of Police and police
officers of the city are hereby authorized to enter, at any, time of the day or
night, any house or room within the city consorting with or in the company of
any prostitute or being a bawdy house, house of prostitution or assignation or
any house, room or building the inmates of which are at the time disorderly.
(`90 Code, § 14-16)
   (B)   Every person appearing or acting as master or mistress or having the
care, use or management, for any time, of any house, room or building mentioned
in the above section shall be deemed a keeper thereof, within the meaning and
intent of the section.
(`90 Code, § 14-17)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, male or female, to be an inmate
of or boarder or lodger in any house or room of prostitution or assignation in
this city, or for any person to frequent or visit any house or room for any
lewd, licentious, obscene or indecent purpose whatever.
(`90 Code, § 14-19)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keel, maintain or harbor, in
this city, any prostitute, knowing her to be such or generally reported in the
neighborhood to be a prostitute.
(`90 Code, § 14-20)
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to keep or use any
house or other building or any room within any building or any booth, tent or
carriage for any lewd, lascivious, indecent or immoral purpose or purposes
whatever.
(`90 Code, § 14-21)
§ 14-21 PUBLIC DECENCY.
   Every person who willfully and wrongfully commits any act which grossly
injures the person or property of another, which grossly disturbs the public
peace or health, which openly outrages public decency and is injurious to
public morals, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(`90 Code, § 14-24) (Ord. 2966, passed 10-6-92)
§ 14-22 ARREST BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   The police officers of the city shall have the right to make arrests for
offenses as now provided by the laws of the state, as amended from time to
time.
(`90 Code, § 14-25)
§ 14-23 INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, barter, sell, give away
or otherwise furnish to another, any intoxicating liquor or beverage of any
kind, except as permitted by law.
(`90 Code, § 14-33)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession or
under his or her control any intoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind,
except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey from place
to place within the city any intoxicating liquor or beverage, except as
permitted by law.
(`90 Code, § 14-34)
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person or any agent or employee thereof, to
keep, maintain or aid or abet in keeping or maintaining, a place where
intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, bartered, given away or otherwise
furnished in violation of law or the ordinances of the city.
(`90 Code, § 14-36)
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person drunk, or in a state of intoxication, to
appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or other public
place or for any person to drink intoxicating liquor or beverage upon or in any
street, alley or other public place within the city.
(`90 Code, § 14-37)
   (E)   (1)   All beverages containing more than 3.2% alcohol by weight and
all mixed beverage coolers, as defined in 37 O.S. § 506, regardless of percent
of alcoholic content, are hereby declared to be INTOXICATING. All beverages
containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume and not more than 3.2% alcohol by
weight are hereby declared to be LOW-POINT BEER. Wherever the term NON-
INTOXICATING BEVERAGE or NONINTOXICATING MALT BEVERAGE appears in this chapter,
such term shall be construed to mean low-point beer. The manufacture,
distribution, and sale of low- point beer, including but not limited to beer or
cereal malt beverages are hereby declared subject to the provisions of 37 O.S.
§§ 163.1 et seq.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years of
age to have possession of any nonintoxicating beverage while the person is upon
any public street, road or highway, or in any public building or place.
(`90 Code, § 14-37.1)
(Ord. 2978, passed 10-19-93)
Statutory reference:
   Rights of detained or confined intoxicated persons, see 43A O.S. §§ 5-201 et
seq.
   Emergency detention and protective custody of intoxicated persons, see 43A
O.S. §§ 5-206 et seq.
   Assistance to an intoxicated person in a public place, see 43A O.S. § 3-428
§ 14-24 POSSESSION AND THE LIKE OF CERTAIN DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to have
possession of or control of or to sell, furnish or give away any LSD,
marijuana, cocaine, alpha or beta eucaine, opium, morphine, codeine, heroin,
any salt or compound of any of the substances or their salts or compound,
except upon the original written order or prescription of a lawfully authorized
practitioner of medicine, dentistry or veterinary medicine, which order or
prescription shall be dated and shall contain the name of the person for whom
prescribed, or, if ordered by a practitioner of veterinary medicine, shall
state the kind of animal for which ordered and shall be signed by the person
giving the prescription or order.
      (2)   The written order or prescription shall be permanently retained on
file by the person, firm or corporation who shall compound or dispense the
article ordered or prescribed, and it shall not be again compounded or
dispensed, except upon the written order of the original prescriber for each
and every subsequent compounding or dispensing.
      (3)   No copy or duplicate of the order or prescription shall be made or
delivered to any person, but the original shall at all times be open to
inspection by the prescriber and property authorized officers of the law.
      (4)   The provisions herein shall not apply to preparations containing
opium, morphine, codeine, heroin or any salt or compound of the foregoing
substances, and recommended and sold in good faith if each bottle or package
which is accompanied by specified directions for use, nor to powder or ipecac
and opium, commonly known as Deyer’s powder, nor to liniments or ointments when
plainly labeled “for external use only.”
      (5)   The provisions herein also shall not apply to the sales at
wholesale by jobbers, wholesalers and manufacturers to retail druggist or
qualified physicians or to each other, nor to sales at retail by retail
druggist to regular practitioners of medicine or dentistry, nor the sales made
to manufacturers of proprietary or pharmaceutical preparations for use in the
manufacture of the preparations nor to sales to hospitals, colleges or
scientific or public institutions.
      (6)   All prescriptions mentioned in this section must be filled by
legally registered pharmacists of the state.
(Ord. 2515, passed - -)
      (7)   Any person, firm or corporation found ,guilty of violating any of
the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall
be punished as provided in §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 14-38) (Ord. 2515, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2823, passed - -)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any practitioner of medicine, dentistry or
veterinary medicine to prescribe for the use of any habitual user of the same
any LSD, marijuana, cocaine, heroin, alpha or beta eucaine, opium, morphine or
salt or compound of any of the foregoing substances, or any preparation
containing any of the foregoing substances, or their salts or compounds and it
shall also be unlawful for any practitioner of dentistry to prescribe any of
the foregoing substances for any person not under his or her treatment in the
regular practice of his or her profession, or for any practitioner of
veterinary medicine to prescribe any of the foregoing substances for the use of
any human being. The provisions of this section shall not be construed to
prevent any lawfully authorized practitioner of medicine from prescribing in
good faith for the use of any habitual user of narcotic drugs who is under his
or her professional care, such substances as he or she may deem necessary, for
the purpose of evading the provisions of this article.
(`90 Code, § 14-39)
   (C)   Possession or sale of drug related paraphernalia.
      (1)   “Drug Paraphernalia” means all equipment, products and materials of
any kind which are used or intended for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body, a controlled dangerous substance in violation
of the Oklahoma Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substance Act, 63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et
seq. It includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits used or intended for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which is a
controlled dangerous substance or from which a controlled dangerous substance
can be derived.
         (b)   Kits used or intended for use in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled dangerous substances;
isomerization devices used or intended for use in increasing the potency of any
species of plant which is a controlled dangerous substance;
         (c)   Testing equipment used or intended for the use in identifying or
in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled dangerous
substances; scales and balances used or intended for use in weighing or
measuring controlled dangerous substances.
         (d)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose, used or intended for use in cutting
controlled dangerous substances;
         (e)   Separation gins and sifters used or intended for use in removing
twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining, marijuana;
         (f)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used or
intended for use in compounding controlled dangerous substances;
         (g)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used or
intended for use in packaging small quantities of controlled dangerous
substances;
         (h)   Containers and other objects used or intended for use in
parenterally injecting controlled dangerous substances into the human body;
         (i)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used or intended
for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into the human body;
         (j)   Objects used or intended for use in ingesting inhaling or
otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil into the human
body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipes;
            2.   Chillums;
            3.   Bongs;
            4.   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (2)   Drug paraphernalia - factors used in determining. In determining
whether an object is “drug paraphernalia,” consider, in addition to all other
logically relevant factors, the following:
         (a)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         (b)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act (63 O.S. §§ 2-101
et seq.);
         (c)   The proximity of the object to controlled dangerous substances;
         (d)   The existence of any residue of controlled dangerous substances
on the object;
         (e)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object which
either state directly or imply that the object is to be used for the
consumption of controlled substances;
         (f)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use as an object for the consumption of controlled substances;
         (g)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (h)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products; and
         (i)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or possess drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled dangerous substance in violation of the Uniform
Controlled Dangerous Substances Act (63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq.), except those
persons holding an unrevoked license in the professions of podiatry, dentistry,
medicine, nursing, optometry, osteopathy, veterinary medicine or pharmacy.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver, possess or
manufacture drug paraphernalia knowing it will be used to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled dangerous
substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act (63
O.S. §§ 2-102 et seq.).
      (5)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of an offense and be subject to a fine or not more than $100 including
costs. (Ord. 2257, passed 1- -96)
(Ord. 3160, passed 6-7-05)
§ 14-25 CURFEW.
   (A)   (1)   No child under the age of 16 years shall wander about or be in
or upon any street, alley, park or other public place within the corporate
limits of the city, after midnight on weekdays and to 1:00 a.m. on Sundays,
without being on any lawful business or occupation, unless accompanied at the
time by a parent or guardian, as herein defined.
      (2)   A “parent” is herein defined as either a natural or adopted parent,
and a “guardian” is hereby defined as either a legal guardian or a person
standing in the position of loco parentis of the child, or an adult who is
accompanying the child with the consent of the child’s parents or guardian as
herein defined.
      (3)   Any child wandering about or in or upon any street, alley, park or
other public place within the corporate limits of the city, during the time, as
hereinabove provided, unaccompanied by a parent or guardian, as hereinabove
defined, shall be taken into custody by the police of the city, who shall
determine that if the spirit and letter of the laws of the state and this
section can best be served by taking the child to the child’s home, such shall
be done, or the police officer in whose custody the child is, shall contact the
parent or guardian, if possible, to come and take custody of the child.
      (4)   In the event a parent or guardian should fail to immediately and
within a reasonable time take custody of the child from the police officer, the
parent or guardian shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
      (5)   In the event, in the judgment of the police officer in whose
custody the child is, it would not be for the best interest of the child to
turn the custody of the child to the parent or guardian of the child, the
police officer shall immediately contact the Chief of Police of the city, or
his or her assistant in charge, and if in the judgment of the Chief of Police
or his or her assistant in charge, it would best serve the interest of the
child that proceedings be had in connection with the laws of the state in
connection with dependent, neglected or delinquent children, then the Chief of
Police shall cause the child to be delivered to the custody of the proper
county official and notify immediately the associate district judge of the
county of the action, for further proceedings as may be determined by the
proper officials, as provided by law.
(`90 Code, § 14-41)
   (B)   (1) It is unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to loiter
by remaining idle, by wandering, strolling or playing in or upon the public
streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds,
public places and public buildings, vacant lots or other unsupervised places
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. of the following day,
official city time, provided however, that the provisions of this section do
not apply to a minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an
errand or business directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an
errand or business directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor. Each violation of the
provisions of this section constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   It is unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 18 years to knowingly
permit the minor to loiter by remaining idle, by wandering, strolling or
playing in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks,
playgrounds or other unsupervised places, between the hours of 12:00 midnight
and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, official city time.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (g)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (4)   Each violation of the provisions of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
      (5)   Any parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of a minor violating division (A) above is guilty of a violation.
(`90 Code, § 14-41.1) (Ord. 2961, passed 4-21-92)
   (C)   Any parent or guardian of a child under the age of 16 years knowingly
permitting the child to wander about or be in or upon any street, alley, park
or other public place within the corporate limits of the city, unaccompanied by
a parent or guardian, during the hours as herein provided, and the child not
being upon any lawful business or occupation, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense.
(`90 Code, § 14-42)
   (D)   It is further provided that the Chief of Police of the city shall keep
or cause to be kept a confidential record of any proceedings under this section
insofar as children are concerned, which record shall not be available for
public inspection and shall be kept confidential and revealed only to the
associate district judge of the county and the records shall at all times be
available to the County Judge.
(`90 Code, § 14-43)
   (E)   (1)   This section is enacted for the purpose of assisting in the
enforcement of the laws and general public policy, adopted in the state in
regard to dependent and neglected and delinquent children and for the
protection of children of tender years, and the sections shall be enforced in
accordance with the laws and public policy of the state, and shall not be
considered or enforced as punishment for a child under the age of 16 years, but
for the protection and care and assistance to the children, as provided by the
laws of the state.
      (2)   The police of the city are by this section authorized and directed
to aid and assist, within the corporate limits of the city, in the enforcement
of all the laws of the state, in regard to dependent and neglected and
delinquent children. The police of the city are further directed to enforce,
within the corporate limits of the city, all laws of the state, in regard to
contributing to the delinquency of minors.
(`90 Code, § 14-44)
ARTICLE 3: OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
§ 14-40 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person in the city shall wilfully disturb the peace and quiet of the city
or of any family, neighborhood or person or engage in rude or indecent
behavior, offensive or disorderly conduct, obscene, profane, indecent or
offensive language, noisy or boisterous talk or disorderly conduct.
(`90 Code, § 14-47)
§ 14-41 PRIZE FIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city to engage or
be concerned in any fight or contention in the nature of a prize fight between
any two or more persons, as principals, umpire, trainer, backer, assistant,
second or reporter or to be present at the same.
(`90 Code, § 14-48)
§ 14-42 FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city to quarrel or
fight or to use any obscene, profane, menacing or threatening language; or to
wilfully disturb the peace by traducing or assaulting or challenging to fight
another or others; or by rioting or discharging fire arms or by ringing or
beating upon bells or other sound-producing substances, or otherwise producing
loud, disagreeable noises; or by any rude behavior to interrupt, molest or
disturb the peace and quiet of the city or any of the inhabitants thereof.
(`90 Code, § 14-49)
§ 14-43 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city
to wilfully disturb, molest or interrupt any literary society, school or any
other society of whatever name or denomination, formed for the intellectual or
social improvement of its members; or to wilfully disturb, molest or interrupt
any religious society or any member thereof or any persons when meeting or met
together for religious worship; or to willfully disturb, molest or interrupt
any board of election or political meeting or any other lawful assembly of
people.
(`90 Code, § 14-50)
§ 14-44 DISTURBING RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLIES.
   No person in the city shall willfully disquiet, disturb or interrupt any
congregation or assembly of people met together for religious worship or as
auditors or spectators at any public entertainment, or any other purpose, by
making any unnecessary noise, or by any disorderly conduct or other means.
(`90 Code, § 14-51)
§ 14-45 FIGHTING; UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   No person in the city shall engage in any affray or assembly for any
unlawful purpose, nor shall any persons gather together and conduct themselves
in a disorderly, boisterous, riotous or threatening manner and a refusal of any
persons so gathered together to disperse when commanded to do so by any
magistrate, peace officer or any police officer, shall subject the person to
the penalties prescribed by this chapter.
(`90 Code, § 14-52)
§ 14-46 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall within the city discharge any gun, pistol or other
firearm. This section shall not apply to any person using a shotgun for duck
hunting at any city-owned or operated recreational facility under permit from
the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the use of shotguns in A-1 districts
and/or firearms used in an indoor firing range in a properly zoned district.
This section shall not apply to a turkey shoot, as defined below, and for which
a city permit has been issued.
   (C)   Division (A) shall not apply to the use of shotguns in an A-2 (Urban
Agricultural) Zone for the purpose of hunting waterfowl. Such use will be
permitted as follows:
      (1)   On parcels of land five acres in size or greater that are privately
owned with the permission of the property owner;
      (2)   Any shooting must occur at least 200 feet from any building and
from any land not owned by that landowner;
      (3)   Meet all other requirements under Oklahoma law for the discharge of
a shotgun; and
      (4)   Are authorized by a permit issued by the Chief of Police or
designate, indicating the type and manner of use, renewable annually.
(`90 Code, § 14-53) (Ord. 2664, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2838, passed - -; Am. Ord.
2911, passed 3-6-90; Am. Ord. 3242, passed 9-4-12)
§ 14-47 TURKEY SHOOT; TARGET SHOOTING.
   (A)   An outdoor area where shotguns are used to shoot moving clay pigeons
and/or fixed targets for turkeys, hams or other prizes.
(`90 Code, § 14-53.1)
   (B)   The Chief of Police and/or his or her designee shall have the
authority to approve and have a permit issued by the City Clerk for a turkey
shoot within the city limits having the following restrictions and fees.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued within 300 feet of a family dwelling
other than the permit applicant.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued within 100 feet of a public road.
      (3)   Fees shall be as set out in the fee schedule at the end of this
code of ordinances.
(`90 Code, § 14-53.2) (Ord. 2911, passed 3-6-90)
§ 14-48 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person in the city shall carry concealed any pistol, revolver, Bowie
knife, slingshot, brass knuckles or other dangerous or deadly weapon. This
section shall not apply to federal, state, county or city law enforcement
officers and except as authorized by the provisions of the Oklahoma Self-
Defense Act, 21 O.S. §§ 1 et seq., or as may otherwise be provided by law.
(`90 Code, § 14-54) (Ord. 2664, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2838, passed - -; Am. Ord.
2911, passed 3-6-90)
§ 14-49 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   No person shall commit an assault or offer or attempt, with force or
violence, to do bodily hurt or injury to another or commit any battery on the
person of another.
(`90 Code, § 14-55)
§ 14-50 DEFACING BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break, mark, scratch, cut or
otherwise deface or injure any building, awning or other thing connected with
any building, or to remove, throw or lay down or deface any fence enclosing, or
partly enclosing, any lot or parcel of ground owned or occupied by another
within the corporate limits of the city.
(`90 Code, § 14-56)
§ 14-51 LITTERING.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a vehicle shall be liable pursuant to this
section for any act of throwing, dropping, depositing or otherwise placing any
litter from his or her vehicle upon highways, roads or public property unless
any other person in the vehicle admits to or is identified as having committed
the act. Any person who admits to or is identified as having committed the act
shall be liable for the act.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of division (A)(1)
above shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100. In lieu of the fine,
the Court may direct the person to pick up and remove litter upon the highways,
roads or public property. The dates, time and location of the activity shall be
scheduled by the Court in a manner as not to interfere with the employment or
family responsibilities of the person.
      (3)   As used in this section, “litter” means any flaming or glowing
substances, except those which by law may be placed upon highway rights-of-way,
any substance which may cause a fire, any bottles, cans, trash, garbage or
debris of any kind. As used in this section, “litter” shall not include trash,
garbage or debris placed beside a public road for collection by a garbage or
collection by a garbage or collection agency, or deposited upon or within
public property designated by the state or by any of its agencies or political
subdivisions as an appropriate place for the deposits if the person making the
deposit is authorized to use the property for the purpose.
(`90 Code, § 14-56.1) (Ord. 2880, passed 6-6-89)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who deliberately places, throws, drops, deposits or
discards any garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, refuse, debris or other
deleterious substance an any public property or on any private property of
another without consent shall be guilty of a misdemeanor offense.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of division (B)(1)
above shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100, plus court costs, and
each day that an act or a violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a
violation of this section, and be construed as a separate offense.
      (3)   In addition to the penalty prescribed by division (B)(2) above, the
Court may direct the person to make restitution to the property owner affected;
to remove and properly dispose of garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, refuse or
debris from the property; to pick up, remove and properly dispose of garbage,
trash, waste, rubbish, refuse, debris and other nonhazardous deleterious
substances from public property; or any combination of the foregoing which the
court, in its discretion, deems appropriate. The dates, times and locations of
the activities shall be scheduled by the Chief of Police pursuant to the order
of the Court in a manner as not to interfere with the employment or family
responsibilities of the person.
      (4)   Any full time peace officer in municipal law enforcement and any
other employee of the city having peace officer authority or code enforcement
authority upon investigation of the disposal of any substance in violation of
this section which contains three or more items bearing a common address in a
form which tends to identify the latest owner of the items shall create a
rebuttable presumption that all competent persons residing at the address
committed the unlawful act.
(`90 Code, § 14-57) (Ord. 2971, passed 4-6-93)
§ 14-52 DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully or wantonly in any way injure or destroy any
public or private property.
(`90 Code, § 14-58)
§ 14-53 TAMPERING WITH WATER METERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to alter or
tamper with a water meter which has been installed for the purpose of measuring
the consumption of city water (or to install any hose, pipe or any other device
for the purpose of receiving unmetered water) a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (B)   (1)   It shall not be considered a violation of this section to turn
off or on an unsealed valve, which valve has been installed immediately
adjacent to a water meter for the purpose of shutting off or turning on the
flow of water.
      (2)   The only person or persons authorized to install, remove, repair,
maintain or alter a water meter shall be the personnel of the Water Department.
      (3)   A licensed plumber may install a water meter, but only after the
applicable permit has been obtained from the city.
(`90 Code, § 14-58.A) (Ord. 2735, passed 3-6-84)
§ 14-54 ILLEGAL ENTRANCE.
   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into
an area or structure on the property, whether the property, area or structure
is public or private, when the entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or
otherwise or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when the
entrance is in line of duty or with the expressed or tacit consent of the owner
or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance.
(`90 Code, § 14-58.1) (Ord. 2942, passed 4-2-91)
§ 14-55 PETIT LARCENY.
   Any person who shall take, steal and carry away or embezzle any money or
personal property of another under the value of $500 shall be deemed guilty of
an offense.
(`90 Code, § 14-59) (Ord. 3087, passed 8-21-01)
§ 14-56 BUYING FROM MINORS.
   Any person who shall buy or trade or exchange any goods, wares or
merchandise, tools or other personal property under the value of $20, from any
minor, without the written consent of a parent or guardian of the minor, shall
be deemed guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 14-60)
§ 14-57 INJURING TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, break or in any way injure or
destroy any tree planted, standing or growing by natural growth or artificial
growth or otherwise upon any streets, avenues, alleys, parks or public places
within the limits of the city.
(`90 Code, § 14-61)
§ 14-58 REMOVING MARKERS.
   No person shall destroy or remove any bench mark, monument stone, section
corner stone or quarter section stone in the city.
(`90 Code, § 14-62)
§ 14-59 CAMPING IN PARKS; PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to encamp or lodge in any
public or private park within the city, without first having obtained
permission from the Chief of Police.
(`90 Code, § 14-63)
§ 14-60 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Trespasses prohibited. It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person, firm or corporation to commit a trespass within this city upon either
public or private property.
   (B)   Specific trespasses enumerated. Any of the following acts by any
person, firm or corporation shall be deemed a violation of this section.
      (1)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another in
violation of a notice exhibited thereon prohibiting entry at specified times;
      (2)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof;
      (3)   An entry upon any public property, including parks or parking
areas, in violation of a notice exhibited thereat prohibiting entry at
specified times;
      (4)   An entry upon any public property in violation of any notice,
warning or protest given orally or in writing by a city official;
      (5)   If on the property of another, or upon public property, lawfully, a
failure or refusal to depart in case of being requested to so depart orally or
written, by any owner or occupant, or by a city official; or
      (6)   An entry upon any portion of a public park during regular hours
where such entry is specifically prohibited or where the entry involves the use
of any vehicle, equipment or device where such use is specifically prohibited,
or where the entry otherwise involves acts or conduct which is specifically
prohibited.
   (C)   Content of notice to be exhibited. For purposes of constituting a
violation of this section, the exhibited notice required under (B)(1) and (B)
(3) and division (F) of this section shall meet the following criteria:
      (1)   The notice shall be plainly posted in a place or places conspicuous
to those who would enter the property;
      (2)   The notice shall be legible so as to afford reasonable warning
prior to the commission of a trespass; and
      (3)   If upon property to which the public is invited at least some part
of the day, the notice shall clearly specify the days and times of day entry is
prohibited, and further specify that entry at such times constitutes a
punishable offense under this chapter.
   (D)   Exceptions. Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) shall not apply to agents,
servants or employees of property owners or occupants where such agents,
servants or employees have been duly authorized entry upon posted property.
   (E)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
division (A) by committing any of the acts enumerated in division (B) shall be
guilty of an offense and fined up to $240, including costs.
   (F)   (1)   All terrain vehicle (ATV), off-road vehicle trespass prohibited.
No person, firm, or corporations shall use, park, leave or place any all
terrain vehicles or off-road vehicles upon any public or private property where
such use is specifically prohibited or where the entry otherwise involves acts
or conduct which is specifically prohibited.
      (2)   Vehicular trespass prohibited. No person, firm or corporation shall
park, leave or place any vehicle upon any public or private property without
the owner’s consent, except where such property is provided for public parking
and the use for such parking is not restricted by proper notice.
   (G)   Penalties for vehicular trespass.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
division (F) shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction therefor shall
be fined in an amount up to $240, including costs.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
division (F) shall have the vehicle so parked, left or placed subject to
impoundment upon complaint of the property owner or occupant, and shall be
wholly responsible for payment of towage and/or storage charges.
(Ord. 3133, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 3170, passed 12-20-05)
ARTICLE 4: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
§ 14-70 RESISTING OR IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   No person in the city shall act in a riotous, disorderly manner, resist or
oppose any officer in the discharge of his or her duty or falsely personate an
officer of the city.
(`90 Code, § 14-64)
§ 14-71 RESISTING ARREST; ESCAPE FROM CUSTODY.
   No person shall resist any arrest by any officer of the city, or escape,
attempt to escape or assist any other person to escape or attempt to escape,
from the custody of any officer of the city, or from confinement, imprisonment
or custody, imposed by the officers or authorities of the city.
(`90 Code, § 14-65)
§ 14-72 REFUSAL TO ASSIST OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city
who shall be at any time called upon by the Chief of Police, a police officer
or other ministerial officer in the discharge of his or her official duty to
refuse, neglect or delay to apprehend and detain or refuse to assist in
apprehending and detaining any person or persons charged with or convicted of
any criminal offenses against any of the ordinances, rules or laws in force and
effect in the city, or refuse to assist to secure the offenders when
apprehended or refuse to assist to convey the offenders to prison or other
place of security as required by the officers in a lawful manner.
(`90 Code, § 14-66)
§ 14-73 OFFICER FAILURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer of the city to wilfully, wantonly or
knowingly neglect, refuse or fail to discharge any of the duties required of
him or her by any ordinance of the city.
(`90 Code, § 14-67)
§ 14-74 BREAKING LOCKS ON JAILS.
   No person in the city shall break any lock, hinge or fastening of any door
or any other part of any jail or public building in the city, or in any way
interfere or tamper with the same.
(`90 Code, § 14-68)
ARTICLE 5: OFFENSES COMMITTED BY JUVENILES
§ 14-85 PROCEDURES FOR RELEASE.
   (A)   Whenever a child is taken into custody by the Police Department, the
child shall be detained or released to the custody of his or her parent,
guardian, attorney or custodian in accordance with state statutes for the
detention or release of juveniles, but in no case shall a child under the age
of 18 years of age be detained in the city jail.
   (B)   If a child under the age of 18 years of age is arrested for an offense
that would be a felony if the child were an adult, the child shall be
immediately transferred to the County Jail and detained or released in
accordance with applicable state law.
   (C)   (1)   If a child under the age of 18 years of age is arrested for an
offense that would be a non- traffic related misdemeanor if the child were an
adult, or is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs, the child
shall be released to the custody of his or her parent, guardian, attorney or
custodian upon the written promise of the parent, guardian, attorney or
custodian to bring the child before the appropriate court or authorities at the
time fixed.
      (2)   If a parent, guardian, attorney or custodian cannot be located
after diligent effort, the child may be detained in the County Jail or other
court-approved detention center in accordance with state law for the detention
of juveniles, but in no case shall the child be held in the city jail.
   (D)   If a child under the age of 18 years of age is arrested for or issued
a traffic citation, the child shall be subject to the same fine as though the
child were an adult, except in no case shall a child be detained in the city
jail or any other jail facility for the violation of a traffic ordinance.
(`90 Code, § 14-71) (Ord. 2707, passed 7-6-82)
§ 14-86 REVIEW OF APPLICABLE PROCEDURES.
   All members of the Police Department shall read, become familiar with and
periodically review the applicable state law for the detention and release of
juveniles, currently 10 O.S. § 7003-2.1.
(`90 Code, § 14-72) (Ord. 2707, passed 7-6-82)
ARTICLE 6: LOUD NOISES
§ 14-100 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to prevent undue interference with a person’s
quiet enjoyment of his or her premises, to prohibit the production, creation,
generation or amplification of any excessive noise or sound from motor vehicles
when the vehicles are being driven or parked on public property, public ways or
public rights-of-way and to preserve the peace and quiet of the city.
(`90 Code, § 14-80) (Ord. 2964, passed 8-18-92)
§ 14-101 SCOPE.
   The use of all land and any building or portion of a lot or area within any
building, public property, public ways or public rights-of-way within the city
shall be used only in conformity with the provisions of this article.
(`90 Code, § 14-81) (Ord. 2964, passed 8-18-92)
§ 14-102 UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued any
excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others, within the limits of the city.
(`90 Code, § 14-82) (Ord. 2964, passed 8-18-92)
§ 14-103 NOISE ENUMERATED.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of §
14-102, but shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile,
motorcycle, streetcar other vehicle on any street or public place of the city,
except as a danger warning, the creation by means of any signaling device or
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound, the sounding of any device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time, the use of any signaling device,
except one operated by hand or electricity, the use of any horn, whistle or
other device operated by engine exhaust, and the use of any signaling device
when traffic is for any reason held up;
   (B)   The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound in a manner as to disturb the
peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with
louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person or
persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in which the machine or device
is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto; (The operation of any set,
instrument, phonograph, machine or device between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and
7:00 a.m. in a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from
the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.)
   (C)   The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound
amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound
from any building, structure or other stationary source which is cast upon the
public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the
attention of the public to any building or structure;
   (D)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public
streets, particularly between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any
time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons
in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any
persons in the vicinity;
   (E)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or long-
continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the
vicinity;
   (F)   The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam whistle attached
to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop
work or as a warning of fire or danger or upon request of property city
authorities;
   (G)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal- combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle, except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
   (H)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so
loaded or in a manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise;
   (I)   The creation of aloud and excessive noise in connection with loading
or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates
and containers;
   (J)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair
of any building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on
weekdays, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health
and safety, and then only with a permit from the Building Inspector, which
permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while the
emergency continues and which permit may be renewed for period of three days or
less while the emergency continues; (If the Building Inspector should determine
that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection
demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of streets
and highways within the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m., and if he or she
shall further determine that loss or inconvenience would result to any part in
interest, he or she may grant permission for the work to be done within the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., upon application being made at the time the
permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of the work.)
   (K)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church or court while the same is in use, or
adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the workings of
the institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital,
provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets indicating that the
same is a school, hospital or court street;
   (L)   The shouting and crying of itinerant vendors which disturbs the peace
and quiet of the neighborhood;
   (M) The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of
attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show or sale;
and/or
   (N)   The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any
internal combustion engine the operation of which causes noise due to the
explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from the blower or fan
is muffled and the engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to
deaden the noise.
(`90 Code, § 14-83) (Ord. 2964, passed 8-18-92)
§ 14-104 LOUD NOISES FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle within the
city which produces, creates, generates, amplifies, continues or causes to be
produced, created, generated or amplified any excessive noise or sound, when
the vehicle is being driven or is parked on public property, public ways or
public rights-of-ways. For the purpose of this section, the term “excessive
noise” shall mean noise or sound which injures or endangers the comfort,
repose, peace, safety or health of a human being, or annoys or disturbs a
reasonable person and which is produced, created, generated or amplified by
radios, stereos, television equipment, electronic audio equipment, musical
instruments and similar devices which is plainly audible to any person 50 feet
or more from the motor vehicle which produces, creates, generates, amplifies
continues or causes to be produced, created, generated or amplified the
excessive noise or sound and the term “plainly audible” means any person can
hear the content of the sound produced by the noise source including but not
limited to musical rhythms, spoken words and vocal sounds.
(`90 Code, § 14-84) (Ord. 2964, passed 8-18-92)
ARTICLE 7: PREVENTION OF YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
§ 14-115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as 21
years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE. A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost
for the purpose of promoting the product.
   SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
   TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver license or other government-
issued photo identification.
   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver license or other government-issued photo identification.
(Ord. 3097, passed 12-18-01; Am. Ord. 3341, passed 10-6-20)
§ 14-116 FURNISHING OR SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to sell or furnish
in any manner any tobacco product to another person who is under 21 years of
age or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product on behalf of any such
person. Provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for an employee under
21 years of age to handle tobacco products when required in the performance of
the employee’s duties.
   (B)   Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products
shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient if any
ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective
purchaser may be under 21 years of age. If an individual engaged in the sale or
distribution of tobacco products has demanded proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient who is not under 21 years of age, the failure to
subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a violation of this
division (B) of this section.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) or (B) of this
section shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $90.00, excluding costs and assessments, for the first
offense within a one-year period; not more than $150.00, excluding costs and
assessments, for the second offense within a one-year period; and not more than
$200.00, excluding costs and assessments, for a third and subsequent offenses
within a one-year period.
   (D)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found guilty
of such violation if such person proves that:
      (1)   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product
presented a driver license or other government-issued photo identification
purporting to establish that such individual was 21 years of age or older, and
      (2)   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any person cited
for a violation of this section if such person failed to exercise reasonable
diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture appearing
on the driver license or other government-issued photo identification was that
of the individual who presented it. The availability of the defense described
in this subsection does not affect the availability of any other defense under
any other provision of law.
   (E)   If the sale is made by an employee of the owner of a store at which
tobacco products are sold at retail, the employee shall be guilty of the
violation and shall be subject to the fine.
   (F)   Upon failure of the employee to pay the fine within 90 days of the day
of the assessment of such fine, the Clerk of the Municipal Court shall notify
the Department of Public Safety and the Department shall suspend or not issue a
driver’s license to the employee until proof of payment has been furnished to
the Department of Public Safety.
   (G)   For purposes of determining the liability of a person controlling
franchises or business operations in multiple locations for any violation of
divisions (A) or (B) of this section, each individual franchise or business
location shall be deemed a separate entity.
(Ord. 3097, passed 12-18-01; Am. Ord. 3341, passed 10-6-20)
§ 14-117 RECEIPT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS BY MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person who is under 21
years of age to purchase, accept receipt of or have in their possession a
tobacco product, or to present or offer to any person any purported proof of
age which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own for the purpose
of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product. Provided, however, that it
shall not be unlawful for such a person to handle such tobacco product when
required in the performance of such person’s duties.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) of this section
shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $90.00, excluding costs and assessments, for a first offense
within a one-year period, and a fine or not more than $150.00, excluding costs
and assessments, for a second or subsequent offense within a one-year period.
Upon failure of the individual to pay any fine within 90 days of the day of
such fine, the Clerk of the Municipal Court shall notify the Department of
Public Safety and the Department shall suspend or not issue a driver’s license
to the individual until proof of payment has been furnished to the Department
of Public Safety.
(Ord. 3097, passed 12-18-01; Am. Ord. 3341, passed 10-6-20)
§ 14-118 DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCT SAMPLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to distribute
tobacco product samples to any person under 21 years of age.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, no person shall
distribute tobacco product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk or park
that is within 300 feet of any playground, school or other facility when the
facility is being used primarily by persons under 21 years of age.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or retail store to display or
offer for sale tobacco products in any manner that allows public access to the
tobacco product without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco
product or an employee or owner of the store. The provisions of this division
shall not apply to a retail store which does not admit into the store person
under the age of 21 years of age.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of divisions (A) or (B) of this
section shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $90.00, excluding costs and assessments, for the first
offense within a one-year period; not more than $150.00, excluding costs and
assessments, for the second offense within a one-year period; and not more than
$200.00, excluding costs and assessments, for a third or subsequent offense
within a one-year period.
   (D)   Upon failure of the individual to pay any fine within 90 days of the
assessment of such fine, the Clerk of the Municipal Court shall notify the
Department of Public Safety, and the Department shall suspend or not issue a
driver’s license to the individual until proof of payment has been furnished to
the Department of Public Safety.
(Ord. 3097, passed 12-18-01; Am. Ord. 3225, passed 9-20-11; Am. Ord. 3341,
passed 10-6-20)
§ 14-119 SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS EXCEPT IN ORIGINAL SEALED PACKAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to sell cigarettes except
in the original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) of this section
shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine
of $200.00, excluding costs and assessments, for each offense.
(Ord. 3097, passed 12-18-01)
§ 14-120 RESTRICTIONS ON MANNER OF ENFORCEMENT.
   Persons under 21 years of age may be enlisted by any law enforcement agency
to assist in enforcement of §§
14-115 through
14-120 of this article. Provided, however, that such persons may be used to
test compliance only if written parental consent has been provided and the
testing is conducted under the direct supervision of the Alcoholic Beverage
Laws Enforcement (“ABLE”) Commission or conducted by another law enforcement
agency if such agency has given written notice to the ABLE Commission in the
manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission. Provided, however, that this section
shall not apply to the use of persons under 21 years of age to test compliance
if the compliance test is being conducted by or on behalf of a retailer of
tobacco products, as defined in 68 O.S. § 301, at any location the retailer of
cigarettes is authorized to sell cigarettes.
(Ord. 3097, passed 12-18-01; Am. Ord. 3341, passed 10-6-20)
ARTICLE 8: PREVENTION OF TRUANCY WITHIN THE GUTHRIE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM
§ 14.130 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian, or other person having custody
of a child who is over the age of five years, and under the age of 18 years, to
neglect or refuse to cause or compel such child to attend and comply with the
rules of some public, private or other school, unless other means of education
are provided for the full term the schools of the district are in session or
the child is excused as provided in this section. One-half day of kindergarten
shall be required of all children five years of age or older unless the child
is excused from kindergarten attendance as provided in this section. A child
who is five years of age shall be excused from kindergarten attendance until
the next school year if a parent, guardian, or other person having custody of
the child notifies the superintendent of the district where the child is a
resident by certified mail prior to enrollment in kindergarten, or at any time
during the first school year that the child is required to attend kindergarten
pursuant to this section, of election to withhold the child from kindergarten
until the next school year after the child is six years of age.
(Ord. 3318, passed 8-20-19)
Statutory reference:
   Neglect or refusal to compel child to attend school, see 70 O.S. § 10-105
§ 14.131 REFUSAL OF MINOR TO ATTEND SCHOOL.
   It shall be unlawful for any child who is over the age of 12 years and under
the age of 18 years, and who has not finished four years of high school work,
to neglect or refuse to attend and comply with the rules of some public,
private or other school, or receive an education by other means for the full
tenn the schools of the district are in session.
(Ord. 3318, passed 8-20-19)
§ 14.132 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of this
article:
   (A)   Mental or physical disability. If any child is prevented from
attending school by reason of mental or physical disability, to be determined
by the board of education of the district upon a certificate of the school
physician or public health physician, or, if no such physician is available, a
duly licensed and practicing physician;
   (B)   Emergency situation. If any child is excused from attendance at
school, due to an emergency, by the principal teacher of the school in which
such child is enrolled, at the request of the parent, guardian, custodian or
other person having control of such child;
   (C)   Excused by school and parent. If any child who has attained his or her
sixteenth birthday is excused from attending school by written, joint agreement
between:
      (1)   The school administrator of the school district where the child
attends school, and
      (2)   The parent, guardian or custodian of the child. Provided, further,
that no child shall be excused from attending school by such joint agreement
between a school administrator and the parent, guardian or custodian of the
child unless and until it has been determined that such action is for the best
interest of the child and/or the community, and that said child shall
thereafter be under the supervision of the parent, guardian or custodian until
the child has reached the age of 18 years;
   (D)   Observing religious holy days. If any child is excused from attending
school for the purpose of observing religious holy days if before the absence,
the parent, guardian, or person having custody or control of the student
submits a written request for the excused absence. The school district shall
excuse a student pursuant to this subsection for the days on which the
religious holy days are observed and for the days on which the student must
travel to and from the site where the student will observe the holy days.
(Ord. 3318, passed 8-20-19)
§ 14.133 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   It shall be the duty of the attendance officer to enforce the provisions of
this section. In the prosecution of a parent, guardian, or other person having
custody of a child for violation of any provision of this section, it shall be
an affirmative defense that the parent, guardian, or other person having
custody of the child has made substantial and reasonable efforts to comply with
the compulsory attendance requirements of this section but is unable to cause
the child to attend school. If the court determines the affirmative defense is
valid, it shall dismiss the complaint against the parent, guardian, or other
person having custody of the child and shall notify the school attendance
officer who shall refer the child to the district attorney for the county in
which the child resides for the filing of a Child in Need of Supervision
petition against the child pursuant to the Oklahoma Juvenile Code.
(Ord. 3318, passed 8-20-19)
§ 14.134 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any parent, guardian, custodian, child or other person violating any
of the provisions of this section, upon conviction, shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, a fine not to exceed $50;
      (2)   For the second offense, a fine not to exceed $100;
      (3)   For the third or subsequent offense, a fine not to exceed $250.
   (B)   Each day the child remains out of school after the oral and documented
or written warning has been given to the parent, guardian, custodian, child or
other person or the child has been ordered to school by the juvenile court
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3318, passed 8-20-19)
§ 14.135 ADMISSION OF RECORDS.
   At the trial of any person charged with violating the provisions of this
section, the attendance records of the child or ward may be presented in court
by any authorized employee of the school district.
(Ord. 3318, passed 8-20-19)
§ 14-150 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
offense, and upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this code. Each
day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 14-75)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
CHAPTER 15: PARKS AND RECREATION
Article 1: Administration and Control
   
15-1.   Council authority to make rules
   
15-2.   Fees to be determined
Article 2: Lake Guthrie and Liberty Lake
   
15-15.   Use of facilities; permits and fees
   
15-16.   Fees established
   
15-17.   Possession of permit required; general rules
Article 3: Park Rules
   
15-30.   Establishing hours
   
15-31.   Parking prohibited
   
15-32.   Splash pad rules
Article 4: Travel Over Guthrie Lake Dam
   
15-45.   Speed limits
   
15-46.   Enforcement
Article 5: Guthrie Parks and Urban Forestry Board
   
15-60.   Creation and membership
   
15-61.   Organization
   
15-62.   Powers and duties
   
15-75.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: ADMINISTRATION AND CONTROL
§ 15-1 COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO MAKE RULES.
   The City Council or Guthrie Parks Board shall promulgate, invoke, create,
amend and enforce rules, regulations and other requirements, as it deems
necessary or expedient in connection with fishing, fishing privileges, swimming
and the use of all other recreational facilities owned or operated by the city.
(`90 Code, § 15-1) (Am. Ord. 3229, passed 3-20-12)
§ 15-2 FEES TO BE DETERMINED.
   The city shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
recreational privileges on any property or facility for recreational purpose
owned or operated by the city.
(`90 Code, § 15-2) (Am. Ord. 3229, passed 3-20-12)
ARTICLE 2: LAKE GUTHRIE AND LIBERTY LAKE
§ 15-15 USE OF FACILITIES; PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use any recreational facilities on either Lake
Guthrie or Liberty Lake without first having obtained a permit and having paid
the fee therefor. Recreational facilities shall include all land around the
lakes, campsites, trails, boat ramps, picnic areas, lakes themselves, docks,
bank, and the like. All facilities must be in compliance with the rules and
regulations in connection therewith adopted by the City Council. Fees shall not
be required for the enclosed area designated as Mitchell Park or for
individuals sitting in their motor vehicle alongside Guthrie Lake, provided
they are not fishing out of the vehicle.
   (B)   Division (A) applies to the present rules and regulations adopted as
may be changed from time to time.
(`90 Code, § 15-3) (Ord. 2404, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3104, passed 7-16-02; Am.
Ord. 3229, passed 3-20-12)
§ 15-16 FEES ESTABLISHED.
   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees by resolution.
(`90 Code, § 15-4) (Ord. 2633, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3104, passed 7-16-02; Am.
Ord. 3229, passed 3-20-12)
§ 15-17 POSSESSION OF PERMIT REQUIRED; GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   (1)   Each person using any of the recreational facilities on either
lake shall have on his or her person a proper paid permit therefor which must
be exhibited to a game ranger or like employee or any police officer of the
city upon request.
      (2)   Failure to have the permit in the possession of the person
currently using the facility or failure to exhibit the permit to a game ranger
or lake employee or police officer of the city upon request shall be an offense
and upon conviction thereof, the person shall be punished as provided herein.
   (B)   The general rules for use of either Guthrie Lake or Liberty Lake,
which include the possession and/or purchase of a daily or annual permit prior
to using any lake facilities shall be determined by the Parks Board or City
Council and placed at a location available to the public. State laws shall also
be in effect in any instance regarding fishing requirements, rules and
regulations not specifically addressed by Guthrie Lake or Liberty Lake rules.
   (C)   Authority for the enforcement of these rules is delegated to the
respective lake rangers and/or police officers, as supervised and approved by
the City Manager or his or her designee.
(`90 Code, § 15-5) (Ord. 2604, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2823, passed - -; Am. Ord.
2970, passed 4-6-93; Am. Ord. 3074, passed 10-17-00; Am. Ord. 3104, passed 7-
16-02; Am. Ord. 3195, passed 6-3-08; Am. Ord. 3196, passed 7-15-08; Am. Ord.
3229, passed 3-20-12)
ARTICLE 3: PARK RULES
§ 15-30 ESTABLISHING HOURS.
   (A)   Lions Park, Banner Park, and Ritzhaupt Park are hereby deemed to be
closed from 10:30 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. each night and Owen Field, Highland Park,
and Mineral Wells Park all within the corporate limits of the city, shall all
be deemed closed each night from midnight to 6:00 a.m. from public or private
use thereof, unless special permission be granted by the Mayor or City Manager.
   (B)   If anyone shall enter upon or be in Lions Park, Banner Park, or
Ritzhaupt Park after 10:30 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m. or enter upon or be in
Owen Field, Highland Park, and Mineral Wells Park after 12:00 a.m. and prior to
6:00 a.m. without special permission from the Mayor or City Manager, they shall
be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction, shall be punished as
provided in the Guthrie City Code.
(Ord. 3328, passed 2-18-20)
§ 15-31 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking in and adjacent to any city park are for park users only. Overnight
parking, park and ride use, or residential parking will not be allowed.
(Ord. 3328, passed 2-18-20)
§ 15-32 SPLASH PAD RULES.
   Splash pad rules for Banner Park and future splash pad locations, inclusive
of but not limited to:
   (A)   Pets, food, glass objects, towels, and smoking are not permitted.
   (B)   Bikes, skateboards, roller-skates/blades must remain on hard surface
walking path.
   (C)   Swim diapers required.
   (D)   Children under 12 must be accompanied by an adult.
   (E)   No life guard on duty.
(Ord. 3328, passed 2-18-20)
ARTICLE 4: TRAVEL OVER GUTHRIE LAKE DAM
§ 15-45 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   By reason of the fact that it is dangerous to travel across the dam at
Guthrie Lake on the roadway provided therefor, at a speed greater than 30 mph,
there is hereby established a speed limit for motor vehicles of all types,
including motorcycles, of 30 mph on the roadway constructed across the dam at
Guthrie Lake.
   (B)   Anyone driving a motor vehicle of any description whatsoever,
including motorcycles, on the roadway located on the dam at Guthrie Lake at a
speed in excess of 30 mph is hereby declared to be guilty of an offense.
   (C)   Anyone found guilty of driving a motor vehicle of any description
whatsoever, including motorcycles, on the roadway on the dam at Guthrie Lake at
a speed in excess of 30 mph shall be punishable as provided in this Code of
Ordinances.
(`90 Code, § 15-8) (Ord. 2546, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2823, passed - -; Am. Ord.
3171, passed 2-21-06; Am. Ord. 3229, passed 3-20-12)
§ 15-46 ENFORCEMENT.
   All police officers of the city, including the custodian of the lake, if he
or she has police commission, shall have the authority to enforce this article.
(`90 Code, § 15-9) (Ord. 2546, passed - -; Am. Ord. 3171, passed 2-21-06; Am.
Ord. 3229, passed 3-20-12)
ARTICLE 5: GUTHRIE PARKS AND URBAN FORESTRY BOARD
§ 15-60 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   The Guthrie Parks and Urban Forestry Board is hereby established, composed
of seven appointed members who are city residents, with appointments made by
the Mayor and approved by the City Council. Members serve two-year staggered
terms. Terms shall expire at the first regular City Council meeting in June.
The City Manager, or a designated representative, acts as an ex officio, non-
voting member. Members shall serve without compensation and are required to
take an oath of office. Vacancies on the Board shall be filled for the balance
of the unexpired term in the same manner as provided in this section.
(Ord. 3020, passed 6-3-97; Am. Ord. 3102, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord. 3157, passed
4-5-05; Am. Ord. 3174, passed 3-21-06; Am. Ord. 3229, passed 3-20-12; Am. Ord.
3408, passed 4-16-24)
§ 15-61 ORGANIZATION.
   The Board shall elect its Chair, Vice-Chair, Secretary, and Assistant
Secretary from among its members. A quorum requires four members. The Board may
create committees for specific purposes. Decisions require a majority vote of
the full Board. Regular and special meetings are to be held as necessary,
adhering to the Board's established procedural rules.
(Ord. 3020, passed 6-3-97; Am. Ord. 3102, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord. 3157, passed
4-5-05; Am. Ord. 3174, passed 3-21-06; Am. Ord. 3229, passed 3-20-12; Am. Ord.
3408, passed 4-16-24)
§ 15-62 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Guthrie Parks and Urban Forestry Board is hereby vested with the
following powers and duties:
   (A)   To serve as the primary advisory body to the City Council on all
matters pertaining to public parks, recreation programs, and urban forestry.
   (B)   To develop, implement, and periodically update a comprehensive plan
for the city's parks, recreational facilities, and urban forest, aligning with
the city's broader environmental and recreational goals.
   (C)   To recommend policies and strategies for the acquisition, development,
maintenance, and enhancement of parklands, recreational facilities, and urban
forest areas.
   (D)   To oversee the formulation and implementation of standards and
specifications for the planting, maintenance, preservation, and removal of
trees on public property, ensuring the health and diversity of the city's urban
forest.
   (E)   To collaborate with governmental agencies, community organizations,
and the public in promoting and implementing programs that enhance the
recreational and environmental value of the city's parks and urban forest.
   (F)   To advocate for and support public education and awareness initiatives
concerning the benefits and care of urban forestry and the importance of parks
and recreational areas.
   (G)   To advise on and support the enforcement of ordinances and regulations
related to parks, recreation, and urban forestry.
   (H)   To evaluate and recommend the adoption of rules, regulations, fees,
and policies governing the use of park and urban forestry resources to ensure
their sustainable use and enjoyment by all citizens.
   (I)   To perform any other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned by
the City Council related to the development, maintenance, and stewardship of
the city's parks and urban forestry resources.
(Ord. 3020, passed 6-3-97; Am. Ord. 3102, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord. 3157, passed
4-5-05; Am. Ord. 3174, passed 3-21-06; Am. Ord. 3229, passed 3-20-12; Am. Ord.
3408, passed 4-16-24)
§ 15-75 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any of the recreational
facilities or to hunt, fish, swim or use any boat in connection with any of the
recreational facilities owned or operated by the city, without having complied
with the rules and regulations promulgated by the City Council or Park Board in
connection therewith and anyone violating any of the rules and regulations, or
failing to comply with such, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in this code.
(`90 Code, § 15-10) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §
15-17 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor offense and shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $100, plus court costs, and each day that an act or a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a violation of §
15-17, and be construed as a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 15-5) (Ord. 2604, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2823, passed - -; Am. Ord.
2970, passed 4-6-93; Am. Ord. 3074, passed 10-17-00; Am. Ord. 3229, passed 3-
20-12)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions set forth in §
15-31 and §
15-32 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall by
punished as provided in §
12-34 of the Guthrie City Code.
(Ord. 3328, passed 2-18-20)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
CHAPTER 16: PLANNING AND ZONING
Article 1: Planning Commission
   
16-1.   Creation; appointment of members
   
16-2.   Powers and duties
Article 2: Zoning
   
16-15.   Adoption by reference
Article 3: Subdivisions
   
16-25.   Adoption by reference
Article 4: Building Regulations
   
16-35.   Ordinance not required
   
16-36.   Rules and regulations
   
16-37.   Consideration and recommendation of Planning Commission
   
16-38.   Public hearings
Article 5: New Installations
   
16-50.   Minimum street specifications
   
16-51.   Street plans
   
16-52.   Storm sewer; drainage
Article 6: Flood Hazard Areas
   
16-65.   Findings of fact
   
16-66.   Purpose and scope
   
16-67.   Application
   
16-68.   Classification of drainage channels
   
16-69.   Methods of determination
   
16-70.   Areas on major tributaries and rivers
   
16-71.   Minor tributaries and surface drainage improvements
   
16-72.   Drainage channels and storm sewers outside addition boundaries
Article 7: Special Use Permits
   
16-85.   Permit may be granted on special review
   
16-86.   Uses permitted in zoning districts upon grant of special use permit
   
16-87.   Application and site plan review procedure for special use permit
Cross-reference:
   Unoccupied and dilapidated structures, see §§
13-60 through
13-71
ARTICLE 1: PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 16-1 CREATION; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The city, heretofore availed itself of the provisions of House Bill
No. 905 of the 26th Legislature of the state, 19 O.S. §§ 866.1 to 866.35
inclusive, as may be amended, and the city heretofore entered into an agreement
with the Board of Logan County Commissioners for the organization of a
Metropolitan Area Planning Commission, as provided in the Act.
   (B)   In lieu of the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission, it is deemed
expedient for the city to avail itself of the provisions of 11 O.S. § 14-101,
as amended, and by the authority granted herein, there is hereby created the
City Planning Commission, to be known as the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be authorized to nominate five citizens of the city to
serve as members of the Planning Commission, and to be confirmed by the City
Council and provided that the Commission shall not be deemed to be created
until this article is in full force and effect.
   (D)   All ordinances of the city now in full force and effect that contain
the phrases “Planning Commission” or other “Zoning and Planning Commission,”
“Metropolitan Area Planning Commission,” or other words and phrases that mean
City/County Zoning and Planning Commission shall now and hereafter mean and be
referred to as the “Planning Commission.”
   (E)   If any section, word, clause or provision of this article shall be
declared void, unenforceable or illegal or any cause whatsoever, such shall not
affect the validity of the remainder of this article, or any part thereof.
(`90 Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 2590, passed - -)
§ 16-2 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Planning Commission has and shall have all powers and duties
prescribed by state law and all powers and duties possessed by the heretofore
Metropolitan Area Planning Commission.
(`90 Code, § 16-2)
ARTICLE 2: ZONING
§ 16-15 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Ordinance No. 2422, the zoning ordinance of the city, passed by the
City Council on February 4, 1964, as amended, is hereby continued in full force
and effect the same as if it were included in full in this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The zoning ordinance, with amendments, is on file in the Office of the
City Clerk and available during normal working hours for public inspection.
(`90 Code, § 16-3) (Am. Ord. 3107, passed 9-17-02; Am. Ord. 3108, passed 9-17-
02; Am. Ord. 3118, passed 7-1-03; Am. Ord. 3122B, passed 9-2-03; Am. Ord.
3122A, passed 10-21-03; Am. Ord. 3172, passed 2-21-06; Am. Ord. 3182, passed 4-
17-07; Am. Ord. 3185, passed 7-17-07; Am. Ord. 3186, passed 7-17-07; Am. Ord.
3188, passed 11-20-07; Am. Ord. 3226, passed 4-17-12; Am. Ord. 3227, passed - -
12; Am. Ord. 3265, passed 11-4-14; Am. Ord. 3264, passed 2-3-15; Am. Ord. 3279,
passed 2-2-16; Am. Ord. 3289, passed 6-7-16; Am. Ord. 3315, passed 2-5-19; Am.
Ord. 3338, passed 9-8-20; Am. Ord. 3340, passed 10- 6-20; Am. Ord. 3354, passed
6-1-21)
ARTICLE 3: SUBDIVISIONS
§ 16-25 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The “Standards and Regulations for the Subdivision of Land of the Guthrie
Metropolitan Area Planning Commission,” as adopted by the City Council on April
2, 1963, is hereby continued in full force and effect as if included in full in
this code of ordinances. The subdivision regulations, with amendments, are on
file in the Office of the City Clerk and available during normal working hours
for public inspection.
(`90 Code, § 16-4)
ARTICLE 4: BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 16-35 ORDINANCE NOT REQUIRED.
   All rules and regulations in connection herewith, unless permission therefor
be granted by the City Council, shall not be in ordinance form.
(`90 Code, § 16-5) (Res. passed 9-7-78)
§ 16-36 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Any proposed rules and regulations shall be prepared in type-written form
and complete in detail. A complete copy of all proposed rules and regulations
shall be filed with the City Clerk for public inspection and immediately
thereafter, a copy of the proposed rules and regulations shall be delivered to
the Clerk to be transmitted to each of the seven Council members and to the
City Manager. The proposed rules and regulations shall also be submitted to
each member of the Planning Commission.
(`90 Code, § 16-6) (Res. passed 9-7-78)
§ 16-37 CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consider the same and shall have power
to approve or amend the proposed rules and regulations. The Planning Commission
shall conduct, as now provided, a public hearing thereon.
   (B)   At the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall have the further
right to approve or amend the proposed rules and regulations.
(`90 Code, § 16-7) (Res. passed 9-7-78)
§ 16-38 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall thereupon, as now provided, hold a public
hearing on the proposed rules and regulations. At the time of the public
hearing, the City Council shall have power to adopt, amend or reject, in whole
or in part, the proposed rules and regulations.
   (B)   After the hearing before the City Council, the action of the City
Council in approving or amending, in whole or in part, or rejecting the
proposed rules and regulations shall be done by a resolution or a short
ordinance or a motion.
   (C)   A certified copy of the resolution, ordinance or motion showing the
action of the City Council on the proposed rules and regulations shall be
permanently attached to the original of the proposed rules and regulations on
file in the Office of the City Clerk. Also, a copy shall be filed with the
Planning Commission.
(`90 Code, § 16-7.1) (Res. passed 9-7-78)
ARTICLE 5: NEW INSTALLATIONS
§ 16-50 MINIMUM STREET SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Concrete streets.
      (1)   Concrete minor and collector streets, as defined in the subdivision
ordinance of the city, shall be constructed on a six-inch natural soil base,
approved by the City Engineer and shall consist of 3,000 p.s.i. concrete
pavement, a minimum thickness of five inches, a width of at least 32 feet for
collector streets and 27 feet for minor residential streets. All other concrete
streets shall be constructed on a six-inch natural soil base, approved by the
City Engineer, and shall consist of 3,000 p.s.i. concrete pavement, a minimum
thickness of six inches and width of at least 68 feet for primary arterial
thoroughfares, 72 feet for primary arterial thoroughfares with limited
easements and 42 feet for secondary arterial thoroughfares.
      (2)   All concrete residential streets shall be equipped with curbs as an
integral part of the concrete street. The concrete curbs shall have a slope
width of two inches (or.8-inch radius chamfer) from base to crown and a height
of six inches from base to crown. The curb crown shall be a minimum of six
inches wide and curb height from the surface of the soil base to the crown
shall be 11 inches.
      (3)   Concrete residential street tests shall consist of quality control
for concrete and density tests when required of the developer or subdivider and
directed by the Street Department Superintendent, City Manager or City
Engineer, in accordance with State Highway Standard Specifications for Highway
Construction:
      (4)   Concrete curing shall be accomplished by the contractor, in
accordance with §§ 414.04-7(m) and 701.07 of the specifications of the State
Highway Commission.
      (5)   All concrete residential streets, sidewalks and curbs shall be
constructed using an approved 3,000 p.s.i. concrete. During placement and prior
to finishing, a minimum of three test cylinders shall be made by the developer
or contractor and tested for each 80 cubic yards of concrete placed. When
quantities do not meet the 80-cubic yard amount, test cylinders shall be made
and tested as required by the Street Department Superintendent, City Manager or
City Engineer.
      (6)   Thickness verification tests shall be accomplished under the
direction of the City Engineer, City Manager or Street Department
Superintendent at the time of and during pavement placement.
   (B)   Asphaltic streets.
      (1)   Asphaltic streets shall be constructed upon a six-inch compacted
subgrade.
      (2)   The street layer above subgrade shall consist of three inches of
Type “A” asphalt or three inches of Plant Mix Bituminous Base Fine Aggregate
Type asphalt shall be applied in accordance with § 314.01 of the State Highway
Commission Standard Specifications for Highway Construction, current edition.
      (3)   The top street layer shall consist of concrete curbs and gutters,
and the combined width of the asphalt surface and ten inches of concrete gutter
shall conform with minimum widths as outlined for concrete streets.
      (4)   Curbs and gutters on asphalt streets shall be an integral unit
consisting of a gutter with a surface width of ten inches, a curb slope width
of two inches (or .50-inch radius chamfer) from base to crown and a height of
six inches from base to crown.
      (5)   The curb crown shall be a minimum of six inches wide and the
combined curb and gutter height from the surface of the compacted sub-grade to
the crown shall extend a total of 12 inches.
      (6)   In all cases, the Type “C” asphalt surface shall extend one-fourth
inches above but not covering the surface of the concrete gutters.
   (C)   Bases and subgrades. Street bases and subgrades shall consist of a
total minimum thickness of six inches and shall in all cases extend at least
ten inches beyond the backs of all concrete curbs.
   (D)   Joints and cuts. Concrete streets shall be equipped with expansion
joints which shall be placed at intervals of every 100 feet and installed
latterly along the pavement width. Soil cuts shall be made at intervals of
every 25 feet.
   (E)   Asphalt streets for subdivisions platted prior to 1975.
      (1) Asphalt streets installed on virgin soil shall be constructed upon a
2% crowned roadbed having a six-inch gravel compacted subgrade sealed with an
oil coat and three inches of type A asphalt.
      (2)   Existing streets shall be asphalt paved upon a 2% crowned roadbed
having a four-inch gravel compacted subgrade sealed with an oil prime coat and
two inches of Type A asphalt.
      (3)   Before street construction begins, street and drainage
specifications will be submitted to and approved by the Planner or his or her
duly authorized representative.
(`90 Code, § 16-8) (Ord. 2831, passed 10-20-87)
§ 16-51 STREET PLANS.
   Where a proposed new street embraces a street as shown on the city base map,
the new street shall be constructed of the width indicated on the map and in
conformance with the provisions of this article and:
   (A)   Where adjoining a primary arterial street either the same or a limited
easement arterial street shall be constructed to connect;
   (B)   Where adjoining a secondary arterial street, the same or a collector
street shall be constructed to connect; and
   (C)   Where adjoining a collector or minor street, a collector or minor
street shall be constructed to connect.
(`90 Code, § 16-9) (Ord. 2555, passed - -)
§ 16-52 STORM SEWER; DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Concrete pipe shall meet ASTM C-76 Specifications and corrugated steel
pipe shall meet M-36 Specifications of the American Association of State
Highway Officials.
   (B)   The Street Superintendent of the city shall specify the size and
location of storm sewers and drainage facilities on the property in question.
(`90 Code, § 16-10) (Ord. 2555, passed - -)
ARTICLE 6: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
§ 16-65 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The periodic flooding of land area within the corporate limits of the city
and within the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission
results in hazards to life and property, in the disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary expenditures for flood protection and
relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare. Flood and associated losses are
caused by the location in flood hazard areas of buildings, structures and uses
of land which are inadequately protected from flooding and erosion, and which
contribute to flooding by impeding the flow of drainage and by increasing flood
height through displacement of storm water in floodway and flood-fringe areas.
(`90 Code, § 16-11) (Ord. 2570, passed - -)
§ 16-66 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   These regulations and standards are to protect the various portions of the
urban area from flooding, to provide clean and sanitary channels for runoff, to
prevent pollution of watersheds, streams and natural drainage channels, to
prevent the encroachment of buildings and improvements on natural drainage
channels, to equitably apportion the cost of improvements, to protect natural
scenic areas and to provide for the conservation of the natural resources of
the area.
(`90 Code, § 16-12) (Ord. 2570, passed - -)
§ 16-67 APPLICATION.
   All land subdivision and development shall comply with the design and
improvement requirements herein established for the protection of flood hazard
areas and the prevention of erosion within the city corporate limits and within
the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission.
(`90 Code, § 16-13) (Ord. 2570, passed - -)
§ 16-68 CLASSIFICATION OF DRAINAGE CHANNELS.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations drainage shall be classified as
follows:
      (1)   Surface drainage is runoff of a limited quantity and/or slow rate
that it does not cause erosion of a defined channel;
      (2)   A minor tributary is any drainage channel having a drainage basin
of 640 acres (one square mile) or less in area;
      (3)   A major tributary is any channel having a drainage basin of not
less than one square mile or greater than 25 square miles; and/or
      (4)   A river is any channel having a drainage basin of greater than 25
square miles.
   (B)   It is intended that responsibility for drainage be allocated as
follows, unless otherwise specifically designated;
      (1)   The developer is responsible for the following:
         (a)   All surface drainage on the subdivision or planned unit
development;
         (b)   All increases in surface drainage outside the subdivision which
results from the development of the subdivision;
         (c)   The improvement of all minor tributaries lying within the
subdivision or planned unit development;
         (d)   Any significant increase in rate or quantity of runoff in any
minor or major tributary or river which results from the development of the
subdivision; and/or
         (e)   Provision for the maintenance of all floodway and flood-fringe
areas of major tributaries and rivers which have not been dedicated to the
public.
      (2)   The city and other levels of government will be responsible for the
following:
         (a)   The improvement of floodways of major tributaries;
         (b)   The improvement of river floodways; and/or
         (c)   The maintenance of floodway and flood-fringe areas dedicated to
the public.
(`90 Code, § 16-14)
§ 16-69 METHODS OF DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The designation of flood hazard areas is set forth on the official
flood hazard boundary maps of the city and county. The boundaries of all
floodway and flood-fringe areas shall be designated on the preliminary and the
final plat of the subdivision or development and shall be clearly marked.
   (B)   For the areas not otherwise designated in a floodway or a flood-fringe
area, the developer shall be responsible for having an engineer, registered in
the state, prepare a drainage assessment of all the area of the proposed
subdivision or development, and all area affected by runoff resulting from
development of proposed subdivision, in accordance with the following
provisions:
      (1)   The 100-year maximum flood shall be used as the basis for the
sizing of all drainage channels, bridges and other structures, unless otherwise
specified herein.
      (2)   The calculation of stream flow and runoff characteristics of the
subdivision shall be carried out in consultation with the City Engineer, and
the methodology and formulas used shall result in quantities which would be not
less than those derived from the application of the following formulas and
values:
         (a)   Runoff from all drainage areas shall be not less than that
determined by Rational Formula:
Q = AIR
            1.   Q equals cubic feet per second.
            2.   A equals area to be drained in acres, determined by field
surveys for areas less than 640 acres, and by latest government quadrangle maps
for larger areas.
            3.   I equals percent of imperviousness of the area. This may vary
between 40% and 95%, but no value of less than 50% may be used for saturated
urban development.
            4.   R equals rate of rainfall over entire drainage area in inches
per hour, based on time of concentration and latest government records for
area. (Note: Do not use for areas above 15,000 square feet.)
         (b)   The size of closed storm sewers, open channels, culverts and
bridges shall be not less than that determined by using the Manning Formula.
 
Q = 1,486r 2/3s ½A
n
 
            1.   Q equals discharge in cubic feet per second.
            2.   A equals cross sectional area of water in conduit in square
feet.
            3.   r equals hydraulic radius of water in conduit.
            4.   s equals mean slope of hydraulic gradient, in feet of vertical
rise per foot of horizontal distance.
            5.   n equals roughness coefficient, based on condition and type of
material of conduit lining, but not less than 0.013.
(`90 Code, § 16-15) (Ord. 2570, passed - -)
§ 16-70 AREAS ON MAYOR TRIBUTARIES AND RIVERS.
   All floodway and flood-fringe areas located within the subdivision or
planned unit development shall be protected and improved by the developer as
follows:
   (A)   All floodways shall be designated as “flowage easements” and shall be
maintained as permanent open space for use for private recreation or
agriculture for which no buildings or structures are required, or dedicated to
the public for drainage, recreation and utility use.
   (B)   All flood-fringe areas shall be planned for uses which are permitted
in the flood fringe area of the zoning ordinance, and in no case shall the
proposed use or construction cause a displacement of flood water in the flood
fringe that will increase flooding in other areas of the floodway or flood
fringe.
   (C)   When it is determined by the City or Country Engineer that the
development of the subdivision will significantly increase runoff in the flood
hazard area or will otherwise adversely affect storm water runoff, the Planning
Commission may require any or all of the following to the extent needed to
reduce the adverse effects of the development:
      (1)   The existing floodway lying within or immediately adjacent to the
subdivision shall be cleaned to provide for the free flow of water, and the
channel shall be straightened, widened and improved to the extent required to
prevent overflow beyond the limits of the floodway.
      (2)   Site improvement shall provide for the grading of all building
sites and streets to an elevation where all lots, building areas and streets
will not be subject to overflow and in a manner that will provide for the rapid
runoff of all rainfall. The improvements shall be carried out in a manner that
will preserve and protect large trees and attractive physical features of the
area.
      (3)   Whenever channel improvement is carried out, sodding, back sloping,
cribbing and other bank protection shall be designed and constructed to control
erosion for all the anticipated conditions of flow for the segment of channel
involved.
      (4)   A drainage channel shall not be located in a street easement unless
it is placed in an enclosed storm sewer, or unless a paved street surface is
provided on both sides of a paved channel to give access to abutting
properties.
      (5)   Culverts, bridges and other drainage structures shall be
constructed in accordance with the specifications of the city at all locations
where drainage channels intersect with continuous streets and alleys.
(`90 Code, § 16-16) (Ord. 2570, passed - -)
§ 16-71 MINOR TRIBUTARIES AND SURFACE DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS.
   All minor tributaries and surface drainage located within or immediately
adjacent to and serving the subdivision shall be improved by the developer, as
follows:
   (A)   All minor tributary channels shall be improved in accordance with the
standards set forth in images adopted by reference, or other equivalent
standards, as determined by the City or County Engineer. All channels shall be
designed to carry a 100-year maximum flood, shall be designed for self-
cleaning and ease of maintenance, shall have sufficient hard surface along the
flow line to prevent ponding of water, and shall have design characteristics of
alignment, materials of construction and cross- sectioned elements that will be
hydraulically efficient and visually harmonious with the adjacent landscape.
   (B)   Enclosed storm sewers may be required by the City or County Engineer
where special or unusual conditions make open channels hazardous or otherwise
unfeasible.
   (C)   Site grading shall be carried out in a manner that surface water from
each lot shall flow directly to a storm sewer, improved channel or paved street
without crossing more than two adjacent lots.
   (D)   Surface water collected on streets shall be diverted to storm drains
at satisfactory intervals to prevent overflow of six-inch high curbs during a
50-year frequency rain for the area and grades involved. In no case shall the
drainage area served by one street exceed ten acres, regardless of the amount
of flow.
   (E)   Drainage easements of satisfactory width to provide working room for
construction and maintenance shall be provided for all storm sewers. In no case
shall the easement be less than 20 feet.
   (F)   Bridges and culverts:
      (1)   Bridges or culverts shall be provided where water courses cross
continuous streets or alleys.
      (2)   Bridges and culverts shall be sized to accommodate a 100-year
frequency rain, based on the drainage area involved.
      (3)   Design of bridges and culverts shall conform to city or county
construction specifications.
   (G)   Closed storm sewers:
      (1)   Closed storm sewers shall be constructed of pre-cast or
prefabricated pipe or built in place of closed box design to conform with city
or county specifications.
      (2)   Side slopes above the paved section shall be shaped and sodded on a
slope of four horizontal to one vertical or flatter.
      (3)   Fences shall be outside of the 100-year frequency flooding line,
shall not be erected below the shoulder of the sodded section, and in no case
shall fences be closer than six feet (measured horizontally) to the edge of the
paved section, except as specifically set out otherwise.
      (4)   Hand-laid rip rap may be substituted for sodded shoulders where
desired for landscape purposed.
(`90 Code, § 16-17) (Ord. 2570, passed - -)
§ 16-72 DRAINAGE CHANNELS AND STORM SEWERS OUTSIDE ADDITION BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The city or county reserves the right to require improvements,
provisions of drainage easements, and for provision of agreements beyond the
boundaries of the subdivision to facilitate flow of water through the addition,
to avoid probability of law suits based on damage from changed runoff in the
subdivision, and to provide continuous improvements of the overall storm
drainage system.
   (B)   Requirements outside the addition may include the following:
      (1)   Improvements may be required in channels or storm sewers flowing to
or from the addition, or in channels or storm sewers located in adjacent areas
that are affected by flow of water from the addition.
      (2)   The following kinds of improvements may be required:
         (a)   Enlargement or replacement of undersized drainage structures to
provide free flow;
         (b)   Removal of obstruction;
         (c)   Straightening of channel;
         (d)   Widening or deepening of the channel;
         (e)   Construction of erosion control structures;
         (f)   Back sloping, sodding and/or rip rapping of bank; and
         (g)   Construction of closed or open paved storm sewers for the
purposes of closing gap or continuation of overall storm sewer system.
      (3)   Property owner agreements, where required, shall be designed to
protect the city or county from probable law suits for damage, caused by
changed runoff condition.
      (4)   When subdivision development will result in increased runoff beyond
the boundaries of the subdivision which cannot be accommodated through channel
improvements without causing downstream flooding, the Planning Commission may
require the construction of one or more retention reservoirs on the subdivision
which will temporarily impound and discharge water from the subdivision site at
the rate and volume equivalent to the discharge from the undeveloped
subdivision or planned unit development site. The design shall be for a 100-
year frequency flood. Plans shall be approved by the City or County Engineer.
The construction and maintenance of retention reservoirs shall be the
responsibility of the developer.
(`90 Code, § 16-18) (Ord. 2570, passed - -)
ARTICLE 7: SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 16-85 PERMIT MAY BE GRANTED ON SPECIAL REVIEW.
   A special use permit may be granted by the City Council for certain uses
specified as permitted on review in each zoning district or in this chapter.
The purpose of this special review provision is to closely scrutinize those
uses, which, because of the size of the land they require or the specialized
nature of the improvements or land use, have great impact on surrounding
properties. Therefore, they may or may not be compatible with the surrounding
land uses depending upon the particular details of the development. The uses
requiring a special use permit are also unusual in that there may be only one
or two in a community, and therefore it is difficult to place them in a
particular zoning district.
(Ord. 3105, passed 8-6-02)
§ 16-86 USES PERMITTED IN ZONING DISTRICTS UPON GRANT OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   Upon consideration of all pertinent information as required by this chapter,
the City Council, after review by the Planning Commission, may grant a special
use permit to authorize the uses listed in the individual zoning districts
under the category “Special Permit Uses.”
(Ord. 3105, passed 8-6-02)
§ 16-87 APPLICATION AND SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Application requirements. An application for special use permit shall
be filed with the City Planning Commission. At time of filing the applicant
shall pay a fee as set forth in the fee schedule at the end of this code to
cover the cost of publication notice and investigation. Said applicant shall
submit a list of all record property owners and their current addresses within
a 300 foot radius of the boundaries of the total site used for the special use
permit described or the boundaries of the property ownership.
   (B)   Site plan. A complete site development plan shall be filed with each
application, which shall show the location of buildings on the property, the
elevation of the buildings and general description of the materials to be used
on the building and including any landscape plan.
   (C)   Hearing procedure. The City Planning Commission shall hold one or more
public hearings on the application and shall within 45 days of the application
transmit to the City Council its report as to the effect of such proposed
building conditions, public utilities and other matters pertaining to the
general welfare, and the recommendations of the Planning Commission concerning
the use thereon. Thereupon, the City Council will hold one or more public
hearings at which time they may authorize or deny the issuance of a building
permit for the use of land or buildings as requested.
   (D)   Factors to be considered. The action of the City Council with any
application may include the requirements of landscaping, fencing, walls, and
other features deemed necessary to further the purposes of this chapter and
such features shall be provided and maintained during the continuance of any
use of which they are appurtenant. The following factors should be considered:
      (1)   The location and area of main and accessory buildings on the site
and in relation to each other and to adjacent use:
      (2)   The number and arrangement of parking spaces, traffic spaces,
traffic circulation areas, the adequacy and manner of lighting thereof, and its
effect on surrounding properties;
      (3)   The relationship between the off-street parking areas and points of
ingress and egress and the traffic circulation both within and without the
site;
      (4)   The provisions of adequate off-street loading and service facility;
      (5)   The provision for proper facilities for the accumulation and
disposal of garbage and trash;
      (6)   The provision of fences, walls and landscaping in the facilities
and manner of maintenance thereof;
      (7)   Such other factors as may be necessary to secure and protect the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
   (E)   Special condition for special use permit.
      (1)   No use approved under special use permit shall be commenced or
maintained upon a lot or parcel except in accordance with the approved site
plan.
      (2)   Special permits shall expire by default:
         (a)   If the use is not established within 12 months and no building
permit has been issued or no extension is approved. If a building permit has
been issued and construction commences within the time provided before
expiration of the building permit, then the special use permit shall be
extended. When a building permit has not been issued for construction within 12
months of the City Council approval of the special use permit the applicant or
owner may request a hearing for an extension of the special use permit. Good
cause for an extension shall mean that the owner shows evidence that he or she
has contractors or applications for continual development within the next year
following the original approval.
         (b)   If the use once established has been discontinued for a period
of 12 months or abandoned.
         (c)   Whenever the Building Inspector finds that any proposed
construction or occupancy will not, in his or her opinion, substantially comply
with the special use permit, he or she shall refer the question to the City
Council for its review.
         (d)   When the holder of the special use permit determines that an
extension of time or modification of site development and plan or other
requirements is necessary, he or she may apply for amendment in the same manner
as the original application. The amendment shall be processed in the same
manner as the original application.
(Ord. 3105, passed 8-6-02; Am. Ord. 3136, passed 4-20-04)
CHAPTER 17: PRIVATE PROPERTY
Article 1: Unclaimed Property
   
17-1.   Complete records required
   
17-2.   Disposition of unclaimed property
   
17-3.   Property found by private persons
   
17-15.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 17-1 COMPLETE RECORDS REQUIRED.
   All personal property which comes into the question of any police officer,
which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the possession
of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto shall be, by
the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge of the Chief
of Police. The Chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose,
make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was
taken and the place where it was found, and the record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser and the amount for which it was sold.
(`90 Code, § 17-1)
§ 17-2 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized hereunder and pursuant to 11 O.S. §
34-104, to dispose of personal property or money or legal tender as provided in
this section, which has come into his or her possession in any manner if:
      (1)   The owner of the personal property or money or legal tender is
unknown or has not claimed the property;
      (2)   The property or money or legal tender has been in the custody of
the Chief of Police for at least six months; and
      (3)   The property or money or legal tender or any part thereof is no
longer needed to be held as evidence or for any other purpose in connection
with any litigation.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall file an application in the County District
Court requesting the authority of the court to conduct a sale of the personal
property which has a fair market value of more than its face value. The Chief
of Police shall attach to his or her application a list describing the property
including any identifying numbers and marks, the date the property came into
his or her possession, and the name of the owner and the person in last
possession, if different and his or her address, if known. The Court shall set
the application for hearing not less than ten days nor more than 20 days after
filing of the application pursuant to 11 O.S. § 34-104.
   (C)   If any instance where the property has an actual or apparent value of
more than $25, at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing, notice of
the hearing shall be sent by certified mail to each owner at his or her address
as listed in the application. If the owner of any property with an actual or
apparent value exceeding $500 is unable to be served notice by the certified
mail, notice shall be provided by one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county where the property is in custody. The notice shall
contain a brief description of the property of the owner and the place and date
of the hearing. The notice shall be posted at the assigned place for the
posting of municipal notices, and at two other public places in the city.
   (D)   If no owner appears and establishes ownership to the property at the
hearing, the court shall enter an order authorizing the Chief of Police to
donate the property having value of less than $500 to a not-for-profit
corporation as defined in O.S. Title 18 for use by needy families or to sell
the personal property for cash to the highest bidder, after at least five days'
notice of the sale has been published. The Chief of Police shall make a return
of the donation or sale and the order of the court confirming the donation or
sale shall vest title to the property in the recipient or purchaser. After
payment of court costs and other expenses, the remainder of money received from
the sale of the personal property shall be deposited in the municipal general
fund.
   (E)   (1)   All money or legal tender which has come into the possession of
the Chief of Police pursuant to the circumstances provided for in division (A)
above shall be transferred by the Chief of Police to the City Clerk for deposit
in the municipal general fund. Prior to any transfer, the Chief of Police shall
file an application in the County District Court requesting the Court to enter
an order authorizing him or her to transfer the money for deposit in the
municipal general fund. The application shall describe the money or legal
tender, any serial numbers, the date the same came into his or her possession,
and the name of the owner and his or her address, if known. Upon filing the
application which may be joined with an application as described in division
(B) above, a hearing shall be set not less than ten days nor more than 20 days
from the filing of the application. Notice of the hearing shall be given as
provided for in division (C) above. The notice shall state that upon failure of
anyone to appear to prove ownership to the money or legal tender, the Court
shall order the same to be deposited in the municipal general fund. The notice
may be combined with a notice to sell personal property as provided for in
division (B) above.
      (2)   If no one appears to claim and prove ownership to the money or
legal tender at the hearing, the Court shall order the same to be transferred
to the municipal general fund as provided in this section pursuant to 11 O.S. §
34-104.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dangerous or
deadly weapons, narcotic or poisonous drugs, explosives or any property of any
kind or character, which the possession of is prohibited by law. By order of
the Trial Court, any property filed as an exhibit or held by the municipality
shall be destroyed or sold or disposed of, pursuant to the conditions
prescribed in such order.
(11 O.S. § 34-104) (`90 Code, § 17-2) (Am. Ord. 2930, passed 11-20-90; Am. Ord.
2980, passed 12-21-93)
§ 17-3 PROPERTY FOUND BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a procedure for the registration of “lost
and found” property, which gives the finder of any property the option of
relinquishing any future claim to found property at the time its possession is
surrendered to the Police Department or of retaining possession of the property
at an address within the city after registering its description, its location
and the tinder's identity with the Police Department. Only property in which
the finder relinquishes any future claim to its ownership shall be stored in
Police Department property rooms. The Chief of Police shall secure certain
information which he or she deems necessary and proper related to the found
property from the finder of the property, including but not limited to a
description of the item, the finders' names, address and telephone number,
information as to where the item was recovered or found, the date and time the
item was received by the city and the name of the police officer who received
the found property.
   (B)   Where a finder of any property exercises his or her option to retain
possession of the found property after registering its description with the
Police Department, the finder shall have a mandatory duty to do each of the
following:
      (1)   To maintain, protect, secure, preserve, retain and possess the
found property so registered, at all times, solely within the city, at the
address and location which is at all times registered with the Police
Department, in the same condition in which it was originally found by them
without any use, sale, transfer, change, benefit, wear, consumption, profit,
conversion, exploitation, modification, alteration, alternation or change of
any kind whatsoever, for a period of time equal to at least six months from the
date of registration of the found property with the Police Department or longer
period as may be required by the Police Department upon notice to the finder;
      (2)   To provide a secure building, covered enclosure or facility within
the city which is at all times locked so as to protect and safeguard the found
property from theft, pilferage, vandalism and from damage due to the effects of
weather;
      (3)   To notify the Police Department telephonically and in writing of
any change of address, telephone number or location of the finder and/or the
found property not later than 24 hours of such change of address, telephone
number or location of the finder and/or the found property;
      (4)   To maintain active, working telephone service and at all times have
the correct and current telephone number, including a daytime or work telephone
number, registered with the Police Department so as to enable and facilitate
police communication with the finder at any time; and
      (5)   To deliver, present, provide, bring, tender, convey, transfer and/
or return the registered found property in the same condition in which it was
originally found to the principal office of the Police Department upon notice,
whether oral, written, telephonic or otherwise, to the finder to deliver the
found property to the Police Department which notice is in any manner given or
communicated by an officer of the department to a finder, which finder shall
have 24 hours from the time of receipt of notice in which to comply through the
delivery, presentation, provision, bringing, tendering, conveyance, transfer
and/or return of the registered found property to the principal office of the
Police Department.
(`90 Code, § 17-3) (Am. Ord. 2930, passed 11-20-90; Am. Ord. 2980, passed 12-
21-93)
§ 17-15 PENALTY.
   Every person who wilfully delays or obstructs any public officer in the
discharge or attempt to discharge any duty of his or her office is guilty of an
offense, including but not limited to, a finder who registers any found
property and fails to discharge any of the duties imposed in §
17-3 and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100, plus court costs,
and each day that an act or a violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a
violation of
Article 1 and be construed as a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 17-4) (Am. Ord. 2930, passed 11-20-90; Am. Ord. 2980, passed 12-
21-93)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
CHAPTER 18: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Article 1: Water System
   
18-1.   Fluorine
Article 2: Sanitary Sewer Systems
   
18-15.   Declaration
   
18-16.   User fees
   
18-17.   Collection
   
18-18.   Disposition of funds
   
18-19.   Definitions
   
18-20.   Connections
   
18-21.   Certain wastes prohibited
   
18-22.   Industrial or harmful wastes
   
18-23.   Special handling
   
18-24.   Information and cooperation
   
18-25.   Notice to make proper connections
   
18-26.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
18-27.   Control manholes
   
18-28.   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
18-29.   Special agreement or arrangement
   
18-30.   Right of inspection
Article 3: Mineral Water
   
18-40.   License required
   
18-41.   Containers
   
18-42.   Certificates or seals
   
18-43.   Revocation of license
Article 4: Private Disposal Systems
   
18-55.   Unlawful contamination
   
18-56.   Operation prohibited
   
18-57.   Public nuisance
   
18-58.   Abatement
   
18-59.   Exception
Article 5: Water Shortages
   
18-70.   Emergency restrictions
   
18-71.   Definition; stages
   
18-72.   Proclamations
   
18-73.   Surcharges
   
18-74.   Publications and notifications
   
18-75.   Terms
   
18-76.   Grievances; appeal to Council
   
18-77.   Offenses
Article 6: Public Sewers
   
18-90.   Definitions
   
18-91.   Prohibited discharges
   
18-92.   New sewers and connections
Article 7: User Charge System
   
18-105.   Definitions
   
18-106.   Sewer use charge
   
18-107.   User charge schedule
   
18-108.   Excessive strength charges
   
18-109.   Review and revision
   
18-110.   Toxic pollutants charges
   
18-111.   Notification
   
18-112.   Charges for extraneous flows
   
18-113.   Records
   
18-114.   Billing
ARTICLE 1: WATER SYSTEM
§ 18-1 FLUORINE.
   Upon receiving the consent and approval of the State Board of Health, and
until further direction of the City Council, the Water Department is hereby
authorized and directed to provide the means and to proceed with the
introduction of approximately one part of fluorine to every million parts of
water being distributed in the water supply system of the city.
(`90 Code, § 18-1)
ARTICLE 2: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS
§ 18-15 DECLARATION.
   The sanitary sewer system of the city is hereby declared to be a public
utility and a proper source of revenue for the upkeep and maintenance of the
system, and for other purposes.
(`90 Code, § 18-2)
§ 18-16 USER FEES.
   Sewer use fees to be charged are as set out in the fee schedule at the end
of this code of ordinances.
(`90 Code, § 18-3)
§ 18-17 COLLECTION.
   The fee for the use of the sanitary sewers shall be billed to each user
monthly, along with the bill for water and other services, and the city is
directed not to accept payment of the water bill unless the payment is
accompanied by the sewer use fee.
(`90 Code, § 18-4)
§ 18-18 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   The funds derived from the fees shall be deposited in the general revenues
of the city, to be used for the upkeep, maintenance, extension and repair of
the sanitary sewer system, and for other uses as the City Council may deem fit.
(`90 Code, § 18-5)
§ 18-19 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C., expressed in parts per million by weight.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer or his or her authorized representative.
   GARBAGE. Solid food wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. All water-borne solids, liquids or gaseous wastes,
resulting from the development of any natural resource, or any mixture of these
with water or domestic sewage as distinct from normal domestic sewage.
   LATERAL. A small diameter primary collector line for serving abutting
properties.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive, subject to approval of the city
engineer.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a water course, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group or governmental agency.
   pH. The logarithm to the base ten of the reciprocal of the weight of
hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded to a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with ground,
surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any city-owned facility, devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flows exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
(`90 Code, § 18-6) (Ord. 2520, passed - -)
§ 18-20 CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any storm sewer or natural outlet
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with latest state and federal water quality criteria for the stream
involved.
(`90 Code, § 18-7) (Ord. 2520, passed - -)
§ 18-21 CERTAIN WASTES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to connect or cause
to be connected the downspout or conduits draining storm or rain water from the
roofs, premises or other places on buildings, or uncontaminated cooling water
or unpolluted industrial process waters with any of the lateral or main
sanitary sewers of the city, or to in any manner conduct or cause to be
conducted any uncontaminated cooling or unpolluted industrial process water,
storm water, surface or subsurface water or rain water whatsoever into the
sanitary sewer.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, or injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having pH lower than 6.0 or greater than 10.5
or having any other chemical or corrosive properties which are hazardous or
capable of causing damage to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage
works; and/or
      (4)   Solids or viscous substances in quantities or of sizes, will not
pass through a quarter-inch screen, capable of causing obstruction to flow in
sewer or other interference with the proper operation of the of the sewage
works, storm sewers or natural outlets such as, but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, rubber, unground garbage, animal grease or oil, whole blood,
paunch manure, hair, meat fleshings, entrails, bones, hooves, toe nails,
bristles, horns, chicken feet or heads, yeast, spent grain, hops, whey, whole
or separated milk, paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(`90 Code, § 18-8) (Ord. 2520, passed - -)
§ 18-22 INDUSTRIAL OR HARMFUL WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any substances,
materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the City
Engineer that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process
or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise
endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes,
the City Engineer will give consideration to the factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flow and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability, of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent
factors.
   (C)   The prohibited substances are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F. or
65°C.;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F. and 150°F. or 0°C. and
65°C.;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded; (The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the City
Engineer.)
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirements, to the degree that any material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the City Engineer for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the City Engineer as necessary, after treatment of composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the City Engineer in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
      (8)   Materials which exert of cause are as follows:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to Fuller’s earth lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
(such as, but not limited to whey, whole or separated milk, yeast, whole blood
and the like) in quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage
treatment works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs,” as defined herein.
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(`90 Code, § 18-9) (Ord. 2520, passed - -)
§ 18-23 SPECIAL HANDLING.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated herein, which in the judgment of the City
Engineer may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Director of Public Works/City Engineer may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   (B)   If the Director of Public Works/City Engineer, permits the
pretreatment of equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the
plants and equipment shall be subject to his or her review and approval, and
subject to the requirements of and applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(`90 Code, § 18-10) (Ord. 2529, passed - -)
§ 18-24 INFORMATION AND COOPERATION.
   (A)   Grantees of industrial waste connections shall cooperate at all times
with the City Engineer in the inspecting, sampling and study of the industrial
wastes and facilities provided for pretreatment.
   (B)   User shall also furnish any additional information relating to the
installation or use of the industrial sewer as may be requested by the City
Engineer and shall operate and maintain any waste pretreatment facilities as
may be required as a condition of the acceptance into the public sewer of the
industrial wastes involved in an efficient manner at all times and at no
expense to the city.
   (C)   User shall notify the City Engineer immediately in the event of any
accident or other occurrence that occasions discharge to the public sewers of
any wastes or process waters not covered by agreement and permit.
(`90 Code, § 18-11) (Ord. 2520, passed - -)
§ 18-25 NOTICE TO MAKE PROPER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall cause to be served on the owner and/or
occupant of any buildings or establishments with any sewer connections which do
not conform to the provisions hereof at the time of the passage of this
article, a notice in writing stating that the sewer connections do not conform
to this chapter and advising that a connection must be made as required giving
30 days’ time in which to make the proper connection.
   (B)   If, after 30 days from the day of the service of the notice, the
proper connection has not been made, then it shall be unlawful and an offense
for any person, firm, association or corporation to maintain or use any sewer
connection not conforming to the provisions hereof.
(`90 Code, § 18-12) (Ord. 2520, passed - -)
§ 18-26 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Scope and purpose. To aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions from contributions and accumulation of fats, oils
and greases into said sewer system from industrial or commercial
establishments, particularly food preparation and serving facilities.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in
activities of preparing, serving or otherwise making available for consumption
foodstuffs and that use one or more of the following preparation activities:
cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing,
rotisserie cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting,
toasting or poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing
and any other food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food
product in or on a receptacle that requires washing.
      FATS, OILS and GREASES. Any man-made synthetic oil or lubricant, organic
polar compounds derived from animal and/or plant sources that contain multiple
carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These substances are detectable and
measurable using analytical test procedures established in 40 CFR 136, as may
be amended from time to time. All are sometimes referred to herein as GREASE or
GREASES.
      GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR. A device for separating and retaining
waterborne greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the
trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These
devices also serve to collect settlable solids, generated by and from food
preparation activities, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the
sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. Grease traps and interceptors
are sometimes referred to herein as GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
      MAINTENANCE. All cleaning, disposal and discharge into the publicly-owned
treatment works (POTW).
      MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY. The design features of a grease interceptor
and its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases
from grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
      NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments that contribute fats,
oils and greases, as described above, or those establishments primarily engaged
in the preparation of pre-cooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of
cooking. These include cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs preparation and serving
establishments.
      USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution or
discharge of wastewater into the publicly-owned treatment works (POTW),
including persons who contribute such wastewater from mobile sources, such as
those who discharge hauled wastewater.
   (C)   Grease interceptor maintenance, record-keeping and grease removal.
      (1)   Grease interceptors shall be installed by users as required by city
ordinances. Grease interceptors shall be installed at the user’s expense, when
such user operates a cooking establishment. Grease interceptors may also be
required in non-cooking or cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs establishments and
other industrial or commercial establishments when they are deemed necessary by
the Code Administrator for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease. No user shall allow wastewater discharge concentration from subject
grease interceptor to exceed 325 milligrams per liter, as identified by EPA
Method 1664 or 275 milligrams per liter, as identified by EPA Method 413. All
grease interceptors shall be of a type, design and capacity approved by the
Code Administrator or his or her designee and shall be readily and easily
accessible for user cleaning and city inspection. All such grease interceptors
shall be serviced and emptied of accumulated waste content as required in order
to maintain minimum design capability or effective volume of the grease
interceptor, but not less often than every 30 days. Users who are required to
pass water through a grease interceptor shall:
         (a)   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at
actual peak flow or 12 minutes at the calculated theoretical peak flow rate as
predicted by the Uniform Plumbing Code fixture criteria, between the influent
and effluent baffles with 20% of the total volume of the grease interceptor
being allowed for sludge to settle and accumulate, identified hereafter as a
“sludge pocket”;
         (b)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than 30 days at the user’s expense. Grease
interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid material such as grit,
rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags and the
like, which could settle into this pocket and thereby reduce the effective
volume of the grease interceptor;
         (c)   Accept the following conditions: If any skimmed or pumped wastes
or other materials removed from the grease interceptor are treated in any
fashion on-site and reintroduced back into the grease interceptor as an
activity of and after said on-site treatment, the user shall be responsible for
the attainment of established grease numerical limit consistent with and
contained in division (C)(1) on all discharges of wastewater from said grease
interceptor into the city sanitary sewer collection and treatment system.
         (d)   Operate the grease interceptor in a manner so as to maintain
said device such that attainment of the grease limit is consistently achieved.
“Consistent” shall mean any wastewater sample taken from said grease
interceptor shall be subject to terms of numerical limit attainment described
in division (C)(1). If an establishment desires, because of documented space
constraints, an alternate to out-of-building grease interceptors, the request
for an alternative location shall contain the following information:
            1.   Location of city sewer main and easement in relation to
available exterior space outside building; and
            2.   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing
for all services at that site.
         (e)   Understand and agree that: The use of biological additives as a
grease degradation agent is conditionally permissible, upon prior written
approval by the Code Administrator. Any establishment using this method of
grease abatement shall maintain the trap or interceptor in such a manner that
attainment of the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the
trap’s outlet, is consistently achieved;
         (f)   Understand and agree that: The use of automatic grease removal
systems is conditionally permissible, upon prior written approval by the Code
Administrator, the city Plumbing Inspector, and the Logan County Department of
Health. Any establishment using this equipment shall operate the system in such
a manner that attainment of the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured
from the unit’s outlet, is consistently achieved; and
         (g)   Understand and agree that: The Code Administrator reserves the
right to make determinations of grease interceptor adequacy and need, based on
review of all relevant information regarding grease interceptor performance,
facility site and building plan review and to require repairs to, or
modification and replacement of, such traps.
      (2)   The user shall maintain a written record of trap maintenance for
three years. All such records will be available for inspection by the city at
all times.
      (3)   No non-grease laden sources are allowed to be connected to sewer
lines intended for grease interceptor service.
      (4)   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following
adoption of this section, although installation of grease interceptors will be
required, no enforcement actions will be taken under this section for failure
to achieve limits on grease discharges from grease interceptors. If, during
this one-year period, an obstruction of a city sewer main occurs that causes a
sewer overflow to the extent that an impact on the environment is realized and
that said overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer collection system to convey
sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an accumulation of grease in
the city’s sewer main(s), the city will take appropriate enforcement actions
against the generator or contributor of such grease.
      (5)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
provided over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend
at least to finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water
inflow or infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection, grease removal and wastewater sampling activities.
   (D)   Penalty.  Penalty for violating any provision of this section shall be
a fine not to exceed $200 plus court costs of $40 or any amendment of court
cost hereafter.
(`90 Code, § 18-13) (Ord. 2520, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3154, passed 3-15-05)
§ 18-27 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   (A)   Where required by the City Engineer, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
the wastes.
   (B)   The manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City
Engineer.
   (C)   The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and
shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(`90 Code, § 18-14) (Ord. 2520, passed - -)
§ 18-28 MEASUREMENTS TESTS AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole.
   (B)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
(`90 Code, § 18-15) (Ord. 2520, passed - -)
§ 18-29 SPECIAL AGREEMENT OR ARRANGEMENTS.
   (A)   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to the charge herein.
   (B)   The industrial waste charge shall be calculated with the following
formula:
   IC - jV + V(A (BOD-200*)) + b(SS-200*)
      (1)   IC equals industrial charge.
      (2)   V equals volume discharged in millions of gallons.
      (3)   j equals basic rate, $100 per million gallons treated.
      (4)   a equals BOD surcharge factor, $50 per million gallons per
milligram per liter, based on the treatment costs attributable to the removal
of BOD.
      (5)   BOD equals five-day concentration at 20°C., BOD of the industrial
wastes (mg/l) to be measured of the intervals from composite samples.
      (6)   b equals SS surcharge factor, $50 per million gallons per milligram
per liter, based on the treatment costs attributable to the removal of SS.
      (7)   SS equals suspended solids of the industrial waste (mg/l) to be
measured at intervals from composite samples.
   (C)   The assumed concentration of BOD and SS in “normal” domestic sewage is
200 mg/l.
(`90 Code, § 18-16) (Ord. 2520, passed - -)
§ 18-30 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The City Engineer, and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials shall be permitted to enter all properties at
reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(`90 Code, § 18-17) (Ord. 2520, passed - -)
   (B)   (1)   Effluent discharge permits for hydrocarbon remediation systems,
as a form of industrial pretreatment, are hereby authorized to be issued by the
City Manager or his or her designee in order to protect the sanitary sewer
system and publicly owned treatment works of the city and any of its duly
constituted authorities from substances or wastes which could violate any
governmental permits or licenses or cause the city or any duly constituted
authority thereof to be in violation of any governmental permits or licenses,
could harm the sewers, the sewage treatment process or equipment, have an
adverse effect on the receiving stream or could otherwise endanger life, limb,
public property or constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   The issuance of effluent discharge permits by the city for
hydrocarbon remediation systems to discharge effluents into the city’s sanitary
sewer system are conditioned upon the existence of the following:
         (a)   A properly completed written application for the purpose to
include a site plan;
         (b)   An opinion in writing from the City Engineer and the City Public
Works Director that the discharge will not harm the sewers, the sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance;
         (c)   Payment of applicable annual permit fee of $1,000 or appropriate
pro rata quarterly portions thereof, which fee is subject to adjustment from
time to time by resolution of the City Council;
         (d)   Proof of casualty and liability insurance coverage to include
the city and the Public Works Authority as named insured parties in an amount
for each of not less than $1,000,000 or other higher amount(s) as may be
determined necessary by the City Manager; and
         (e)   A fail safe device shall be required of each hydrocarbon
remediation system that is designed to shut down the remediation system,
operation and equipment, in the event of any system, operation or equipment
malfunction, breakage or breakdown of whatsoever kind or nature so as to
immediately terminate any discharge into the city's sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   The form of the remediation effluent discharge permits to be used
shall include the following:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the party authorized
to discharge wastewater, the address of the facility which shall discharge and
the name and telephone number of a responsible party who may be contacted in
the event of an emergency;
         (b)   The outfalls through which the permitted discharge shall occur
shall be identified in an attachment to the permit which shall be a part of the
permit;
         (c)   A statement that the permittee shall keep a record, either
weekly or monthly as required in the same attachment to the permit identifying
outfalls through which discharge shall occur, which record shall include the
quantity of discharge and all sample results required in the aforesaid
attachment;
         (d)   A statement that noncompliance with any terms or conditions of
the permit shall constitute a violation of the city code, sanitary sewer use
ordinance, together with a listing of any penalties appropriate in the event of
noncompliance with the terms or conditions of the permit, including but not
limited to increased monitoring requirements, a fine of not to exceed $1,000
per day per occurrence and permit revocation or modification; (The city shall
retain the sole discretion as to the selection of a penalty or penalties listed
above or others as may be permitted by law or in equity.)
         (e)   A statement that all discharges must comply with any applicable
state and/or federal regulations;
         (f)   A statement that the city reserves the right to change, modify
or revoke the permit for any reason including, but not limited to the
following:
            1.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
standard requirement;
            2.   Material or substantial alterations or additions to the
discharger's operation processes or discharge volume or character which were
not considered in drafting the effective permit;
            3.   A change in any condition at either the discharger's facility
or the publicly owned treatment works (POTW) that requires either a temporary
or permanent reduction or elimination of authorized discharge;
            4.   Receipt of information indicating that the permittee discharge
poses a threat to the city sanitary sewer wastewater collection or treatment
system, personnel or receiving waters;
            5.   Violation of any terms of the permit;
            6.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the permit application or in required reporting and sampling;
            7.   To correct typographical errors in the permit;
            8.   To reflect transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation
to a new owner/operator;
            9.   Upon a request of the permittee, provided the request does not
create a violation of any applicable requirement, standard, law or rules and
regulations;
            10.   The failure to timely pay to the city the yearly permit fees
due under the permit, sanitary sewer usage fees, tapping fees, volumetric
charges or any penalty; and
            11.   The failure to timely prepare and submit any reports or
sampling results to the city.
         (g)   A statement that the annual permit fee shall be due and payable
by January 15 of each calendar year that the permit is in effect and for
permits whose effective date falls within the second, third or fourth quarter
of a calendar year the fee will be prorated based upon the following equation:
prorated permit fee = number of days remaining in calendar year/365) = yearly
permit fee; (For permit effective dates within the first quarter of a calendar
year, the full permit fee will be applicable.)
         (h)   A statement that the permittee shall be responsible for
application and receipt of all permits necessary for remediation system
construction, startup and operation, including but not limited to building,
air, groundwater recovery and monitor/recovery well installation;
         (i)   A statement that the permittee shall be responsible for fees
associated with the discharge of wastewater into the city sanitary sewer
system; (An initial sanitary sewer line tapping fee per outfall plus a
volumetric charge per 1,000 gallons of wastewater discharged shall be charged
to the permittee. Volumetric fees will be based upon monthly discharge volume
reported by the permittee. Failure to pay charges in a timely manner, can cause
revocation of permit.)
         (j)   A statement that city officers, employees or agents shall be
allowed access at all times for inspection of remediation system equipment and
operation; (In case of emergencies, city officials shall be trained, prior to
system startup, in system operation and shutdown. Necessary access keys shall
be provided to city officials, so that, immediate access to the remediation
system is available and inspection or shutdown can be performed.)
         (k)   A statement that should the permittee wish to continue discharge
beyond the expiration date of a permit, an application must be filed a minimum
of 90 days prior to the expiration date; (A permit shall not be transferred or
assigned without the prior written consent of the city.)
         (l)   A statement of the effective date of the permit and of the
expiration date of the permit;
         (m)    A statement, which may be included in an attachment to the
permit, that the permittee shall be responsible for collecting and having
analyzed all samples outlined therein; (All analysis shall be by a laboratory
permitted by the State Water Resources Board for the specific pollutants listed
therein. All samples shall be analyzed in accordance with approved methods
listed in 40 CFR Part 136. The permittee shall report all samples analyzed
whether the sampling event was required under permit or not. The discharge
shall be sampled and analyzed for the analyses listed therein and shall not
exceed the concentration provided therein.)
         (n)   A statement, which may be included in an attachment to the
permit, that the permittee shall operate and maintain all surface treatment
equipment while discharging to the POTW; (Under no circumstances will the
operator bypass the treatment equipment. The operator will notify the Director
of Public Works or his or her designee immediately, upon becoming aware of any
discharge violation or violations on any condition of the permit.)
         (o)   A statement, which may be included in an attachment to the
permit, listing all permitted outfalls into the city's sanitary sewer system;
and
         (p)   The signatures and date of execution of the permit by the City
Manager or his or her designee and by the permittee.
      (3)   The City Manager or his or her designees are expressly authorized
to modify, amend or alter the form of permit as is determined necessary for the
protection and preservation of the city or any of its duly constituted
authorities, public property, public health and welfare, for all purposes,
including but not limited to compliance with any and all federal, state or
local laws, statutes, orders, ordinances, rules or regulations.
(Ord. 2989, passed 5-17-94)
ARTICLE 3: MINERAL WATER
§ 18-40 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, ship or
distribute for profit Guthrie Mineral Waters obtained in the parks of the city,
except upon first obtaining a license for the purpose and paying therefor the
sum as set per annum, payable annually.
(`90 Code, § 18-18)
§ 18-41 CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful to ship the water in containers other than glass or
earthen, and it is hereby ordained that all of the water shipped out from the
city shall be shipped in sanitary receptacles for the same, well cleansed
before the water is put into the same.
(`90 Code, § 18-19)
§ 18-42 CERTIFICATES OR SEALS.
   (A)   The city shall cause to be printed certificates or seals of the city
to be supplied to all licensed sellers, shippers and distributors of the
mineral waters, which the certificates or seals shall be substantially in the
following form, to wit:
   “This certifies that the receptacle to which this is attached contains
                                                . Licensed Distributor,
Guthrie, Oklahoma.”
   (B)   The blanks in the certificate or seal shall be filled in with the
amount and kind of water contained and name of distributor, which certificate
or seal shall be furnished to all licensed distributors of the waters at prices
to be fixed from time to time by the City Council, to be used by them in the
sale, shipping and other distribution of the waters, and it shall be unlawful
for anyone, except the holder of a license to in any way make use of the
abovementioned certificate.
(`90 Code, § 18-20)
§ 18-43 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The right is hereby reserved to revoke any license issued hereunder with or
without cause by order of the City Council upon a five-day notice to the holder
thereof, upon the terms or conditions as the Council may determine.
(`90 Code, § 18-21)
ARTICLE 4: PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 18-55 UNLAWFUL CONTAMINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, arm, partnership, corporation,
individual or trust or municipality, to erect, construct, build, maintain or
operate a sewage treatment plant or sewage disposal system, or a sewage
treatment lagoon within the corporate limits of the city, where the discharge
of any sewage or sewage effluent from any sewage disposal system, sewage
treatment plant or sewage treatment lagoon may or could enter into any stream
of water from which the city obtains water for the public water system of the
city.
(`90 Code, § 18-22)
§ 18-56 OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, individual or trust or
municipality erecting, constructing, building, maintaining or operating a
sewage treatment plant or sewage disposal system, or a sewage treatment lagoon,
within the corporate limits of the city, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
Each day of erecting, constructing, building, maintaining or operating, shall
be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
   (B)   Also, more than one separate offense may be committed in a day by any
person, firm, partnership, corporation, individual or trust or municipality.
(`90 Code, § 18-23)
§ 18-57 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   By reason of the fact that discharging of sewage or, sewage residue or
sewage effluent into the water supply of the city, is or could be injurious to
the health of the inhabitants of the city, the existence or the maintenance or
operation of a sewage treatment plant or sewage disposal system, or a sewage
lagoon draining sewage residue or sewage effluent into the source of water
supply of the city is hereby declared a public nuisance.
(`90 Code, § 18-24)
§ 18-58 ABATEMENT.
   The City Manager or Chief of Police or any police officer may abate any
nuisance and prevent the discharge of any sewage or sewage residue or sewage
effluent from flowing into any water from which the city, obtains water for its
municipal water supply.
(`90 Code, § 18-25)
§ 18-59 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any approved septic tank
serving not to exceed eight families.
(`90 Code, § 18-26)
ARTICLE 5: WATER SHORTAGES
§ 18-70 EMERGENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the City Manager is hereby authorized to restrict or
prohibit the use of water from the city's water system.
(`90 Code, § 18-30) (Ord. 2686, passed 6-16-81)
§ 18-71 DEFINITION; STAGES.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STAGE ONE EMERGENCY. This exists whenever the City Manager reasonably
determines that the city's water supply is unable or will, within 120 days,
become unable to supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the users
thereof, including adequate fire protection.
(`90 Code, § 18-31)
   STAGE TWO EMERGENCY. This exists whenever the City Manager reasonably
determines that the city's water system is unable or will within 60 days become
unable to supply full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof,
including adequate fire protection.
(`90 Code, § 18-33)
(Ord. 2686, passed 6-18-81)
§ 18-72 PROCLAMATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the determination that an emergency exists, the City Manager
shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with
particularity an order restricting use of water from the city's system. The
order may restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly or nondiscriminatory scheme and prohibit usages not
essential to public health and safety. The order may include, but is not
limited to the following limitations:
      (1)   Lawn, shrub or garden watering:
         (a)   Permitted only from 10:00 p.m. through 6:00 a.m.;
         (b)   Permitted only on alternate dates:
            1.   Odd-numbered addresses permitted to water on odd-numbered
dates;
            2.   Even-numbered addresses permitted to water on even-numbered
dates;
            3.   Unnumbered addresses on the north and west sides of the road
or street deemed to be odd-numbered; and
            4.   Unnumbered addresses on the south and east sides deemed to be
even-numbered.
         (c)   A combination of two restrictions listed above, restriction
according to time and address; and
         (d)   Permitted only on certain designated days of the week, for
example, Tuesdays and Fridays.
      (2)   There shall be no household car washing.
      (3)   No filling or refilling, in whole or in part, of any household
swimming pool. The order may be revised from time to time as the City Manager
deems necessary.
(`90 Code, § 18-32)
   (B)   Upon the determination that a state two emergency exists, the City
Manager shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with
particularity an order restricting use of water from the city's system. The
order may restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme and prohibit usages not
essential to public health and safety. The order may include, but is not
limited to the following imitations:
      (1)   Lawn, shrub or garden watering:
         (a)   Any limitation available to the city manager under a Stage One
emergency; and
         (b)   Lawn, shrub or garden watering completely prohibited.
      (2)   Car washing:
         (a)   No household car washing; and
         (b)   No household or commercial car washing.
      (3)   Swimming pools:
         (a)   No filling or refilling, in whole or in part, of any household
swimming pool;
         (b)   No filling or refilling, in whole or in part, of a household,
commercial or public swimming pool; and
      (4)   Prohibition of all water usage not required for bodily needs,
household purposes necessary for health and safety, or commercial purposes not
otherwise restricted or prohibited.
(`90 Code, § 18-34)
(Ord. 2686, passed 6-18-81)
§ 18-73 SURCHARGES.
   In addition to the rates and charges affixed and established by the city for
water, and an order issued under a stage two emergency, the City Manager shall
have the discretion to require the appropriate city officials to charge and
collect an additional conservation surcharge at a rate to be set by the City
Manager, the rate not to exceed 100% of the rates and charges normally charged
for water. The surcharge is to continue until amended or rescinded by the City
Council, or for a period of 30 days unless the conservation surcharge is
extended by resolution approved by a majority of the members of the City
Council of the city. All billings covering both a surcharge period and a non-
surcharge period shall be pro rated on the basis of the number of days within
each period.
(`90 Code, § 18-35) (Ord. 2688, passed 6-18-81)
§ 18-74 PUBLICATION AND NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The proclamations required by the preceding sections shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The emergency
shall be in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with
this section is sufficient to effect the emergency.
   (B)   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon the notice, provided that, if any means is used other than that required
in division (A) above, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance with
division (A) above, within 48 hours of the first notice.
(`90 Code, § 18-36) (Ord. 2686, passed 6-18-81)
§ 18-75 TERMS.
   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the proclamation
shall be in force for 30 days or until the time as the City Manager or the City
Council shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has
ended, whichever is shorter, unless the City Council by resolution approved by
a majority of all its members, extends the proclamation and emergency.
(`90 Code, § 18-37) (Ord. 2686, passed 6-18-81)
§ 18-76 GRIEVANCES; APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the City Manager shall
have the right to present the matter to the next regular or special meeting of
the City Council or to any emergency session called to discuss the water
emergency. The City Council may exempt the aggrieved person, wholly or in part,
from compliance with the proclamation order, upon a showing that the compliance
creates an immediate threat to the person's health or safety. The ruling of the
City Council by a majority vote of all its members shall be final and binding
as to the continuance of any terms of the proclamation. Until and unless the
action of the City Manager is modified or revoked by action of the City
Council, all water users shall be bound by the proclamation.
(`90 Code, § 18-38) (Ord. 2686, passed 6-18-81)
§ 18-77 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Any person who is a resident of the city and in any manner, directly
or indirectly, violates or permits others under his or her supervision, custody
or control to violate any term of the duty published proclamation shah be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Each separate day of water use in violation of the
proclamation shaft constitute a separate offense and each separate prohibited
use on the same day shall constitute a separate offense. Violation of this
article shall be punishable as provided in this code.
   (B)   Any person who is a metered user of city water, but who resides
outside the city limits shall, upon the first violation of any water usage
restriction as provided for in the article or by virtue of the authority
granted to the City Manager under this article, be warned in writing that any
subsequent violation will result in the city water service being disconnected.
Upon a second violation of any water visage restriction by a metered wiser of
city water residing outside the city units of the city, the City Manager shall
direct appropriate city employees to disconnect service to the violator. The
city water service shall remain disconnected for the duration of the emergency,
whether stage one or stage two, as defined in this article.
(`90 Code, § 18-39) (Ord. 2690, passed 8-18-81; Am. Ord. 2823, passed - -)
ARTICLE 6: PUBLIC SEWERS
18-90 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C., expressed in terms of weight and concentration, milligrams
per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the public sewer.
   CITY. The City of Guthrie, its City Council or its duly designated
representative.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Water-borne wastewater normally discharging into the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings, including apartment houses and hotels,
office buildings, factories and institutions and commercial establishments.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. Water-home solids, liquids or gaseous wastes
resulting from and discharged, permitted to flow or escaping from the
industrial, manufacturing or food processing operation of process, or from the
development of any natural resource or any mixture of these with water or
domestic wastewater, or distinct from normal domestic wastewater.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including sewer
connections, from such sources as roof leaders, cellar, yard and area drains,
foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross connections from, storm sewers or combined sewers,
catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city's treatment processes
or operations which contribute to a violation of any requirement of the city's
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit(s), which is a
permit(s) issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Normal wastewater for the city in which the
average concentration of suspended solids and five-day BOD is established at
not more than 250 mg/l, for each constituent.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   POLLUTION. The manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological and radiological integrity of water.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any common sewer which is under the direct control of the
city.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency under the provision of Section 307(a) of the Clean Water Act,
as amended, or any other acts.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the city's wastewater collection system.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the city's wastewater collection system.
(`90 Code, § 18-43) (Ord. 2758, passed 1-8-85)
§ 18-91 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person may discharge to the public sewer any waste which by itself
or by interaction with other wastes may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      (3)   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   (B)   Any new connections from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portions of the sewer system shall be prohibited.
   (C)   (1)   It is the intention of the city to regulate present and future
industrial wastewater which might be discharged by a user of the facilities.
      (2)   Wastewater introduced into the facilities shall contain no toxic or
other pollutants in amount or concentration as determined by the city that
endanger public safety or the physical integrity of the treatment works or
cause violation of effluent or water quality limitations or preclude the use of
the most cost-effective wastewater treatment and sludge disposal system.
(`90 Code, § 18-44) (Ord. 2758, passed 1-8-85)
§ 18-92 NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   A backwater valve shall be installed on all new or replacement
building sewers that connect to the public sewer system. The property owner
shall be responsible for the installation, inspection, maintenance, repair, and
replacement of all backwater valves.
      (2)   All existing building sewer connections into the public sewer that
cause frequent and uncontrolled water and sewer back-ups shall install and
maintain a backwater valve conforming to the requirements of the city-approved
building codes.
      (3)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the city-approved building code and other
applicable rules and regulations of the city.
   (B)   All new sanitary sewage treatment works and line works shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of the State
Department of Health, regulations and the city rules and regulations.
   (C)   When a public sewer becomes available, within 100 feet from the
property line for apartments, trailer parks or other multi-family type users
and within 200 feet from the building for any other house or building occupied
or used by any person, the building sewer shall be connected to the sewer
within 60 days from the time of receiving from the city a written notice to do
so.
   (D)   After receiving the city's written notification referenced in division
(C) of this section a private property owner who connects to the public sewer
will begin receiving their monthly billing for usage. Any private property
owner who does not connect to the sewer within the 60 days of receiving written
notice pursuant to division (C) of this section shall be billed monthly based
on their projected usage as evidenced by similarly situated buildings usage.
   (E)   Should any private owner who receives a notification from the city
show that because of the level of the terrain or other natural causes their
private line would not gravity flow into the public sewer line the private
owner may apply to the city manager for an exemption from the connection
requirement and billing provisions for failure to connect. The city manager may
grant an exemption if shown by preponderance of evidence that it is impractical
to connect the private line to the public sewer line based on existing terrain
and inability of the private line to gravity flow to the public line.
(`90 Code, § 18-45) (Ord. 2758, passed 1-8-85; Am. Ord. 3094, passed 11-6-01;
Am. Ord. 3116, passed 7-1-03; Am. Ord. 3162, passed 7-19-05)
ARTICLE 7: USER CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 18-105 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C., expressed in terms of weight and concentration in
milligrams per liter mg/l.
   CITY. The City of Guthrie, its City Council or its duly designated
representative.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Water-borne wastewater normally discharging into
sanitary conveniences of dwellings, including apartment houses and hotels,
office buildings, factories and. institutions and commercial establishments.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including sewer service
connections, from the ground through such means, but not limited to defective
pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not
include, and is distinguished from, inflow.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including sewer
connections, from such sources as roof leaders, cellars, yard and area drains,
foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers or combined sewers,
catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Normal wastewater for the city in which the
average concentration of suspended solids and five-day BOD is established at
not more than 250 mg/l for each constituent.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. The activities required to assure the dependable
and economical function of the wastewater collection and treatment facilities.
OPERATION is the control of the component unit processes, equipment and
facilities including financial and personnel management records, laboratory
control, process control, safety and emergency operation planning. MAINTENANCE
is the preservation of the functional integrity and efficiency of the
equipment, structures and facilities including preventive maintenance,
corrective maintenance and replacement of equipment as needed.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency under the provision of Section 307(a) of the Clean Water Act,
as amended, or any other acts.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the city's wastewater collection system.
   USER CHARGE. Those charges levied on users of the wastewater facilities for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the facilities.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the city's wastewater collection system.
(`90 Code, § 18-47) (Ord. 2759, passed 1-8-85)
§ 18-106 SEWER USE CHARGE.
   (A)   All users of the municipally-owned wastewater treatment system shall
be charged a minimum per month, plus a charge per 1,000 gallons of metered
water consumption. The fees are as set out in the fee schedule at the end of
this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In the case of users not on a metered basis, the City Manager shall
establish an estimated water consumption based on a comparison of the non-
metered user with a metered user of similar class. Example: A non-metered
family of four will be compared to a typical family of four with a water meter
to establish water consumption.
(`90 Code, § 18-48) (Ord. 2759, passed 1-8-85)
§ 18-107 USER CHARGE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   As the BOD, suspended solids and other pollutant concentrations
discharged shall be approximately equal for all domestic type users, users
shall be charged on a volume basis in accordance with the following formula,
which is based on the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, as amended,
40 CFR Part 35.935-13 and 40 CFR Subpart E, Appendix B, Model #1:
 
Cu = Cb + (Ct )(Vu)
          Vt
 
   (B)   (1)   Cu equals a user's charge for sewer service (total O & M) per
unit of time.
      (2)   Cb equals a user's base minimum charge for certain fixed costs per
unit of time.
      (3)   Ct equals total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of
time.
      (4)   Vt equals total volume contribution from all users per unit of
time.
      (5)   Vu equals volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
   (C)   Example: It is determined that the total annual fixed costs (debt
retirement, administration, billing and the like) for the system is $61,500 and
there are a total of 3,100 sewer customers. Each user's minimum monthly base
charge is determined to be $61,500 divided by 3,100 users. That equals $19.84
divided by 12. This equals $1.65 per month. It is further determined that the
total annual variable costs (labor, power, supplies, O&M and the like) for the
system is $140,000 and that the approximate total volume contribution for all
users is 350,000,000 gallons per year. The variable charge (Ct/Vt) is,
therefore, determined to be $140,000 divided by 350,000. This equals $.40 per
1,000 gallons. Based upon this example and the above user charge schedule the
monthly charge for a customer using 5,000 gallons of water would be $1.65, plus
$.40 times five. This equals $3.65.
(`90 Code, § 18-49) (Ord. 2759, passed 1-8-85)
§ 18-108 EXCESSIVE STRENGTH CHARGES.
   (A)   For any user, when the BOD5, suspended solids or other pollutant
concentration exceeds the range of concentrations of these pollutants in normal
domestic wastewater, a surcharge shall be added to the basic charge for, volume
as determined under this article. This excessive strength charge shall be
calculated in accordance with the following formula which is based on the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, as amended, 40 CFR Part 35.935-13
and 40 CFR Subpart E, Appendix B, Model #2:
Cs = [Bc(B)) = Sc(S) + Pc(P] Vu
   (B)   (1)   Cs equals a surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength.
      (2)   Bc equals O&M costs for treatment of a unit of BOD5.
      (3)   B equals concentration of BOD5 from a user in excess of normal
domestic wastewater concentration.
      (4)   Sc equals O&M cost for treatment of a unit of TSS.
      (5)   S equals concentration of any TSS from a user in excess of normal
wastewater concentration.
      (6)   Pc equals O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant.
      (7)   P equals concentration of any pollutant from a user in excess of
the base level of that pollutant in normal domestic wastewater.
      (8)   Vu equals volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
   (C)   Example: It is determined that a system user has excessive strength
wastewater, as defined in this article, for BOD5 and suspended solids.
Laboratory test results indicate wastewater concentrations of 600 mg/l for BOD5
and 800 mg/l for suspended solids. The user's flow volume is 2,000 gallons per
day or a total of 40,000 gallons during the subject month is (.04 mg).
   (D)   (1)   Based on city records of current wastewater treatment costs
$140,000/year it is determined that 30% of the cost can be allocated to the
cost of treating BOD5 and 40% can be allocated to the cost of treating
suspended solids.
      (2)   Total annual loading for the system is determined to be 583,804
pounds each for BOD5 and suspended solids. Thus, the cost to treat a pound of
BOD5 is determined to be $.07, while the cost to treat a pound of suspended
solids is $.10.
   (E)   Therefore, in this example, and using the excessive strength formula
presented above, the system user would be required to pay a surcharge for 350
mg/l excess BOD5 (600 mg/l - 250 mg/l) and for 550 mg/l excess TSS (800 mg/l -
250 mg/l). Prior to determining the surcharge these concentrations must be
converted to pounds using the factor 8.34. Thus 350 mg/l of BOD5 equals 2,929
pounds (350 mg/l x 8.34 lbs./million gallons) and 550 mg/l of TSS equals 4,857
pounds (550 mg/l x 8.34 lbs/million gallons). Note: 1 mg/l - 1 ppm. The amount
of the surcharge can now be determined for the month in question by using the
formula presented in this section.
   Cs = [Bc(B) + Sc(S) + Pc(P)] Vu
      = (0.07 (2,919) + 0.10(4,587)) .04
      = (204.33 + 458.7) .04
      = (663.03) .04
      = $26.52
(`90 Code, § 18-50)
§ 18-109 REVIEW AND REVISION.
   (A)   The user charge ordinance shall be reviewed not less often than every
two years regarding the wastewater contribution of users, the total costs of
the operation and maintenance of the treatment works, and its approved user
charge system.
   (B)   The charges for users shall be revised to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance, including
replacement, of the treatment works; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenue collected from users to the costs of operation
and maintenance attributable to those users for the review period.
(`90 Code, § 18-51) (Ord. 2759, passed 1-8-85)
§ 18-110 TOXIC POLLUTANTS CHARGES.
   Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the facilities used as the wastewater treatment works
shall pay for the increased costs in accordance with §
18-108.
(`90 Code, § 18-52) (Ord. 2759, passed 1-8-85)
§ 18-111 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Each user shall be notified at least annually in conjunction with a
regular bill, or other means acceptable to the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are attributable
to wastewater treatment services.
   (B)   Costs shall be broken down to show the operation and maintenance costs
which are attributable to each user.
(`90 Code, § 18-53) (Ord. 2759, passed 1-8-85)
§ 18-112 CHARGES FOR EXTRANEOUS FLOWS.
   The costs of operation and maintenance for all flows not directly
attributable to users, such as infiltration/inflow, shall be distributed among
users on the same basis as operation and maintenance charges.
(`90 Code, § 18-54) (Ord. 2759, passed 1-8-85)
§ 18-113 RECORDS.
   A record keeping system shall be established and maintained by the city to
document compliance with federal regulations pertaining to this article, as
applicable under 40 CFR 35.2140(d), Federal Water Pollution Control Act of
1972, as amended.
(`90 Code, § 18-55) (Ord. 2759, passed 1-8-85)
§ 18-114 BILLING.
   Users will be billed on a monthly basis with payment due ten days after the
date of billing. Users of the wastewater system will be billed on the same
notice as water charges and will be designated as a separate entry. Users of
the wastewater system not on water service will be billed monthly on an
individual notice for wastewater service at the rate established by the City
Manager. Users with delinquent accounts will be notified in writing by the
billing department that water and/or wastewater services will be terminated
unless the account is paid in full. The city will utilize the law enforcement
agency to assist as required in the control and management of the user charge
system.
(`90 Code, § 18-56) (Ord. 2759, passed 1-8-85)
§ 18-125 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be punished as
provided in this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 18-42) (Ord. 2523, passed - -)
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be an offense to violate any provision of §
18-29 or any other provision the ordinances or the city code regulating
pretreatment of wastewater and regulating storm water discharges and, upon
conviction thereof, a fine of not to exceed $1,000 shall be levied for each
offense. Each day a violation exists or continues, shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2989, passed 5-17-94)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any part or provision of
Article 6 shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in this code. In addition, any person found guilty of an
offense shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by the city by reason of the offense. Each day of continuing
violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to proceeding under authority hereof, the city is
entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies to which it is
entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances against a person
continuing prohibited discharges.
      (3)   The city reserves the right to terminate service to any user that
discharges any prohibited wastes into the sewer system.
(`90 Code, § 18-46) (Ord. 2758, passed 1-8-85)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
CHAPTER 19: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC AREAS
Article 1: Curbs
   
19-1.   Outside curbline of certain streets
   
19-2.   Outside curbline of Broad Streets and Oklahoma Avenue
   
19-3.   Outside curbline of Pine Street
   
19-4.   Outside curbline of Warner Avenue
   
19-5.   Outside curbline of Oklahoma Avenue
   
19-6.   Outside curbline of First Street
   
19-7.   Outside curbline of Elm Street
   
19-8.   Intersection curves
   
19-9.   Elevation or grade
   
19-10.   Parking area; grass and trees
Article 2: Sidewalk Construction
   
19-20.   Concrete construction
   
19-21.   Curbs
   
19-22.   Railings
   
19-23.   Walls, arches and beams
   
19-24.   Manholes
   
19-25.   Iron gratings
   
19-26.   Stairways
   
19-27.   Sidewalks constructed in violation
   
19-28.   Width of walks
   
19-29.   Cases not covered
   
19-30.   Grade of sidewalks
   
19-31.   Sidewalks on other streets
   
19-32.   Condemnation of sidewalks
   
19-33.   Building sidewalks; Council demands
   
19-34.   Slope of sidewalks
   
19-35.   Grade on Cleveland Avenue
   
19-36.   Variances; Council approval
   
19-37.   Request for variances
Article 3: Bench Marks
   
19-50.   City bench marks
   
19-51.   Other bench marks
   
19-52.   Bench mark No. 1
   
19-53.   Bench mark No. 2
   
19-54.   Bench mark No. 3
   
19-55.   Bench mark No. 4
   
19-56.   Bench mark No. 5
   
19-57.   Bench mark No. 6
   
19-58.   Bench mark No. 7
   
19-59.   Bench mark No. 8
   
19-60.   Bench mark No. 9
   
19-61.   Bench mark No. 10
   
19-62.   Bench mark No. 11
   
19-63.   Bench mark No. 12
   
19-64.   Bench mark No. 13
   
19-65.   Bench mark No. 14
   
19-66.   Bench mark No. 15
   
19-67.   Bench mark No. 16
   
19-68.   Bench mark No. 17
   
19-69.   Bench mark No. 18
   
19-70.   Bench mark No. 19
   
19-71.   Bench mark No. 20
   
19-72.   Bench mark No. 21
   
19-73.   Bench mark No. 22
   
19-74.   Bench mark No. 23
   
19-75.   Bench mark No. 24
Article 4: (Reserved)
Article 5: Trees
   
19-100.   Planting trees by Council order
   
19-101.   Failure to comply
   
19-102.   Dead trees to be planted or replaced
   
19-103.   Shade trees
   
19-104.   Trees to be trimmed
   
19-105.   Failure to trim trees
   
19-106.   Notice
   
19-107.   Cutting trees in parks
   
19-108.   Cutting trees in parking areas
   
19-109.   Tree trimmer’s license
Article 6: Poles and the Like in Streets
   
19-120.   Location of poles
   
19-121.   Poles at corners of sidewalks
   
19-122.   Guy wires to be marked
   
19-123.   Failure to comply
   
19-124.   Attaching poles and wires to buildings
Article 7: Use and Obstruction of Streets
   
19-135.   Placing signs on streets
   
19-136.   Non-flashing signs
   
19-137.   Obstruction of streets
   
19-138.   Keeping sidewalks and gutters clean
   
19-139.   Failure to clean
   
19-140.   Throwing paper on streets
   
19-141.   Obstruction of streets by people
   
19-142.   Engaging in certain games prohibited
   
19-143.   Driving on new pavement
   
19-144.   Cellar doors
   
19-145.   Obstructing sidewalks or parking
   
19-146.   Warning lights to be burned
   
19-147.   Excavation to be guarded
   
19-148.   Cellars to be guarded
Article 8: Cutting Pavements
   
19-160.   Excavation in paving
Article 9: House Numbering
   
19-170.   System adopted
   
19-171.   Placement of numbers
   
19-172.   Failure to comply
   
19-173.   Houses on Highland Park Place
Article 10: Access Road to Municipal Airport
   
19-185.   Commercial vehicles; overweight
   
19-186.   Permitting overweight vehicles
Article 11: Trenching, Cutting or Boring
   
19-200.   Notice of installation
   
19-201.   Application for permit
   
19-202.   Approval and issuance
   
19-203.   Deposit of bond
   
19-204.   Acceptance of notice or permit
   
19-205.   Liability indemnity
   
19-206.   Display of permit
   
19-207.   Right to revoke permit
   
19-208.   Utility responsible for costs
   
19-209.   Installation
   
19-210.   Preservation, restoration and cleanup
   
19-211.   Special provisions
   
19-212.   Control and protection of traffic
   
19-213.   Definitions
   
19-214.   Violation
   
19-215.   Administration
Article 12: Parking Spaces for Persons with Disabilities
   
19-225.   Permits and penalties
   
19-235.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: CURBS
§ 19-1 OUTSIDE CURB LINE OF CERTAIN STREETS.
   The outside curb of the curb lines on the following named streets and
avenues shall be 20 feet from the property line and parallel with the same, to-
wit: south side of College Avenue; Washington Avenue; Logan Avenue; Mansur
Avenue, Warmer Avenue; Seventh Street to Pine Street; Noble Avenue, Pine Street
to Second Street; Noble Avenue, Ninth to Fourteenth Street; Cleveland Avenue;
Oklahoma Avenue, Pine Street to Capitol Square; Oklahoma Avenue, Fifth Street
to Fourteenth Street; Harrison Avenue, Pine Street to Broad Street; Harrison
Avenue, Fifth Street to Fourteenth Street; Villas Avenue; Springer Avenue;
Grant Avenue; Lincoln Avenue; north side of University Avenue; Popular Street;
Cypress Street; Cedar Street; Drexel Boulevard; Park Street; Capital Boulevard;
Walnut Street; Maple Street; Elm Street; Oak Street; Ash Street; College Avenue
to Harrison Avenue; Ash Street, University Avenue to Springer Avenue; Broad
Street, College Avenue to Oklahoma Avenue; Broad Street, Harrison Avenue to
University Avenue; Wentz Street, College Avenue to Wanner Avenue; Division
Street, College Avenue to Cleveland Avenue; Division Street, Vilas Avenue to
University Avenue; Second Street, College Avenue to Noble Avenue; Second
Street, Vilas Avenue to University Avenue; Third Street, College Avenue to
Logan Avenue; Fourth Street, College Avenue to Cleveland Avenue; Fourth Street,
Springer Avenue to University Avenue; Fifth Street, College Avenue to Cleveland
Avenue; Sixth Sheet, College Avenue to Oklahoma Avenue; Seventh Street; Eighth
Street, Ninth Street; Tenth Street; Eleventh Street; Welch Street; Thirteenth
Street and east side of Fourteenth Street, Wentz Street from College Avenue to
Jackson Avenue.
(`90 Code, § 19-1)
§ 19-2 OUTSIDE CURB LINE OF BROAD STREET AND OKLAHOMA AVENUE.
   The outside curb of the curb lines on the following eared street shall be 16
feet from the property line and parallel with the same, to-wit: east side of
Broad Street, Oklahoma Avenue to Harrison Avenue.
(`90 Code, § 19-2)
§ 19-3 OUTSIDE CURB LINE OF PINE STREET.
   The outside curb of the curb lines on the following named streets and
avenues shall be 15 feet from the property line and parallel with the same, to-
wit: west side of Pine Street; East side of Wentz Street, Warner Avenue to
Lincoln Avenue; First Street, Logan Avenue to Cleveland Avenue; First Street,
Vilas Avenue to University Avenue; Second Street, Noble Avenue to Oklahoma
Avenue; Third Street, Harrison Avenue to University Avenue.
(`90 Code, § 19-3)
§ 19-4 OUTSIDE CURB LINE OF WARNER AVENUE.
   The outside curb of the curb lines on the following named streets and
avenues shall be 14 feet from the property line and parallel with the same, to-
wit: Warner Avenue, Seventh to Fourteenth Street; Noble Avenue, Second Street
to Ninth Street; Ash Street, Harrison Avenue to Springer Avenue.
(`90 Code, § 19-4)
§ 19-5 OUTSIDE CURB LINE OF OKLAHOMA AVENUE.
   The outside curb of the curb lines on the following named streets and
avenues shall be 12 feet from the property line and parallel with the same, to-
wit: Oklahoma Avenue, Capital Square to Fifth Street; Harrison Avenue, Broad
Street to Fifth Street, west side of Broad Street, Oklahoma Avenue to Harrison
Avenue; Division Street, Cleveland Avenue to Villas Avenue; Second Street,
Oklahoma Avenue to Vilas Avenue; Fourth Street, Cleveland Avenue ro Oklahoma
Avenue; Sixth Street, Oklahoma Avenue to Lincoln Avenue.
(`90 Code, § 19-5)
§ 19-6 OUTSIDE CURB LINE OF FIRST STREET.
   The outside curb of the curb lines on the following named street shall be
ten feet from the property line and parallel with the same, to-wit: First
Street, Cleveland Avenue to Villas Avenue; Fifth Street, Cleveland Avenue to
Springer Avenue.
(`90 Code, § 19-6)
§ 19-7 OUTSIDE CURB DINE OF ELM STREET.
   The outside curb of the curb lines on Elm Street from Oklahoma Avenue to
College Avenue shall be 25 feet from the property line and parallel with the
same.
(`90 Code, § 19-7)
§ 19-8 INTERSECTION CURVES.
   The intersection of all alley returns with the street curb line shall be
made with a radius of five feet curve, and the intersection of all street curb
lines shall be made with a curve of 15 feet.
(`90 Code, § 19-8)
§ 19-9 ELEVATION OR GRADE.
   The elevation or grade of the top of the curb lines on either side of the
above named streets and avenues shall conform to the elevation of grade of the
centerline of the street or avenue as the same may be established, the
elevation of the top of either curb at any given point being the same as that
of the top of the center of the street at the point opposite. The elevation of
the curb lines upon streets and avenues within the business portion of the
city, may be altered from the above by resolution of the City Council to
conform to the public convenience and necessity.
(`90 Code, § 19-9)
§ 19-10 PARKING AREA; GRASS AND TREES.
   The strip of ground lying between the sidewalk and curb line, when improved,
shall be graded level with bola and set in grass and shade trees, when planted,
shall be set in rows in the center of the strip between the sidewalk and the
curb line.
(`90 Code, § 19-10)
ARTICLE 2: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 19-20 CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All sidewalks hereafter constructed upon the streets or avenues of the
city shall be constructed of concrete and finished with Portland or other
standard cement, and all sidewalks hereafter constructed shall be under
specifications to be furnished by the City Engineer. The specifications shall
require the ingredients and proportions thereof as will secure a hard and
durable sidewalk, constructed according to the most approved methods.
   (B)   All walks shall be laid flat.
(`90 Code, § 19-11)
§ 19-21 CURBS.
   All sidewalks extending to the curb line, heretofore designated, shall be
curbed on the outer edge with cement or concrete, the curb shall be not less in
size than five inches on top and beveled one inch to the foot in height and
shall net be less than ten inches in the ground from the bottom of the gutter,
the top of the curb to be beveled at the outer edge one-fourth of an inch. All
sidewalks on corner lots shall continue to the curb lines.
(`90 Code, § 19-12)
§ 19-22 RAILINGS.
   All railings around areas shall be one and one-quarter inch gas pipe with
posts not less than three feet high and not more than five feet apart with the
rails.
(`90 Code, § 19-13)
§ 19-23 WALLS, ARCHES AND BEAMS.
   (A)   All sidewalks built over areas or open spaces shall be constructed
with suitable supports by walls, arches or iron beams according to
specifications to be approved by the City Engineer.
   (B)   All work shall be under his or her supervision and the quality and
proportion of the material and workmanship used in all the foregoing shall be
subject to the approval, direction and control of the City Engineer as
aforesaid.
(`90 Code, § 19-14)
§ 19-24 MANHOLES.
   All manholes through sidewalks in the city shall be fitted with iron covers.
(`90 Code, § 19-15)
§ 19-25 IRON GRATINGS.
   All areaways in sidewalks, not otherwise provided for by the article shall
be protected by iron gratings securely fastened in a workmanlike manner.
(`90 Code, § 19-16)
§ 19-26 STAIRWAYS.
   (A)   All area ways containing stairways leading from streets or alleys into
basements shall be protected by railings as described by §
19-22.
   (B)   The entrance from the street or alley way shall be perpendicular to
the building and that portion of the area way which is immediately in front of
the entrance shall be of durable material and safely constructed and, for a
space the width of the entrance and from the entrance to the building, shall be
level with the sidewalk.
(`90 Code, § 19-17)
§ 19-27 SIDEWALKS CONSTRUCTED IN VIOLATION.
   Any sidewalk heretofore constructed or which may hereafter be constructed,
contrary to any of the ordinances of the city, may be required by the City
Council to be taken up by the Street Superintendent and a proper sidewalk
constructed to conform to the requirements of this article, under the
supervision and direction of the Street Superintendent and the costs thereof
taxed against the abutting lot or lots. In case any person, persons or
corporation shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this
article, then and in that event, the city shall cause sidewalks to be
constructed as provided by law and the costs of the same shall be taxed to and
become a lien upon the abutting lot or lots.
(`90 Code, § 19-18)
§ 19-28 WIDTH OF WALKS.
   (A)   (1)   All walks on Oklahoma Avenue across the right-of-way and between
Division and Broad Streets, on Harrison Avenue from the place of beginning to
Broad Street, on Second Street from Vilas to Cleveland Avenue, on Division
Street from Vilas to Cleveland Avenue, shall be 12 feet in width, commencing at
the property line.
      (2)   All walks on Broad Street, between Oklahoma and Harrison Street
between Vilas and Cleveland Avenues shall be ten feet in width, commencing at
the property line.
      (3)   All walks on both sides of Noble Avenue, between Fifth and Eighth
Streets and on the west side of Second Street from Cleveland to Noble Avenue
shall be eight feet in width, commencing at the property line, except walks on
both sides on Noble Avenue between Sixth and Seventh Streets, shall be 14 feet
in width.
      (4)   All other walks designated in this article shall be five and one-
third feet in width, commencing one foot from the property line.
   (B)   Where business hours, public buildings and fire stations are located,
the walks may extend to the curb line in front of the places.
(`90 Code, § 19-19)
§ 19-29 CASES NOT COVERED.
   In any and all cases where this article fails to provide proper plans and
specifications for sidewalks, areas, coal chutes and curbs, then in that event,
the City Engineer shall furnish plans and specifications which shall be
approved by the City Council and, upon approval, shall be binding.
(`90 Code, § 19-20)
§ 19-30 SIDEWALKS ON OTHER STREETS.
   (A)   Upon all streets or portions of streets, avenues and portions of
avenues, where permanent sidewalks are not or may not be required by
ordinances, the sidewalks may be constructed of either the materials above
named or of cinder and gravel and shall be of a width as the City Council may
direct. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any plank or board
walk within the city, except across ravines, draws and gullies, when the same
shall be constructed according to the plans and specifications furnished by the
City Engineer. No plank or board sidewalk that is now, or may hereafter become
unsafe or out of repair, shall be repaired, except in the manner herein
provided.
   (B)   Any person desiring to repair any sidewalk which has become unsafe or
out of repair, shall first obtain the consent of the Street Superintendent of
the city to make the repairs, and any repairs so made shall be under the
direction and supervision of the Street Superintendent.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section, shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 19-21)
§ 19-31 GRADE OF SIDEWALKS.
   All walks to be constructed within the city shall be constricted upon the
grade to be furnished by the City Engineer.
(`90 Code, § 19-22)
§ 19-32 CONDEMNATION OF SIDEWALKS.
   The City Council may, at any time by resolution, condemn any portion of any
defective sidewalk whenever in its judgment it shall be deemed necessary and
provide for the construction of a new sidewalk in accordance with the
provisions of this article.
(`90 Code, § 19-23)
§ 19-33 BUILDING SIDEWALKS; COUNCIL DEMANDS.
   In case any person, company or corporation shall fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with any of the provisions of this article within 20 days after being
served with notice by the Street Superintendent that their walks have been
condemned and a new walk ordered built, then and in that event, the City
Council shall cause sidewalks to be constructed as above provided, and the
costs of the same shall be taxed and become a lien upon each separate abutting
lot and collected as special assessments are by statute in the case made and
provided.
(`90 Code, § 19-24)
§ 19-34 SLOPE OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The slope of all sidewalks in the city upon all streets where the
grace and curb lines have been established or may hereafter be established
shall be as provided by this section.
   (B)   The elevation of the sidewalk shall, in all cases, be a rise from any
point on the line of the curb which is next to the line of the center of the
street to a point on the property line directly opposite the point on the same
side of the street and shall be at the uniform rate of three-hundreds of a foot
vertical height per one foot horizontal distance on the walk.
(`90 Code, § 19-25)
§ 19-35 GRADE ON CLEVELAND AVENUE.
   (A)   The property owners between Elm and Maple Streets on the north side of
Cleveland Avenue and other streets as may be in like condition are hereby
permitted to lay their permanent sidewalks on the surface grade of the street
the same being considerably above the established grade thereof, and it being
impossible to bring the same to the true cross section grade of the streets
without destroying valuable shade cress.
   (B)   All work done under this section is to be done under the direction of
the Street Superintendent.
(`90 Code, § 19-26)
§ 19-36 VARIANCES; COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   When it is made to appear to the City Council, and when the City Council
approves, sidewalks may be constructed in the city to the specifications in
regard to width or otherwise, now provided for sidewalks in the city, by
ordinance.
(`90 Code, § 19-27)
§ 19-37 REQUEST FOR VARIANCE.
   No person may construct any sidewalk in the city unless the applicant shall
present a request in writing to the City Council, showing what variance the
proposed sidewalks is to have in connection with width or otherwise in regard
to the specifications now or hereafter existing in connection with the
construction of sidewalks in the city. Soon the presentation of the request,
the City Council, shall hear the same, and may, in its discretion, grant the
request for variance of the specifications of the proposed sidewalk with the
ordinances of the city. If the City Council grants the request, then the
applicant may construct the sidewalk, in accordance with the permission granted
by the City Council, provided the sidewalk is constructed within six months
from the date of the granting of the permission.
(`90 Code, § 19-28)
ARTICLE 3: BENCH MARKS
§ 19-50 CITY BENCH MARK.
   The stone, the surface of which is 12 inches each way and so champered or
beveled as to leave a horizontal surface on top four inches square and
perpendicular length of which is three feet, and which was set by R.H.
Smithwick, City Engineer, on June 2, 1891, as described in his report thereof
and the location of which is 12 feet south of the north side of Oklahoma
Avenue, measuring from the north line of the avenue to the south side of the
stone and eight feet east of the west line of First Street, west of Division
Street, measuring from the west line of the street to the east line of the
stone shall be and the same is hereby established as a permanent city bench
mark; and the elevation of the top of the stone or bench mark is declared to be
143.50 feet above an assumed datum plane; and the elevation of all street
grades, curbing, paving, water mains and laterals, sewer mains and laterals,
shall be determined with reference to the datum plane. In all ordinances
referring to streets, curbing and paving grades, or the elevations or grades of
water mains and laterals and sewer mains and laterals where elevations or
vertical distances shall have reference to the datum plane and elevations or
given in feet shall signify so many feet above this datum plane unless
otherwise expressed.
(`90 Code, § 19-29)
§ 19-51 OTHER BENCH MARKS.
   The top or highest part of the following described monuments are and shall
be established bench marks of the city, and each of the bench marks shall have
a fixed elevation as hereinafter given above the original datum plane fixed by
§
19-50 in feet and decimals of a foot.
(`90 Code, § 19-30)
§ 19-52 BENCH MARK NO. 1.
   Bench No. 1: The rectangular marble block set in the circular curb at the
northwest intersection of Oklahoma Avenue and First Street, 143.50.
(`90 Code, § 19-31)
§ 19-53 BENCH MARK NO. 2.
   Bench No. 2: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof ten feet north
of the intersection of College Avenue and Division Street, 100.650.
(`90 Code, § 19-32)
§ 19-54 BENCH MARK NO. 3.
   Bench No. 3: The first rim of the cap or the fire hydrant at the southwest
intersection of Washington Avenue and Division Street, 94.243.
(`90 Code, § 19-33)
§ 19-55 BENCH MARK NO. 4.
   Bench No. 4: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof ten feet south
of the northwest intersection of Mansur Avenue and Division Street, 119.443.
(`90 Code, § 19-34)
§ 19-56 BENCH MARK NO. 5.
   Bench No. 5: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof ten feet west
of the northeast intersection of Noble Avenue and Division Street, 139.024.
(`90 Code, § 19-35)
§ 19-57 BENCH MARK NO. 6.
   Bench No. 6: The flat rim of the cap of the fire hydrant at the northwest
intersection of Cleveland Avenue and Division Street, 144.200.
(`90 Code, § 19-36)
§ 19-58 BENCH MARK NO. 7.
   Bench No. 7: The flat rim of the cap of the fire hydrant at the southwest
intersection of Vilas Avenue and Division Street, 132.367.
(`90 Code, § 19-37)
§ 19-59 BENCH MARK NO. 8.
   Bench No. 8: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the cop thereof ten feet west
of the southeast intersection of Springer Avenue and Division Street, 113.788.
(`90 Code, § 19-38)
§ 19-60 BENCH MARK NO. 9.
   Bench No. 9: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof ten feet south
of the northeast intersection of Grant Avenue and Division Street, 100.650.
(`90 Code, § 19-39)
§ 19-61 BENCH MARK NO. 10.
   Bench No. 10: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof at one foot
south of the northwest intersection of University Avenue and Division Street,
92.777.
(`90 Code, § 19-40)
§ 19-62 BENCH MARK NO. 11.
   Bench No. 11: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof ten feet
south of the northwest intersection of Washington Avenue and Wentz Street,
119.255.
(`90 Code, § 19-41)
§ 19-63 BENCH MARK NO. 12.
   Bench No. 12: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof ten feet east
of the northwest intersection of Mansur Avenue and Wentz Street, 119.316.
(`90 Code, § 19-42)
§ 19-64 BENCH MARK NO. 13.
   Bench No. 13: A sandstone with an iron bolt at the top thereof ten feet
north of the southeast intersection of Warner Avenue and Wentz Street, 132.954.
(`90 Code, § 19-43)
§ 19-65 BENCH MARK NO. 14.
   Bench No. 14: The top of the west end of coping step at the main entrance
door of the Baptist Church at the northeast intersection of Noble Avenue and
Vine Street, 139.730.
(`90 Code, § 19-44)
§ 19-66 BENCH MARK NO. 15.
   Bench No. 15: The flat rim of the cap of the fire hydrant at the northwest
intersection of Cleveland Avenue and Vine Street, 135.506.
(`90 Code, § 19-45)
§ 19-67 BENCH MARK NO. 16.
   Bench No. 16: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof 152 feet
south and ten feet east of the southwest intersection of Washington Avenue and
Broad Street, 16.877.
(`90 Code, § 19-46)
§ 19-68 BENCH MARK NO. 17.
   Bench No. 17: The top of the rim of the cap of the fire hydrant at the
southwest intersection of Mansur Avenue and Broad Street, 131.370.
(`90 Code, § 19-47)
§ 19-69 BENCH MARK NO. 18.
   Bench No. 18: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof ten feet west
of the northeast intersection of Noble Avenue and Broad Street, 145.616.
(`90 Code, § 19-48)
§ 19-70 BENCH MARK NO. 19.
   Bench No. 19: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof ten feet east
of the northwest intersection of Oklahoma Avenue and Broad Street, 138.515.
(`90 Code, § 19-49)
§ 19-71 BENCH MARK NO. 20.
   Bench No. 20: An imaginary point two feet below the horizontal plane of the
lower beveled edge of the top of the coping of the Masonic Temple at the
southwest corner, 140.263.
(`90 Code, § 19-50)
§ 19-72 BENCH MARK NO. 21.
   Bench No. 21: Top of undressed coping on the north door of the court house,
140.650.
(`90 Code, § 19-51)
§ 19-73 BENCH MARK NO. 22.
   Bench No. 22: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof ten feet east
of the northwest intersection of Vilas Avenue and Broad Street, 130.579.
(`90 Code, § 19-52)
§ 19-74 BENCH MARK NO. 23.
   Bench No. 23: The top of the water table underneath the corner stone on the
brick church at the southwest intersection of Springer Avenue and Broad Street,
118.860.
(`90 Code, § 19-53)
§ 19-75 BENCH MARK NO. 24.
   Bench No. 24: A sandstone with an iron bolt in the top thereof ten feet east
of the northwest intersection of Perkins Avenue and Broad Street, 116.257.
(`90 Code, § 19-54)
ARTICLE 4: (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 5: TREES
§ 19-100 PLANTING TREES BY COUNCIL ORDER.
   (A)   The City Council may, upon petition of ten or more citizens residing
on any street or avenue in the city, by resolution, order trees to be planted
on the streets or avenues, in the manner and order provided in this article.
   (B)   Twenty days’ notice in writing shall be given by the Street
Superintendent to each occupying owner or tenant in front of whose lots trees
are to be planted, of the passage of the resolution.
(`90 Code, § 19-55)
§ 19-101 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If any lot owner or owners shall neglect or refuse to plant trees as
provided in this article for a term of 20 days after they shall be so, as
aforesaid, notified and required by the provisions of this article, the Street
Superintendent shall proceed to plant trees under the direction of the City
Engineer as herein provided, and shall protect the same by either suit able
fencing or boxing. The City Council shall order a special tax to be assessed
against the lot in the immediate front of which the trees shall have been so
planted and the tax shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as taxes
for the construction of sidewalks. The work of planting the trees shall be
examined and accepted by the Street Superintendent.
(`90 Code, § 19-56)
§ 19-102 DEAD TREES TO BE PLANTED OR REPLACED.
   If any of the trees planted under the provisions of this article shall die
or be of imperfect growth, the same shall be replaced in planting season and by
March 25 of each year by the owner or owners of the lot or piece of ground in
front of which the trees may have died or become of imperfect growth. In case
of neglect thereof on the part of the owner or owners, the Street
Superintendent shall replace the same in manner and with like effect as
provided in §
19-101.
(`90 Code, § 19-57)
§ 19-103 SHADE TREES.
   All shade trees planted upon any street or avenue in the city shall be as
follows, to-wit. They shall be not less than one-inch in diameter and six feet
in height, planted or set out in straight rows not more than 20 feet and not
less than 12 feet apart, and shall be ten feet from the property line in the
residence part of the city.
(`90 Code, § 19-58)
§ 19-104 TREES TO BE TRIMMED.
   Every owner or occupant of any house, building, lot or premises in the city,
shall keep the shade, ornamental and other trees in the streets, avenues,
alleys or sidewalks, in front, abutting and alongside of the house, building,
lot or premises, trimmed so that the branches thereof shall not be lower than
ten feet in residential areas and shall not be lower than 12 feet in sidewalk
in main thoroughfare areas.
(`90 Code, § 19-59) (Ord. 2881, passed 6-20-89)
§ 19-105 FAILURE TO TRIM TREES.
   Any person failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with the preceding
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 19-60)
§ 19-106 NOTICE.
   The Street Superintendent is hereby required to give the owner or occupant
of any house, building, lot or premises ten days notice to trim the trees as
provided by this article, and in case the owner or occupant shall neglect or
refuse to trim the trees at the expiration of ten days from the service of the
notice, the Street Superintendent shall have the trees trimmed as provided
herein at the expense of the abutting lot owners, which shall be valid lien
against the lot and taxed against the lot, together with the penalty as may be
provided by statutes in the case made and provided.
(`90 Code, § 19-61)
§ 19-107 CUTTING TREES IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to cut any green trees within
any of the public parks of the city, without the written authority of a
majority of the Park Board.
(`90 Code, § 19-62)
§ 19-108 CUTTING TREES IN PARKING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or person to cut down any green trees in
any of the parking of the city without the written permit of the City Manager.
It shall likewise be unlawful for any person or persons to trim the tops of any
green trees within the parking within the city, except dead or decaying limbs.
(`90 Code, § 19-63)
§ 19-109 TREE TRIMMER’S LICENSE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to trim trees within the
city for pay or profit without a state license as required by state law for
tree trimmers.
(`90 Code, § 19-64)
ARTICLE 6: POLES AND THE LIKE IN STREETS
§ 19-120 LOCATION OF POLES.
   (A)   Any telephone, telegraph or electric light poles now standing outside
of the curb of any sidewalk in the city shall be removed and placed in a
position immediately within the sidewalk curb stone.
   (B)   All telephone, telegraph or electric light poles hereafter to be
erected shall be placed immediately within the sidewalk curb stone as
aforesaid.
(`90 Code, § 19-65)
§ 19-121 POLES AT CORNERS OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The curb stone of every sidewalk corner shall be made circular in to
one-foot radius.
   (B)   Any telephone, telegraph or electric light poles located at the corner
or any corner of any sidewalk shall be placed immediately within the corner of
the circular curb stone as aforesaid.
(`90 Code, § 19-66)
§ 19-122 GUY WIRES TO BE MARKED.
   (A)   All telephone, telegraph and electric light or other transmission
companies occupying the city and having thereon poles and wires, and guy wires
for the support thereof, shall plainly mark all down guy wires with a board or
boards not less than six inches in width, ranging from the surface of the
ground to a height of five and one-half feet and parallel with said wire, and
securely fastened thereto, or a metal shield.
   (B)   The board or boards shall be painted white and shall be maintained by
the companies at all times in a condition that the same may be readily seen at
night.
(`90 Code, § 19-67)
§ 19-123 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any company, corporation or person violating the provisions of this article
shall be guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 19-68)
§ 19-124 ATTACHING POLES AND WIRES TO BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to place any
poles or supports for wires, or place, attach or in any way connect any wires
or apparatus to any building or structure in the city without first securing a
permit from the Building Inspector.
(`90 Code, § 19-69)
ARTICLE 7: USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREET
§ 19-135 PLACING SIGNS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, place or
maintain any signs or advertising matter of any description whatsoever on the
sidewalks, curbs, parkings or streets and alleys of the city, except
advertisements on traffic signals, provided the City Council may allow signs on
the rights-of-way within the city limits if the signs are in compliance with
the State Traveler Information Logo Signing Act of 1988, 69 O.S. §§ 4021
through 4026.
(`90 Code, § 19-70) (Am. Ord. 2920, passed 8-7-90)
§ 19-136 NON-FLASHING SIGNS.
   In commercial and industrial districts, non-flashing type signs may be flush
with the building wall surface, or if projecting, shall not project more than
four feet over city parking from a building or lot line. Sign projection shall
be a minimum of two feet back of curb or road edge, the bottom of projecting
signs shall be minimum of eight feet above the surface level of the sidewalk or
lot. Projecting signs shall be a maximum of 20 square feet and no sign support
shall be attached to city property.
(`90 Code, § 19-70a) (Ord. 2783, passed 10-15-85)
§ 19-137 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber by fences,
buildings, boxes, stands, structures or otherwise, or in any other manner
obstruct any of the public highways, streets, alleys, road or sidewalks,
crosswalks or parking areas within the corporate limits of the city. Nothing
herein contained shall prohibit the loading or unloading of any goods or
materials whatever without needless delay. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the placement of awning support poles on the sidewalks or parking
areas. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the placement of brick and mortar
mailbox enclosures on street rights-of-way or easements so long as they are set
back 12 inches from the curb line or road surface.
(`90 Code, § 19-71) (Am. Ord. 2929, passed 2-19-91; Am. Ord. 3149, passed 12-
21-04)
§ 19-138 KEEPING SIDEWALKS AND GUTTERS CLEAN.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any lot to keep the
sidewalk, curb, gutter, and ditch clear of any filth, refuse, or rubbish.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to dispose, sweep, or blow grass clippings or
other landscape material onto the street, gutter, sidewalk, or ditch.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any lot to keep the
sidewalk, curb, gutter, and ditch free of silt build-up.
   (D)   Violations. Any owner or occupant who violates any provision of this
section by doing any act. prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be a nuisance, or who fails to do any act required by any provision
is guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $500 per violation. Each day upon which a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(`90 Code, § 19-72) (Am. Ord. 3208, passed 1-19-10)
§ 19-139 FAILURE TO CLEAN.
   Whenever any person, company or corporation whose duty it is to keep any
sidewalk or gutter clean under the provisions of this article, shall fail or
neglect to keep the sidewalk or gutter clean, the Chief of Police or any police
officer shall serve upon the person, company or corporation a notice requiring
the same to be done forthwith. If the person, persons, company or corporation
shall fail or neglect to clean or remove the same within 48 hours after the
service of the notice, he or she shall be guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 19-73)
§ 19-140 THROWING PAPER ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to throw, leave
or deposit or cause to be thrown, left or deposited upon any street, avenue,
alley, sidewalk or public square, public enclosure, lots, vacant or occupied,
any paper, handbill, poster, signboard or anything that is liable to be blown
about by the wind, or that will obstruct the free passage of the street,
avenue, alley or sidewalk.
(`90 Code, § 19-74)
§ 19-141 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS BY PEOPLE.
   No person or assemblage of persons shall obstruct any sidewalk or passage on
any street or alley or any walk or public grounds in the city, by congregating
or any assembling therein or thereon.
(`90 Code, § 19-75)
§ 19-142 ENGAGING IN CERTAIN GAMES PROHIBITED.
   No person in the city shall engage in any game, sport, amusement or exercise
likely to impede the passage of vehicles in the streets or to injure passers-by
in any street or public ground in the city.
(`90 Code, § 19-76)
§ 19-143 DRIVING ON NEW PAVEMENT.
   (A)   No person or persons shall drive any automobile or other vehicle over
any newly paved street, avenue or alley in the city until the paving on the
street, alley or avenue, shall have been accepted by the City Council.
   (B)   The contractor or other person having charge of the work shall keep a
barricade erected at the end of any street, avenue or alley when the work is
under construction.
(`90 Code, § 19-77)
§ 19-144 CELLAR DOORS.
   No person or persons shall keep or leave open any cellar door, manhole or
grating of any kind in or upon any sidewalk, or permit the same to be left
open.
(`90 Code, § 19-78)
§ 19-145 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS OR PARKING.
   No person shall permit the sidewalk or parking the area from the curb line
or roadway to the outside edge of the sidewalk or to the widest partial, of the
right-of-way, should no sidewalk be present, in front or on the side of his
premises, to be or continue to be in a broken, uneven or unsafe condition,
except as may be permitted by a special provision of a building permit during a
specified period of construction; or to become or remain obstructed so as to
encumber, impede or otherwise hamper any pedestrian traffic, within an area at
least four feet wide as measured in a line parallel from the inside (property
side) edge of any permitted fixture toward the premises, with any building
material, merchandise, advertising or other obstruction, the permitted fixtures
to include signs, receptacles lighting, greenery or any other item installed,
provided or authorized by the city for public health and safety. Exceptions to
the above may be permitted by the City Council for any use, for a specific
purpose and time period when no public health or safety consideration exists
when the use is expected to exceed 72 hours or as permitted by the cit staff
committee on public display for periods of 72 hours or less.
(`90 Code, § 19-79) (Ord. 2787, passed 11-5-85)
§ 19-146 WARNING LIGHTS TO BE BURNED.
   Any person who shall use or occupy any part of the streets or avenues of the
city for building material shall cause one or more red lights to be kept
burning in the front and at each end of the materials or other obstructions
during the entire night while the materials or obstructions remain.
(`90 Code, § 19-80)
§ 19-147 EXCAVATION TO BE GUARDED.
   All excavations upon the front or side of any lot adjoining a street or
alley or under any sidewalk in the city shall be securely and properly guarded
and protected by the person or persons having charge of the same, so as to
prevent the same being or becoming dangerous to life or limb.
(`90 Code, § 19-81)
§ 19-148 CELLARS TO BE GUARDED.
   Every person who shall, under contract or otherwise, have charge of the
construction of any cellar, area, coal bin or other excavation adjoining or
under any sidewalk of the city shall, during the process of the work and for
the prevention of accidents, cause the area or other excavation to be securely
guarded.
(`90 Code, § 19-82)
ARTICLE 8: CUTTING PAVEMENTS
§ 19-160 EXCAVATIONS IN PAVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cut,
remove, open or otherwise displace any asphalt or pavement or pavements in the
city, for the purpose of laying any gas or water mains, or for to placing of
any posts or poles, or for any other purpose, without first obtaining
permission so to do from the City Manager.
   (B)   The work of cutting, removing, opening or otherwise displacing the
pavement or pavements shall be done and carried out under the direction and
supervision of the Street Superintendent, and that the work be carried or at
the expense of the party or parties desiring the alteration or change made.
(`90 Code, § 19-83)
ARTICLE 9: HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 19-170 SYSTEM ADOPTED.
   A system of numbering all buildings in the city, as shown on a map drawn by
the City Engineer and adopted by the City Council on August, 29, 1892, is
hereby established, the basis of which system is 100 numbers to each block,
beginning at Division Street and numbering east and west, and at Oklahoma
Avenue numbering north and south, the even numbers being on the north and east
and the odd numbers being on the south and west of each street.
(`90 Code, § 19-84)
§ 19-171 PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   The owner or agent of each habitable building situated upon any lot in
the city shall cause to be placed upon the building the number thereof. Each
number shall be of neat design and the figures used shall not be less than two
and one-half inches in height.
   (B)   Owners of property hereafter erecting buildings shall, within ten days
after the erection of the building cause to be placed thereon the number of the
building.
(`90 Code, § 19-85)
§ 19-172 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this article shall be
considered guilty of an offense.
(`90 Code, § 19-86)
§ 19-173 HOUSES ON HIGHLAND PARK PLACE.
   The houses in block 24, Capitol Hill, in the city oared and established as
Highland Park Place, shall be numbered as follows, to-wit: House numbers for
Block 24 shall be in accordance with the block numbering system adopted by the
city in §
19-170.
(`90 Code, § 19-87) (Am. Ord. 2915, passed 5-15-90)
ARTICLE 10: ACCESS ROAD TO MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
§ 19-185 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES; OVERWEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any commercial vehicle in excess of
10,000 pounds gross vehicular weight razing to use the access road to the
Municipal Airport, unless by special permission from the city.
(`90 Code, § 19-88) (Ord. 2589, passed - -)
§ 19-186 PERMITTING OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   Any person, firm, corporation or partnership driving, or permitting or
causing to be driven any motor vehicle in excess of 10,000 pounds gross
vehicular weight rating upon the airport access rood as the roadway now exists
and as the roadway may be later improved by the city shall be guilty of as
offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
12-34.
(`90 Code, § 19-89) (Ord. 2589, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2823, passed - -)
ARTICLE 11: TRENCHING, CUTTING OR BORING
§ 19-200 NOTICE OF INSTALLATION.
   All owners and operators of a utility lines, facilities and systems for
producing, transmitting or distributing communications, electric power, gas,
oil, petroleum products, chemicals, water supply, steam, heat, waste, sewage,
irrigation water, storm water not connected with highway drainage, street and
highway lighting and other similar commodities and services, including
railroads, publicly owned fire and police signal or traffic control systems
which directly or indirectly serve the public or any part thereof, shall be
required to secure a written permit or in urgent situations to obtain advance
approval for the issuance of a written permit from the City Planner prior to
performing any work in the installation, construction, maintenance, repair,
restoration, rehabilitation, relocation or removal of any utility lines,
facilities or systems where the roadways, shoulders, rights-of-way or traffic
will be affected by the work operations or by the new facility occupancy.
Utility companies holding franchises or paying a gross receipt tax with the
city may, in lieu of obtaining a permit, file a notice of installation,
hereinafter referred to as “notice,” with the City Planner, which notice shall
contain the same information as is required in an application for permit under
§
19-201.
(`90 Code, § 19-91) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-201 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A written application shall be filed with the city which clearly describes
the proposed facility installation, construction or work and establishes its
location with reference to existing right-of-way lines, land section tie, same
well known permanent landmark, road or street intersection, highway bridge or
other fixed reference point. The written application shall consist of a
complete description of the facility and a sketch or plans which show the
existing and proposed location of the facilities within the street right-of-way
or alley, the traveled way and right-of-way lines. All applications shall be
signed by an official having contractual authority for the utility or by the
owner of the facility. All permits shall constitute a binding contract
therefore, verbal or unsigned requests for utility permits will not be valid
and a permit may be withheld until a proper application is received and
approved. An application fee shall accompany the application as set by the City
Council.
(`90 Code, § 19-92) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-202 APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   All utility construction permits shall be issued only to the permanent
owner and operator of the facility and not to the party, company or contractor
performing the installation or construction work, nor to the temporary agent or
engineer handling preparation of the permit application for the permanent
owner, except permits may be issued to a private individual upon request for a
single water/sewer connection to a residence or small business.
   (B)   (1)   Applications submitted by individuals for permits for single
sewer connections shall include design and location information as required by
the city. When a utility construction permit is issued to a private individual,
all work must be performed by licensed contractors who have been certified by a
utility company, city or county, as required by law.
      (2)   Permits shall be approved or denied within five working days,
except for major trunkline construction permits.
(`90 Code, § 19-93) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-203 DEPOSIT OF BOND.
   A deposit or bond shall be required of all non-franchised utilities, non-
gross receipt tax utilities and for all contractors in an amount sufficient to
cover any and all costs that may be incurred by the city in making repairs or
restoration to its rights-of-way or property if the satisfactory repair or
restoration is not made by the applicant. The license and permit bond, as
determined by the city, shall accompany the application. The bond may be made
by depositing cash with the City Clerk or by filing with the City Clerk a
license and permit bond in the principal sum as determined by the city,
executed by an insurance or indemnity company authorized to do business in the
state, the bond shall be running to the city for the benefit of the city,
conditioned that the applicant will comply with this article and other
ordinances of the city and with terms and conditions as set forth in the
permit. The minimum amount of deposit or bond shall be $500 for each pavement
cut, $100 for each road cut and $100 for each bore made under a paved surface
base course. The license and permit bond shall be written to expire six months
after work is completed or the cash shall be left on deposit with the City
Clerk for six months after work is completed to allow for an evaluation period
of the repaired area’s ability to withstand traffic in weather conditions.
(`90 Code, § 19-94) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-204 ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICE OR PERMIT.
   The start of performance of any work under a notice of installation or under
a permit shall constitute full understanding and acceptance of this article and
shall represent the express intention and obligation of the utility company or
others to comply with the terms and provisions of this article and of the
ordinances of the city and of all conditions of notice of installation or of
permit. Any request for waiver of the requirements of this article shall be
submitted in writing to the City Planner and the applicant must receive written
action on the request.
(`90 Code, § 19-95) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-205 LIABILITY INDEMNITY.
   Holders of utility construction permits or articles of installation shall
indemnity and save harmless the city and its officials and employees in all
respects from any and all losses, damages or injury to persons or property
resulting in any manner in connection or associated with their work,
operations, occupancy or use of city roads or right-of-way property.
(`90 Code, § 19-96) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-206 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The approved permit, a copy of the same or a copy of the notice of
installation, shall be kept at the location of the work while work is in
progress and shall be shown to the city representative upon request as proof of
authorization to perform the work on the street or alley right-of-way or on
other property.
   (B)   Utilities shall be authorized to make emergency repairs without prior
securing of a permit. In emergency situations, when obtaining a permit prior to
starting repairs is impractical, the utility must contact the city directly,
either before or after repairs begin. The utility will immediately forward a
letter of explanation to the city with a permit request.
(`90 Code, § 19-97) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-207 RIGHT TO REVOKE PERMIT.
   (A)   The city may with cause temporarily suspend any work within or without
the terms of the permit or notice of installation for a reasonable time to
investigate any damage, construction or work procedures or material
requirements or interference with city rights-of-way or utilities, or if an
approved permit or copy of the same, or copy of the notice of installation is
not on the work location.
   (B)   The city is hereby authorized, subject to giving reasonable notice and
hearing is requested to revoke the permit or notice of installation, if the
utility fails to comply with the provisions of this article and the terms and
conditions of the permit or notice of installation.
(`90 Code, § 19-98) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-208 UTILITY RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The utility, by applying for, accepting and performing work under any
permit and by occupying street right-of-way by unwritten consent, assumes the
obligation by law and gives implied assurance of financial responsibility for
all costs of the initial installation, operation, maintenance, servicing and
removal or relocation if required, of the utility facility and shall bear, or
when applicable shall require its contractor or subcontractor to bear all costs
of any restoration and/or repairs to the utility facility and any street
property disturbed or damaged in the initial installation and/or subsequent
maintenance or servicing operations associated with, or resulting from normal
operations ant requirements in the occupancy of street right-of-way or
property.
   (B)   The utility shall further be responsible for ail costs of any
restoration or repair work as may be necessary due to failure or break in the
utility facility which results in damage to either or both the utility facility
or street property and shall also be responsible for other work as nay be
required by the city if the utility’s facilities are not maintained in a good
state of repair. The utility shall wake emergency repairs to breaks or line
failure which cause any hazard to the public, interference to traffic or damage
to street or alley property, as promptly as reasonably possible after learning
of the break or failure.
   (C)   This section in no way alters existing statutory methods of
determining reimbursable amounts that may be due to the utility companies.
(`90 Code, § 19-99) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-209 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Accepted methods for underground electrical and communications lines
include trenching for conduit or duct construction for uncased buried cable,
plowing for direct burial of buried cable, jacking or pushing of pipe as
conduit, especially for crossing of existing streets and small boring without
conduit on street crossings where soil conditions permit.
   (B)   In some instances, the attachment of utility lines or facilities to
roadway structures, particularly bridges and overpasses, is a practical and
economical arrangement. The attachments may be permitted where the proposed
attachments are determined to be in the public interest, will not impair the
roadway structure, the attachment meets the criteria as set forth below and the
method and manner of attachment is approved by the city. The city may cancel
any agreement for bridge or highway structure attachment for cause, allowing
the utility owners’ reasonable time to make other arrangements to continue
utility service.
   (C)   Restoration of utility construction in streets which are currently
paved with hot mix asphaltic concrete, brick or have been treated with double
bituminous surface treatment must meet mandatory design standards as determined
by the city in compliance with State Department of Transportation requirements.
   (D)   Untrenched construction shall be required for all new and/or
replacement pipeline crossings of existing highways. Consistent with the
operation being performed and where geological conditions permit, boring below
the paved surface will be the primary means of traversing hot mix asphaltic
concrete, brick or double bituminous treatment on arterial and collector
roadbeds for utility installation. Minimum depth acceptable shall be 36 inches,
unless otherwise approved by the city.
   (E)   The angle of crossing shall be as near to right angles to the roadway
alignment as practical.
(`90 Code, § 19-100) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-210 PRESERVATION, RESTORATION AND CLEANUP.
   (A)   The utility shall not use or cause heavy equipment to be used an soft
shoulders or unsurfaced right-of-way areas during wet or inclement weather in
the initial construction or during normal servicing when the use would cause
wheel ruts or other damage to the shoulders or unprotected right-of-way areas.
The utility shall repair any ruts or other damage to the right-of-way surface
or private property caused by its operations and shall replace or restore
aggregate and sod as necessary to the satisfaction of the city.
   (B)   The utility shall provide adequate protection over any pavement,
roadway surfacing, shoulders or roadway structure by means of earth cover,
timbers or other matting materials approved by the city before moving or
operating any heavy or steel tracked or cleated equipment on or over same.
   (C)   (1)   The area disturbed by utility construction, maintenance or other
work shall be kept to a minimum.
      (2)   Restoration measures and methods shall conform to standard
specifications and/or special provisions in permits and all restoration and
cleanup is subject to the inspection and approval of the city. Final
restoration inspection shall be conducted by city inspectors within 365 days of
receipt of inspection request from the utility.
   (D)   Earthen alley or roadways which are disturbed by utility construction,
maintenance or other work shall be restored by compacting and by spreading
three inches of aggregate or chat on the disturbed area after compacting.
   (E)   (1)   Care shall be taken in utility installations to avoid disturbing
existing drainage facilities. Underground utility installations shall be
backfilled with previous material and outlets shall be provided for entrapped
water so as to avoid even temporary ponding or excess sub-base saturation.
Underdrains should be provided where necessary.
      (2)   No jetting or puddling shall be permitted under the roadway.
(`90 Code, § 19-101) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-211 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The following special provisions allow for minor construction or
repairs by various utilities without a permit or fee.
   (B)   Single service wire installations are authorized provided existing
underground lines are located on same side of road as facility to be serviced.
   (C)   Existing water line must be located on same side of road as the
facility to be serviced with a “short side tap.” Additionally, water utilities
are authorized to do minor excavation when searching for a leak or making miner
line repairs.
   (D)   Written notice shall be waived for spot excavation within five feet of
the right-of-way or for installation or replacement of not more than four poles
or anchors. This includes service to a single customer as long as “four poles
rule” is not violated.
   (E)   Gas company may dig no more than four “bell holes” for maintenance
without a permit. In all cases listed above, prior submission to the city of
“Notification of Minor Utility Construction Form” is required.
(`90 Code, § 19-103) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-212 CONTROL AND PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   All construction and maintenance operations should be planned and
conducted with full regard to safety and to keep interference to traffic to an
absolute minimum.
   (B)   On heavily traveled roadways, utility construction and normal
maintenance operations interfering with traffic will not be allowed during
periods of peak traffic flow any work should be planned so that detours and
closures of intersecting streets, road approaches or other access points are
held to a minimum.
(`90 Code, § 19-102) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-213 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY or APPROVED BY CITY. The City Manager or City Planner, unless otherwise
designated.
(`90 Code, § 19-104) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-214 VIOLATION.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall have authority to enforce the provisions of
this article and any person violating its provisions shall be subject to civil
suit for enforcement in addition to any criminal penalties as may now exist or
hereinafter be created by law or ordinance.
   (B)   Violation of any of the terms or conditions of this article shall be
deemed an offense, and each violation thereof shall be treated as a separate
offense. On conviction of a violation or violations hereof, any person so
convicted shall be punished as provided in §
12-34 of this code of ordinances.
(`90 Code, § 19-105) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
§ 19-215 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Manager shall be authorized to establish necessary administrative
procedures for the implementation and enforcement of this article.
(`90 Code, § 19-106) (Ord. 2714, passed 1-18-83)
ARTICLE 12: PARKING SPACES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
§ 19-225 PERMITS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle
in any parking space, wheelchair ramp, wheelchair unloading area or any portion
thereof on private property accessible to the public where the public is
invited, or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person, unless:
      (1)   The person is eligible for a detachable insignia or reflective
insignia as a physically disabled person as determined by state law, and the
insignia is clearly and conspicuously displayed as provided by state law or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto; (It is furthermore provided that the
above mentioned insignia shall be obtained only from agencies so designated by
state law, which shall act as the distributing agent for the insignias.)
      (2)   The person has applied for and been issued a physically disabled
special license plate pursuant to state law, and the license plate is displayed
pursuant to the provisions of the State Vehicle License and Registration Act.
   (B)   Violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, the person shall be fined not more than $100, plus costs. In
addition to the fine and costs, the person shall pay any and all reasonable and
necessary charges incurred by the landowner or other person in having a motor
vehicle which is parked or located in a manner that is in violation of these
provisions removed from the property and stored. Each violation shall
constitute a separate offense. If a person or persons has an insignia as
described in division (A) above, but fails to clearly and conspicuously display
the detachable insignia or reflective insignia as prescribed by law, that
person shall be fined $15.
   (C)   The Commissioner of the Department of Public Safety for the state has
authorized reciprocity agreements with other states for the purpose of
recognizing disabled parking permits issued by those states.
(`90 Code, § 19-110) (Ord. 2724, passed 9-20-83; Am. Ord. 3029, passed 11-4-97)
§ 19-235 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of as offense, and upon conviction, shall be punished as
provided in §
12-34. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(`90 Code, § 19-90) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
CHAPTER 20: TRAFFIC
Article 1: Definitions
   
20-1.   Definitions; words and phrases
Article 2: Administration and Obedience
   
20-15.   Duty of Police Department and Fire Department
   
20-16.   Emergency and experimental regulations
   
20-17.   Required obedience to chapter
   
20-18.   Obedience to officials
   
20-19.   Persons propelling push carts and the like
   
20-20.   Use of coasters, roller skates and the like
   
20-21.   Public officers and employees to obey regulations
   
20-22.   Persons working on streets; exceptions
   
20-23.   Maintenance and construction
   
20-24.   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
20-25.   Operation of vehicles on approach
   
20-26.   Accidents
Article 3: Prohibited Vehicles and Equipment
   
20-40.   Vehicles injurious to streets
   
20-41.   Obstructive and dangerous vehicles
   
20-42.   Equipment
   
20-43.   Seat belts
   
20-44.   Mufflers and cut-outs
   
20-45.   Width, height and the like
   
20-46.   Load regulations
   
20-47.   Inspection of vehicles
Article 4: Traffic-Control Devices
   
20-60.   Authority to install
   
20-61.   Manual and specifications
   
20-62.   Obedience to devices
   
20-63.   Enforcement procedures
   
20-64.   Traffic-control signal legend
   
20-65.   Pedestrian control signals
   
20-66.   Flashing signals
   
20-67.   Pedestrian-actuated school crossing signals
   
20-68.   Display of signs, signals or markings
   
20-69.   Alteration or destruction of signs
   
20-70.   Play streets
   
20-71.   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
20-72.   Traffic lanes
Article 5: Operation Requirements
   
20-85.   Driving on right side of roadways; exceptions
   
20-86.   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite direction
   
20-87.   Overtaking a vehicle on the left
   
20-88.   Overtaking a vehicle on the right; when permitted
   
20-89.   Limitations
   
20-90.   No passing zones
   
20-91.   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
20-92.   Following too closely
   
20-93.   Passing in school zones; church and school buses
Article 6: Speed Regulations
   
20-105.   Basic rule and maximum limits
Article 7: Reckless Driving; License Requirements
   
20-115.   Reckless driving
   
20-116.   Careless or negligent driving and the like
   
20-117.   Inattentive driving
   
20-118.   Persons under the influence of alcohol
   
20-119.   Driver’s license required
   
20-120.   Operation without state permit
   
20-121.   Driving without license prohibited
Article 8: Turning Movements; Signals
   
20-135.   Required position and method of turning
   
20-136.   Authority to place; obedience
   
20-137.   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
20-138.   Obedience to no turn signs
   
20-139.   Limitations on turning around
   
20-140.   Turning movements
   
20-141.   Signals by hand or arm or signal lamps
Article 9: One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
20-155.   Authority to sign
   
20-156.   One-way streets and alleys
   
20-157.   Rotary traffic island
Article 10: Rights-of-Way, Intersections and Crossings
   
20-170.   Approaching or entering intersection
   
20-171.   Turning left at intersections
   
20-172.   Through streets
   
20-173.   Signs required at through streets
   
20-174.   Other intersections
   
20-175.   Stop signs and yield signs
   
20-176.   Entering stop intersection
   
20-177.   Entering yield intersection
   
20-178.   Two or more vehicles
   
20-179.   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
20-180.   Traffic obstructions
   
20-181.   Obedience to train signals
   
20-182.   Railroad grade crossings
Article 11: Miscellaneous Regulations
   
20-195.   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
20-196.   Crossing fire hose
   
20-197.   Driving through funeral or other procession
   
20-198.   Drivers in a procession
   
20-199.   Funeral processions to be identified
   
20-200.   Parades and processions; permits required
   
20-201.   Driving on sidewalks
   
20-202.   Starting parked vehicles
   
20-203.   Limitations on backing
   
20-204.   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
20-205.   Riding on motorcycles
   
20-206.   Obstructions to driver’s view
   
20-207.   Clinging to vehicles
   
20-208.   Controlled access
   
20-209.   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
20-210.   Driving through safety zone
   
20-211.   Dangerous objects in streets
   
20-212.   Motor scooters and the like
   
20-213.   Water meters not to be obstructed
   
20-214.   Skates, blades, and the like prohibited in the Central Business
District
   
20-215.   Unlawful use of engine and compression brakes
Article 12: Pedestrians
   
20-225.   Subject to traffic-control signals
   
20-226.   Right-of-way in crosswalks
   
20-227.   Use of right half of crosswalks
   
20-228.   Crossing at right angles
   
20-229.   Yielding
   
20-230.   Prohibited crossing
   
20-231.   Obedience to railroad signals
   
20-232.   Walking along roadways
   
20-233.   Soliciting rides or business
   
20-234.   Drivers to exercise due care
   
20-235.   Blind persons carrying canes
   
20-236.   Drivers to give right-of-way to blind persons
Article 13: Bicycles
   
20-250.   Effect of regulations
   
20-251.   Applicability
   
20-252.   Obedience to traffic-control devices required
   
20-253.   Riding on bicycles
   
20-254.   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
20-255.   Speed
   
20-256.   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
20-257.   Carrying articles
   
20-258.   Parking
   
20-259.   Riding on sidewalks
   
20-260.   Lamps and other equipment
   
20-261.   Penalties
Article 14: Motorcycles
   
20-270.   Motorcycles and motor scooters
   
20-271.   Special speed regulations
   
20-272.   Required equipment
Article 15: Method of Parking
   
20-285.   Standing or parking too close to curb
   
20-286.   Brakes; motor not to be left running; animals
   
20-287.   Signs or markings indicating angle parking
   
20-288.   Obedience to angle-parking signs or markings
   
20-289.   Marked off spaces
   
20-290.   Permits for loading and unloading at an angle
Article 16: Parking Regulations
   
20-300.   Parking prohibited in certain places
   
20-301.   Obstructing traffic
   
20-302.   Parking for prohibited purposes
   
20-303.   Parking time limits may be established; prohibitions
   
20-304.   Parking more than 24 hours prohibited
   
20-305.   Standing or parking on one-way roadways
   
20-306.   Limited parking of trucks exceeding one ton
   
20-307.   Parking prohibited for gasoline transport or storage trucks, and the
like
Article 17: Stopping for Loading and Unloading Only
   
20-320.   Curb loading zones may be designated
   
20-321.   Standing in passenger curb loading zone
   
20-322.   Standing in freight curb loading zone
   
20-323.   Stopping, standing, and parking of buses and taxicabs regulated
   
20-324.   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
Article 18: Truck Routes
   
20-355.   Truck routes
Article 19: Penalties; Procedure on Arrest
   
20-365.   Penalty
   
20-366.   Eluding officers
   
20-367.   Citation tags
   
20-368.   Failure to comply with citation tag
   
20-369.   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
20-370.   Complaints; warrants issued
   
20-371.   Authority to impound vehicles
Article 20: Insurance Verification
   
20-385.   Insurance or certificate required
   
20-386.   Penalty
   
20-387.   Production of proof
Article 21: Surrey Regulations
   
20-400.   Purposes and effects
   
20-401.   Applicability
   
20-402.   Operation
   
20-403.   Equipment
   
20-404.   Permits
   
20-405.   Permit fees
   
20-406.   Approval of vehicle rates
   
20-407.   Hours of operation
   
20-408.   Inspection
   
20-409.   Offense and penalty
Article 22: State Motor Vehicle Code
   
20-501.   State Motor Vehicle Code adopted
Article 23: Golf Carts and Utility Vehicles
   
20-601.   Definitions
   
20-602.   Use of golf carts and utility vehicles on city streets and highways
   
20-603.   Registration, inspection and permits
   
20-604.   Penalties
   
20-605.   Suspension or revocation of permit
Article 24: Wrecker and Towing Service Code
   
20-701.   Short title
   
20-702.   Wrecker and towing services code adopted
   
20-703.   Applicability
   
20-704.   Saving vested rights
   
20-705.   Amendments to code
   
20-706.   Wrecker and towing services official
   
20-707.   Duties and appeals
   
20-708.   License required
   
20-709.   Application for license; residence requirement
   
20-710.   Denial of license; grounds
   
20-711.   Cancellation of license; grounds
   
20-712.   Substitution of replacement vehicles
   
20-713.   License fees; amount
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS
§ 20-1 DEFINITIONS; WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either by which is more than 20 inches in
diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and
used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than a
taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations and public buildings, which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at the points only and in a manner
as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the
highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel. The words HIGHWAY and STREET are synonymous
herein.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event the
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of the highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, provided, however, that MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include
IMPLEMENTS OF HUSBANDRY as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-125.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor or a motorized bicycle.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight-savings time as may be in current use in the
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, barricades, signals, markings
and devices not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority
of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon
stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, diesel, electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, refers to any
roadway separately but not to all roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE OR ISLAND. An area or space officially set apart within a
roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so
marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times
while set apart as a safety zone or island.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STOP. When required, complete cessation from movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicle traffic
is given preferential right-of-way and at the entrances to which vehicle
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right of way to
vehicles on such THROUGH HIGHWAY in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when the signs are erected as provided in this chapter.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of a quarter of a
mile or more.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, provided, however, that
VEHICLE shall not include implements of husbandry as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-
125.
(47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.) (`90 Code, § 20-1)
ARTICLE 2: ADMINISTRATION AND OBEDIENCE
§ 20-15 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT AND FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Police Department to enforce the street traffic
regulations of the city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the
Department by this chapter and any other traffic ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or officers as are assigned by the
Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic lays and ordinances. In the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or other
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in
the immediate vicinity.
(`90 Code, § 20-2)
§ 20-16 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Manager, subject to any directions which the Council
may give by motion or resolution, is hereby empowered to make regulations
necessary to make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the
city and to make temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or
special conditions.
      (2)   No temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect for
more than 90 days.
   (B)   The City Manager may have traffic-control devices tested unto actual
conditions of traffic.
(`90 Code, § 20-3)
§ 20-17 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO CHAPTER.
   It is an offense against the city for any person to do any act forbidden
fail to perform any act required by this chapter.
(`90 Code, § 20-4)
§ 20-18 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(`90 Code, § 20-5)
§ 20-19 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSH CARTS AND THE LIKE.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway and
every person driving animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions
which, by their very nature can have no application.
(47 O.S. § 11-104) (`90 Code, § 20-6)
§ 20-20 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk. When so crossing, the person shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play street
as authorized by ordinance of this city.
(`90 Code, § 20-7)
§ 20-21 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States Government, any state,
county, city or other governmental unit or agency, as well as to other
vehicles. It is unlawful for any driver to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter or by state
statute. This chapter shall not apply to the military forces of the United
States and organizations of the National Guard when performing any military
duty.
(`90 Code, § 20-8)
§ 20-22 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this chapter except
those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not
apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair
of public utilities. All highway and public utility operations shall be
protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flagmen. This chapter
shall apply to persons and vehicles when traveling to or from work.
(`90 Code, § 20-9)
§ 20-23 MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   City personnel or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the city, and city personnel and utility companies, when installing,
improving or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the City Manager, to
close any street or section thereof to traffic during the repair, maintenance
or construction and in exercising the authority, shall erect or cause to be
erected proper control devices and barricades to warn and notify the public
that the street has been closed to traffic.
   (B)   (1)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions
of division (A) above and traffic-control devices or barricades have been
erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through, under,
over or around the traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter
the closed area.
      (2)   The provisions of this division shall not apply to persons while
engaged in the construction, maintenance and repair or to persons entering
therein for the protection of lives or property. Persons having their places of
residence or places of business within the closed area may travel, when
possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or
utility line or facility is being performed under traffic, the city personnel,
contractor or utility company concerned shall erect or cause to be erected
traffic-control devices to warn and guide the public.
      (2)   Every person using the street shall obey all signs, signals,
markings, flagmen or other traffic-control devices which are placed to
regulate, control and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area.
(`90 Code, § 20-10)
§ 20-24 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit or an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to
the conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this article;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any vehicle is making use of audible and visual
signals as required by law, except that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light
visible from in front of the vehicle. This division shall not be construed as
requiring a peace officer operating a police vehicle properly and lawfully in
response to a crime in progress to use audible signals.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall the provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(47 O.S. § 11-106) (`90 Code, § 20-11)
§ 20-25 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this
state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of- way
and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible
to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection, and
shall stop and remain in the position until the authorized emergency vehicle
has passed, except if otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to require a peace officer
operating a police vehicle properly and lawfully in response to a crime in
progress to use audible signals nor shall this section operate to relieve the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the highway.
(47 O.S. § 11-405) (`90 Code, § 20-12)
§ 20-26 ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall apply upon public roadways,
streets, highways, turnpikes, alleys, municipal property and public parking
lots within the city limits of the city.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to or death of any person or resulting only in damage to a vehicle which
is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the
scene of the accident or as close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith
return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of the accident until he
or she has fulfilled the requirements of division (C) below.
      (2)   Every stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
   (C)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended
by any person shall give his or her correct name, address and registration
number of the vehicle he or she is driving, and shall upon request and if
available, exhibit his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license to the person
struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided
with, and shall render to any person injured in an accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying or the making of arrangements for the
carrying of the person to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or
surgical treatment if it is apparent that the treatment is necessary or if the
carrying is requested by the injured person.
   (D)   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of the vehicle of the correct name and address of
the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall
leave in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck, a written notice giving the
name and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the
striking and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
   (E)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a public
roadway, a street, a highway, a turnpike, an alley, municipal property or a
public parking lot, shall take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner
or person in charge of the property of the fact and of his or her name and
address and of the registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving and
shall upon request and if available exhibit his or her operator’s or
chauffeur’s license and shall make report of the accident when and as required
in division (G) below.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person shall immediately, by the quickest means of
communication, give notice of the accident to the Police Department after
complying with division (C) above.
   (G)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is apparent
that damage to one vehicle or other property is in excess of $300 shall, within
ten days of the accident, report the accident in writing to the Police
Department. Making out a written report of the accident in the Office of the
Police Department as soon as is practicable after the accident to be forwarded
to the Department of Public Safety of the state, in accordance with the
applicable state statutory law, 47 O.S. § 10-108, shall also be deemed
compliance with this section.
   (H)   (1)   An accident report is not required under this section from any
person who is physically incapable of making a report during the period of the
incapacity.
      (2)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
an immediate notice of an accident as required in division (F) above and there
was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of
doing so, the occupant shall make or cause to be given the notice not given by
the driver.
   (I)   Any person convicted of failing to comply with any provision of this
section shall be punished as provided herein.
(`90 Code, § 20-13) (Ord. 2652, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.
ARTICLE 3: PROHIBITED VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
§ 20-40 VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS.
   No vehicles or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street.
(`90 Code, § 20-14)
§ 20-41 OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive any vehicle in a condition, so constructed or so
loaded as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
Chief of Police and in accordance with the terms of the permit.
(`90 Code, § 20-15)
§ 20-42 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be
equipped as required by law and it is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a
street of the city which is not equipped as required by law. It is also
unlawful to fail to use the equipment in the manner required by law or to use
it in a manner prohibited by law.
      (2)   It is also unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment
prohibited by law upon a street of the city.
(`90 Code, § 20-16)
   (B)   (1)   Every driver, when transporting a child under six years of age
in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways of this
state, shall provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child
passenger restraint system. For purposes of this section, CHILD PASSENGER
RESTRAINT SYSTEM means an infant or child passenger restraint system which
meets the federal standards as set by 49 C.F.R., Section 571.213.
      (2)   Children at least six years of age but younger than 13 years of age
shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         (a)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
         (b)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
         (c)   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in
use;
         (d)   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are
unable to be placed in such devices; or
         (e)   The transportation of a child who weighs more than 40 pounds and
who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a lap
safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with combination
lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and shoulder safety
belts in the back seat are being used by other children who weigh more than 40
pounds. Provided, however, for purposes of this division, BACK SEAT shall
include all seats located behind the front seat of a vehicle operated by a
licensed child care facility or church. Provided further, there shall be a
rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight requirements of this
division if, at the request of any law enforcement officer, the licensed child
care facility or church provides the officer with a written statement verified
by the parent or legal guardian that the child weighs more than 40 pounds.
      (4)   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if
it appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this
section and to give an oral warning to said driver. The warning shall advise
the driver of the possible danger to children resulting from the failure to
install or use a child passenger restraint system or seat belts in the motor
vehicle.
      (5)   A violation of the provisions of this section shall not be
admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
      (6)   In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of
damages.
      (7)   Any person convicted of violating this section shall be punished by
a fine of $50 and shall pay all court costs thereof. Revenue from such fine
shall be apportioned to the Department of Public Safety Revolving Fund and used
by the Oklahoma Highway Safety Office to promote the use of child passenger
restraint systems. This fine shall be suspended and the court costs limited to
a maximum of $15 in the case of the first offense upon proof of purchase or
acquisition by loan of a child passenger restraint system. Provided, the
Department of Public Safety shall not assess points to the driving record of
any person convicted of a violation of this section.
(`90 Code, § 20-16.1) (Ord. 2336, passed 12-1-87; Am. Ord. 3069, passed 8-15-
00; Am. Ord. 3201, passed 4-7-09)
§ 20-43 SEAT BELTS.
   (A)   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
the corporate city limits shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety
seat belt system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle when
manufactured pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208. For the
purposes of this section, “passenger car” shall mean “vehicle,” as defined in
47 O.S. § 1102, except that “passenger car” shall not include trucks, truck-
tractors, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles or vehicles
used primarily for farm use and licenses pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S.
§ 1134.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to an operator or passenger of a
passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a written
verification from a physician licensed in the state that the individual is
unable to wear a safety belt system for medical reasons. The issuance of the
verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall
the physician thereby incur any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise,
to any person injured by reason of the failure to wear a safety seat belt
system.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who is
a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service. (47 O.S. § 12-417)
(Ord. 3064, passed 6-20-00)
Statutory reference:
   Additional requirements, 47 O.S. §§ 12-201 et seq.
§ 20-44 MUFFLERS AND CUT-OUTS.
   (A)   No motor vehicles with an internal combustion engine shall be operated
within the city unless the exhaust from the engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler.
   (B)   No muffler cut-out or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall be used on any
motor vehicle while operating within the city, except that exhaust whistles may
be used on authorized emergency vehicles.
(`90 Code, § 20-17)
§ 20-45 WIDTH, HEIGHT AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the Chief of
Police.
(`90 Code, § 20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Size, weight and load, 47 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
§ 20-46 LOAD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense to drive or move any vehicle on
any street within the corporate limits of the city, unless the vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting,
leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in clearing and maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or corporation
to operate any loaded vehicle on any street within the corporate limits of the
city, unless the load and covering thereon are securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to any persons using or living along and contiguous to the street. Any
vehicle loaded with sand, cinders or other loose material susceptible to
blowing or otherwise escaping shall have such load covered so as to prevent the
blowing or escaping of the load from the vehicle.
   (C)   Covering requirements shall not apply to vehicles loaded with
livestock, poultry or unbaled agricultural products, provided that any vehicle
shall be so constructed or loaded as to prevent the livestock or poultry from
escaping therefrom.
(47 O.S. § 14-105)
   (D)   The City Council shall reserve the right and may exercise the
authority to designate routes for any loaded vehicle, as defined in this
section. The route designation may include any posted truck route or any route
deemed necessary to protect the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens cf the city.
(`90 Code, § 20-18) (Ord. 2576, passed - -)
§ 20-47 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon
the streets of the city at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it
is properly equipped, and/or whether its equipment is in proper adjustment and
repair.
(`90 Code, § 20-19)
ARTICLE 4: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 20-60 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   (A)   All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, hereinafter referred to as the
“Manual,” and be approved by the Traffic Engineer. For purposes of this
chapter, the term “Traffic Engineer” shall mean the person appointed by the
City Manager and responsible for all traffic control devices, signs, signals
and markings.
   (B)   All signs, signals and devices required hereunder for a particular
purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and relative location
throughout the city. All traffic control devices erected and not inconsistent
with the provisions of state law or this chapter shall be official traffic-
control devices.
(`90 Code, § 20-20) (Am. Ord. 3031, passed 12-16-97)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control devices, 47 O.S. §§ 11-201 et seq.
§ 20-61 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever the Traffic Engineer determines, based upon a traffic survey and
investigation, that traffic-control devices are necessary at a particular
intersection or location which meets standards provided in the Manual, he or
she shall initiate necessary steps to obtain, install and maintain the same.
(`90 Code, § 20-21) (Am. Ord. 3031, passed 12-16-97)
§ 20-62 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter or law, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this chapter.
(`90 Code, § 20-22)
§ 20-63 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, the section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
(`90 Code, § 20-23)
§ 20-64 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used, and the terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal fray proceed straight through
or turn right or left unless a sign or barricade at a place that prohibits
either turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “Stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Steady red alone or “Stop.”
      (1)   Whenever a traffic control signal on a street or boulevard in the
city exhibits the word “Stop,” in red, then all vehicular traffic facing the
signal shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the nearest side of the
intersection, or if none, then before entering the intersection and shall
remain standing until “Green” or “Go” is shown alone, or, while the signal is
still red, vehicular traffic may turn right from the appropriate by an
appropriate sign, which reads, “No right turn” or “No turn.” The vehicular
traffic shall yield the right-of-way to-pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   With any crossing or intersection in the corporate limits of the
city, a right turn on red is not permitted for any reason or if no turn at an
intersection is permitted at any time, then there must be erected a clear
concise sign informing drivers that the turns are prohibited, the signs shall
be designed by the Highway Department and designed to be used for this purpose.
   (D)   Steady red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within the crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown alone or until authorized so to do by pedestrian “Walk”
signal.
   (E)   Erection and maintenance. In the event an official traffic-control
signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the
provisions of this section shall be applicable, except as to those provisions
which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made
at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made.
In the absence of any sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(47 O.S. § 11-202) (`90 Code, § 20-24)
§ 20-65 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Wait” or
“Don’t Walk” are in place, the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   “Walk.” Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Wait” or “Don’t Walk.” No pedestrians shall start to cross the
roadway in the direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partially
completed his or her crossing when the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk
or safety island while the wait signal is showing.
(47 O.S. § 11-203) (`90 Code, § 20-25)
§ 20-66 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows:
      (1)   Flashing red stop signal. When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow caution signal. When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or pass the signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to railroad grade crossings.
(47 O.S. § 11-204) (`90 Code, § 20-26)
§ 20-67 PEDESTRIAN-ACTUATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS.
   Whenever a pedestrian-actuated school crossing signal is provided, it
requires obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Flashing yellow.
      (1)   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or pass
the signal only with caution.
      (2)   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
actuate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the rest
or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the signal when
the red or “Stop” signal is exhibited.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which the
signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
   (C)   Steady red.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then before passing
the signal or entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until
flashing yellow is shown alone.
      (2)   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal
and shall be given tie right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (D)   Steady red and steady yellow combined.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that the
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone.
      (2)   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her crossing
shall proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island, and shall be given the
right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
(`90 Code, § 20-27)
§ 20-68 DISPLAY OF SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic- control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which projects any flashing or revolving beams of light or which hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control
device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign, signal or device bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private property
adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information and of a
type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and the city manager is hereby empowered to remove the
same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(47 O.S. § 11-206) (`90 Code, § 20-28)
§ 20-69 ALTERATION OR DESTRUCTION OF SIGNS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device,
including any 911 emergency telephone service route markers, or any railroad
sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other
part thereof.
(47 O.S. § 11-207) (`90 Code, § 20-29)
§ 20-70 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   The City Manager, subject to any directions which the Council may give
by motion or resolution, shall have authority to declare any street or part
thereof a play street and to have placed appropriate signs or devices in the
roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
(`90 Code, § 20-30)
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or whose
residences are within the closed area, and then any driver shall exercise the
greatest of care in driving upon the street.
(`90 Code, § 20-31)
§ 20-71 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The City Manager, subject to any directions which the Council may give by
motion or resolution, is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in his or her
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
other places as he or she may deem necessary; and
   (B)   To establish safety zones or islands of a kind and character and at
places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(`90 Code, § 20-32)
§ 20-72 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The City Manager, subject to any directions which the Council may give
by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon
the roadway or any street where a realignment of traffic is necessary.
   (B)   Where the traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the
boundaries of any lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
(`90 Code, § 20-33)
ARTICLE 5: OPERATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 20-85 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways or sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right-half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing the movement;
      (2)   When the right-half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic;
      (5)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard; and
      (6)   Upon a roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(47 O.S. § 11-301) (`90 Code, § 20-34)
Statutory reference:
   Driving on right side of road, 47 O.S. §§ 11-301 et seq.
§ 20-86 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTION.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(47 O.S. § 11-302) (`90 Code, § 20-35)
§ 20-87 OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   Every driver who intends to pass another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction, which requires moving his vehicle from one lane of traffic to
another, shall first see that such movement can be made with safety and shall
proceed to pass only after giving a proper signal by hand or mechanical device.
(47 O.S. § 11-303) (`90 Code, § 20-36)
§ 20-88 OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE RIGHT; WHEN PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement, not occupied
by parked vehicles, of sufficient width for one or more lines of vehicles
moving in each direction; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle
upon the right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety.
      (2)   In no event shall movement be made by driving off the pavement or
main-traveled portion of the roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-304) (`90 Code, § 20-37)
§ 20-89 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless the left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to
be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the roadway
before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction.
(47 O.S. § 11-305) (`90 Code, § 20-38)
   (B)   (1)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the
roadway under the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within the distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; and
         (c)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
      (2)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-306) (`90 Code, § 20-39)
§ 20-90 NO PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   The State Department of Highways, as regards to state and
federal highways, and the City Manager, as regards all other streets, are
hereby authorized to determine those portions of a highway where overtaking and
passing or driving to the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous and
shall by appropriate signs or markings on the roadway have the beginning and
end of the zones indicated.
      (2)   When the signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an
ordinarily observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the
directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone as
set forth in division (A) above, no driver shall at any time drive to the left
side of the roadway within the no passing zone or on the left side of any
pavement striping designed to mark the no passing zone throughout its length.
(47 O.S. § 11-307) (`90 Code, § 20-40)
§ 20-91 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply:
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane, except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and the center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or where the
center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of the
allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every sign.
(47 O.S. § 11-309) (`90 Code, § 20-41)
§ 20-92 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
(47 O.S. § 11-310(a)) (`90 Code, § 20-42)
§ 20-93 PASSING IN SCHOOL ZONES; CHURCH AND SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CHURCH BUS. A church bus is a vehicle operated by a nonprofit religious
organization which transports persons including school age children to and from
religious services.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately-
owned vehicles operated for compensation for the transportation of children to
or from school.
   SCHOOL ZONE. Any street or highway or portion thereof officially designated
and marked as a school zone.
   (B)   Passing in school zones restricted. The driver of a vehicle shall not
pass any other vehicle which is in motion and being driven in the same
direction in any school zone between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on
all days when any school is in session. Whenever a school zone is located on a
multiple lane street, which is divided into three or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic or where the right-half of the roadway has been divided into two or
more lanes, vehicles shall be allowed to pass slower moving vehicles being
driven in the same direction where the passing does not involve a change of
lane movement.
   (C)   Overtaking and passing school and church buses.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway, street or roadway, upon
meeting or overtaking from either direction, any school bus or church bus which
is stopped on or adjacent to the street, roadway or highway for the purpose of
receiving or discharging any school children or other occupants, shall stop the
vehicle immediately before passing the school bus or church bus, when there is
in operation on the school bus or church bus at the time the bus stops or
begins to stop, signal lamps, as required by the statutes of the state for the
vehicles. The driver of the stopped vehicle shall not proceed until the school
bus or church bus resumes motion or is signaled by the school or church bus
driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. The driver of
the vehicle may then proceed past the school bus or church bus at a speed which
is reasonable and prudent, not exceeding ten miles per hour.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle, when passing a school bus or church bus,
after stopping as required by this section and being waved to proceed by the
school or church bus driver shall use due caution for the safety of the school
children and other occupants of the school bus or church bus, which occupants
shall have the right-of-way when crossing the street or roadway immediately
upon leaving the school bus or church bus.
(`90 Code, § 20-42.1) (Ord. 2636, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-705 and 11-705.1
ARTICLE 6: SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 20-105 BASIC RULE AND MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person driving a vehicle on a highway shall drive the same
at a careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the highway and
any other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle upon
a highway at a speed greater than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead.
      (2)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A)(1) above, the limits specified in this article, or
established as hereinafter authorized, shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no
person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of the maximum
limits as follows:
         (a)   Twenty-five miles per hour on any street adjacent to any school
between 7:00 a.m. and 8:30 a.m., and between 2:30 p.m. and 4:00 p.m., or in any
school zone with a posted school zone sign, or when a school zone flashing
light is activated on days when school is in session; and
         (b)   Twenty-five miles per hour on other streets and on street
adjacent to schools at other times than that specified immediately above. The
Council by ordinance or resolution may reduce or increase this speed limit on
any city street, highways, roads, alleys or public ways or parts thereof and
when it does so, appropriate signs shall be placed on the streets or parts of
streets indicating the lower or higher speed limit.
      (3)   The City Council, by ordinance or resolution, may prescribe maximum
and minimum speeds for all vehicles and any combinations of vehicles using any
streets, highways, roads, alleys or public ways, or parts thereof, within the
city. The regulations shall become effective after signs have been posted on
these streets, highways, roads, alleys or public ways, or parts thereof within
the city, giving notice thereof. It shall be a violation of this section to
drive any vehicle at a faster rate of speed than the prescribed maximum, or at
a slower rate of speed than the prescribed minimum. However, all vehicles shall
at all times conform to division (A)(1) above.
      (4)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of division (A)(1) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
   (B)   Based upon traffic engineering survey and investigation, the speed
limit on the following streets shall be as indicated and shall become
effective, as to the streets, upon the placing of proper signs and markings
thereon:
      (1)   East Noble Avenue, west, from I-35 to .15 miles east of Pine
Street, a maximum speed of 45 miles per hour;
      (2)   East Noble Avenue, west, from .15 miles east of Pine Street to
Drexel Street, a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (3)   East Noble Avenue, west from Drexel Street to 1st Street a maximum
speed of 30 miles per hour;
      (4)   West Noble Avenue, west, from 1st Street to .10 miles west of 20th
Street, a maximum of 35 miles per hour;
      (5)   West Noble Avenue, west, from .10 miles west of 20th Street to
Commerce, a maximum speed of 45 miles per hour;
      (6)   West Noble Avenue, west, from Commerce to .50 miles to the west
city limits line, a maximum speed of 55 miles per hour;
      (7)   East Oklahoma, east, from the east curb line of South Drexel to the
south street edge of East Noble, a maximum speed of 30 miles per hour;
      (8)   North Pine Street, south, from Cooksey to East Noble, a maximum
speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (9)   South Pine Street, south, from East Garfield to East Industrial
Road, a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (10)   South Division Street, north, from 1-35 to Prairie Grove Road, a
maximum speed of 55 miles per hour;
      (11)   South Division Street, north, from Prairie Grove Road to Allen
Road, a maximum speed of 45 miles per hour;
      (12)   South Division Street, north, from Allen Road to Snake Creek
Bridge a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (13)    South Division Street, north, across Snake Creek Bridge to
Springer Avenue, a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (14)    Sooner Road, north, from 32 feet south of Seward Road (south city
limits line) to Amsey Lane, a maximum speed of 45 miles per hour;
      (15)    Sooner Road, north, from Amsey Lane to South Division, a maximum
speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (16)    Academy road, north, from West University (old Highway 33) to .50
miles north of College Avenue which dead ends at the old landfill, a maximum
speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (17)    West Oklahoma, west, from 19th Street to Academy, a maximum speed
of 35 miles per hour;
      (18)    S.W. 19th Street, southwesterly, from West Oklahoma Avenue to .70
miles from that point, a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (19)    S.W. 19th Street, southwesterly, from .70 miles southwest of West
Oklahoma Avenue to Academy Road, a maximum speed of 45 miles per hour;
      (20)    East College Avenue, east, from Pine Street to I-35, a maximum
speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (21)    Hillcrest Avenue, east, from Walnut Street to Pine Street, a
maximum speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (22)    Industrial Road, west, from Pine Street to Davis Road, a maximum
speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (23)    Lake Road, west and south, from Sooner Road to Coltrane and Cove
Drive, a maximum speed of 30 miles per hour;
      (24)    Seward Road, west, from I-35 to Academy Road (Bryant) a maximum
speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (25)    Academy Road, north, from Seward Road to Lakewood Drive, a
maximum speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (26)    Liberty Lake Dam Road, west, from Academy Road to Seward Road
(west city limits line), a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (27)    Prairie Grove Road, east, from Davis Road to .25 miles east of
South Division (east city limits line), a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour;
      (28)    I-35 south bound lanes, south, from College Avenue to Browne
Avenue, a maximum speed of 65 miles per hour;
      (29)    I-35 south bound lanes, south, from Roller Coaster Road to 968
feet south of Seward Road (south city limits line), a maximum speed of 65 miles
per hour;
      (30)    North Wentz Street, north, from Noble Avenue to and including
Bird Creek Bridge (north city limits line), a maximum speed of 35 miles per
hour; and
      (31)    Walnut Street, north, from Logan Avenue to Merest Avenue, a
maximum speed of 35 miles per hour.
(`90 Code, § 20-43) (Am. Ord. 3001, passed 8-1-95; Am. Ord. 3008, passed 3-19-
96; Am. Ord. 3019, passed 5-20-97; Am. Ord. 3212, passed 7-20-10; Am. Ord.
3324, passed 12-17-19; Am. Ord. 3329, passed 2-18-20)
ARTICLE 7: RECKLESS DRIVING; LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 20-115 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in this chapter.
(47 O.S. § 11-901) (`90 Code, § 20-44)
§ 20-116 CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING AND THE LIKE.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be
parked or stop any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner, or in a manner as
to endanger life, limb, person or property, or as to interfere with the lawful
movement of traffic or use of the streets.
(`90 Code, § 20-45)
§ 20-117 INATTENTIVE DRIVING.
   The operator of every vehicle while driving shall devote his or her full
time and attention to the driving and no person shall drive in an inattentive
or imprudent manner without due regard for the width, grade, curves, corners,
traffic and use of the streets or other places, or any other attendant
circumstances.
(Ord. 3024, passed 7-15-97)
§ 20-118 PERSONS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of alcohol to
drive or be in actual physical control of any vehicle within this city.
(`90 Code, § 20-46) (Ord. 2857, passed 12-20-88)
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to drive or operate a motor vehicle within
this city while his or her ability to drive or operate the vehicle is impaired
by the consumption of alcohol.
(`90 Code, § 20-46.1)
   (C)   Upon the prosecution of any person for a violation of divisions (A) or
(B) above, evidence of the alcohol concentration in the blood or breath of the
person as shown by analysis of the blood or breath of the person performed in
accordance with the provisions of 47 O.S. §§ 752 and 759 or evidence of the
presence and concentration of any other intoxicating substance as shown by
analysis of the person’s blood, breath, saliva or urine specimens in accordance
with the provisions of 47 O.S. §§ 752 and 759 is admissible. Evidence that the
person has refused to submit to either of the analysis is also admissible. For
the purpose of this division:
      (1)   Evidence that there was .05% or less by weight of alcohol in his or
her blood is prima facie evidence that the person was not under the influence
of alcohol or intoxicating liquor;
      (2)   Evidence that there was more than .05% by weight of alcohol in the
person’s blood is relevant evidence of operating a motor vehicle while his or
her ability to operate the motor vehicle is impaired by the consumption of
alcohol or intoxicating liquor; (However, no person shall be convicted of the
offense of operating a motor vehicle while his or her ability of operate the
vehicle is impaired by consumption of alcohol or intoxicating liquor solely
because there was more than .05% of alcohol in the person’s blood, in the
absence of additional evidence that the person’s driving was affected by the
consumption of alcohol to the extent that public health and safety was
threatened or that the person had violated a state statute or local ordinance
in the operation of a motor vehicle.)
      (3)   Evidence there was 8/100 (.08) of 1% or more by weight of alcohol
in his or her blood shall be admitted as prima facie evidence the person was
under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating liquor;
      (4)   Percent by weight of alcohol in the blood shall be based upon grams
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood; and/or
      (5)   To be admissible the evidence must first be qualified by
establishing that the specimen was obtained from the subject within not more
than two hours of the arrest of the subject.
(`90 Code, § 20-46.2)
(Ord. 2858, passed 12-20-88; Am. Ord. 3077, passed 7-17-01)
Statutory reference:
   Statutory provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 751 et seq.
§ 20-119 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who does not have a valid driver’s
license, as required by state law, for operation of a motor vehicle upon the
state highways, to operate a motor vehicle within the city and it is unlawful
for any person to possess more than one valid license at any time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle whose
driver’s license has been canceled, suspended, revoked or denied.
   (C)   Every licensee shall have his or her driver’s license in his or her
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
display the same upon demand of a police officer. However, no person charged
with violating this section shall be convicted if he or she produces in court a
driver’s license theretofore issued to him or her and valid at the time of his
or her arrest.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle with an
otherwise valid driver’s license but without proper endorsements thereon as
required under state law.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle with a valid
driver’s license in violation of the restrictions imposed in a restricted
license issued to him or her.
(`90 Code, § 20-47) (Ord. 2651, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2856, passed 12-20-88; Am.
Ord. 3003, passed 9-19-95)
§ 20-120 OPERATION WITHOUT STATE PERMIT.
   It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of the city
without a state vehicle license as required by law or to fail to display the
state vehicle license and safety sticker as required by law.
(`90 Code, § 20-48) (Ord. 3088, passed 8-21-01)
§ 20-121 DRIVING WITHOUT LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to authorize or knowingly permit a motor
vehicle owned by him or her, or under his or her control, to be driven upon any
street in the city by any person who is not authorized or licensed to drive a
motor vehicle under the laws of the state or under the laws of the state of the
driver’s residence.
(`90 Code, § 20-49)
ARTICLE 8: TURNING MOVEMENTS; SIGNALS
§ 20-135 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns or two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right-half of
the roadway nearest the center line thereof and by passing to the right of the
center line where it enters the intersection and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the center line of the roadway being entered. Whenever
practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to
the left of the center of the intersection.
   (C)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection shall approach
the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as
nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in the direction upon the roadway being entered.
(47 O.S. § 11-601) (`90 Code, § 20-50)
§ 20-136 AUTHORITY TO PLACE; OBEDIENCE.
   The City Manager, subject to any directions which the Council may give by
motion or resolution, is authorizes to have placed markers, buttons or signs
within or adjacent to intersection’s indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at the intersections. The course to be traveled, as so
indicated, and may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law or
ordinance.
(47 O.S. § 11-601) (`90 Code, § 20-51)
§ 20-137 AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   The City Manager, subject to any directions which the Council may give by
motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine those intersections at
which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U turn, and shall
have placed proper signs at the intersections. The making of the turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in
which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be
removed when the turns are permitted.
(`90 Code, § 20-52)
§ 20-138 OBEDIENCE TO NO TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
sign.
(`90 Code, § 20-53)
§ 20-139 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any street in the city, except at an
intersection, and, furthermore, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to
make a turn at any intersection:
      (1)   Where traffic-control signals are installed;
      (2)   Where a police officer is directing traffic, except at the latter’s
direction; or
      (3)   Where an official no U turn sign has been placed and is maintained.
   (B)   When otherwise permitted, a U turn may be made only when it can be
made in safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(`90 Code, § 20-54)
§ 20-140 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required by ordinance, or turn a
vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or otherwise turn a vehicle frost a
direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until the
movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn any
vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided
in the event any other traffic may be affected by the movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
the signal.
   (D)   When any person is properly preparing for, attempting or executing a
left turn, as described in division (A) of this section, no other person
operating another vehicle immediately following the turning vehicle shall pass
or attempt to pass the turning vehicle to the left. Such other person shall
come to a complete stop if necessary at a safe distance behind the person
preparing for, attempting or executing the turn or may proceed to the right of
the turning vehicle as provided by 47 O.S. § 11-304 and § 20-88 of this code of
ordinances.
(47 O.S. § 11-604) (`90 Code, § 20-55)
§ 20-141 SIGNALS BY HAND OR ARM OR SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   (1)   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps, except as otherwise
provided in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with and
required signal shall be given by signal lamps when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab or load of the motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches or when the distance from
the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body or
load thereof exceeds 14 feet. The latter measurement shall apply to any size
vehicle and also to any combination of vehicles.
(47 O.S. § 11-605) (`90 Code, § 20-56)
   (B)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from
the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and the signals shall
indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally.
      (2)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward.
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(47 O.S. § 11-606) (`90 Code, § 20-57)
ARTICLE 9: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 20-155 AUTHORITY TO SIGN.
   Whenever the Council by motion or resolution designates any street or alley
or part thereof as a one- way street or alley, the City Manager shall have
placed and maintained signs giving notice thereof and no regulation shall be
effective unless the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(47 O.S. § 11-308(a)) (`90 Code, § 20-58)
§ 20-156 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts of
alleys so designated as one- way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the direction indicated when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
(47 O.S. § 11-308(b)) (`90 Code, § 20-59)
§ 20-157 ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLAND.
   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only to the
right of the island.
(47 O.S. § 11-308(c)) (`90 Code, § 20-60)
ARTICLE 10: RIGHTS-OF-WAY, INTERSECTIONS AND CROSSINGS
§ 20-170 APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
highway. The driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or federal
highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway shall stop
and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection or
which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   When too vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The right-of-way rules declared in divisions (A) and (B) above are
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this chapter.
(47 O.S. § 11-401) (`90 Code, § 20-61)
§ 20-171 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this chapter, may make the left turn, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite
direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(47 O.S. § 11-402) (`90 Code, § 20-62)
§ 20-172 THROUGH STREETS.
   The Council, by motion or resolution, may designate any street or part of
street a through street.
(`90 Code, § 20-63)
§ 20-173 SIGNS REQUIRED AT THROUGH STREETS.
   Whenever the Council so designates and describes a through street, the City
Manager shall have placed and maintained a stop sign, or if deemed more
appropriate at any intersection a yield sign, on each and every street
intersecting the through street unless traffic at any intersection is
controlled at all times by traffic-control signals. At the intersection of two
through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy-traffic
street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of
either of the streets as may be determined by the City Manager, if deemed
desirable.
(`90 Code, § 20-64)
§ 20-174 OTHER INTERSECTIONS.
   The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the Council by motion
or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections
where particular hazard exists upon other than through streets and to
determine:
   (A)   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any
intersection, in which event he or she shall cause to be erected a stop sign at
every place where a stop is required; or
   (B)   Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles an a
different street at the intersection, as prescribed herein, in which event, he
or she shall cause to be erected a yield sign at every place where obedience
thereto is required.
(`90 Code, § 20-65)
§ 20-175 STOP SIGNS AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Every stop sign hereafter acquired shall bear the word “Stop” in
letters eight inches in height. Every yield sign shall bear the word “Yield” in
letters not less than seven inches in height. Every stop sign and every yield
sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by internal illumination or by a
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements in the face of the sign.
   (B)   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
(`90 Code, § 20-66)
§ 20-176 ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering to crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   The driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on the highway as to constitute an immediate hazard. The
driver having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so
proceeding.
(47 O.S. § 11-403(a)) (`90 Code, § 20-67)
§ 20-177 ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, shall
stop if necessary, shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding. If the driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a
crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection after driving past a yield sign
without stopping, the collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his or
her failure to yield right-of-way.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-403(b)) (`90 Code, § 20-68)
§ 20-178 TWO OR MORE VEHICLES.
   Where two or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or
signals on two or more intersecting cross streets, and are approaching so as to
enter the intersection at the same time, where each vehicle is required to
stop, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right-of-way. Where each
vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the
right-of-way. When each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming
from the right shall have the right-of-way. When one vehicle is required to
stop and the ether to slow or take caution, the one slowing or taking caution
shall have the right-of-way. When one vehicle is required to slow and the other
to take caution, the one required to take caution shall have the right-of-way.
In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the intersection shall have
the right-of-way over one which has not so entered the intersection.
(47 O.S. § 11-403(d)) (`90 Code, § 20-69)
§ 20-179 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alley way or driveway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway.
(`90 Code, § 20-70)
§ 20-180 TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTIONS.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(`90 Code, § 20-71)
§ 20-181 OBEDIENCE TO TRAIN SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
the vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
highway crossing emits a signal audible from the distance and the railroad
train, by reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing, is an immediate
hazard; or
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(47 O.S. § 11-701) (`90 Code, § 20-72)
§ 20-182 RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of
any bus, as that term is defined in 47 O.S. § 1-105, owned or operated by a
licensed child care facility while carrying children, or of any school bus
carrying any schoolchild, or of any vehicle carrying explosive substances or
flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing at grade any
track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and while stopped,
shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any approaching
train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, except as hereinafter
provided, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so safely. After
stopping as required herein and upon proceeding when it is safe to do so, the
driver of any vehicle shall cross only in the gear of the vehicle that there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and the
driver shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (B)   No stop need be made at any crossing where a police officer or a
traffic-control signal directs traffic to proceed.
(47 O.S. § 11-702) (`90 Code, § 20-73)
ARTICLE 11: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 20-195 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park the vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(47 O.S. § 11-1108(a)) (`90 Code, § 20-74)
§ 20-196 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(47 O.S. § 11-1109) (`90 Code, § 20-75)
§ 20-197 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when the vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required by this chapter. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control
signals or police officers.
(`90 Code, § 20-76)
§ 20-198 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practicable and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
(`90 Code, § 20-77)
§ 20-199 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia or by another method as may be determined and designated
by the Police Department.
(`90 Code, § 20-78)
§ 20-200 PARADES AND PROCESSIONS; PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No funeral, procession or parade containing 200 or more persons or 50 or
more vehicles, except the military forces of the United States and the military
forces of the state, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street, except in
accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and the other
regulations as are set forth herein which may apply.
(`90 Code, § 20-79)
§ 20-201 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or within any
sidewalk area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(47 O.S. § 11-603) (`90 Code, § 20-80)
§ 20-202 STARTING PARKED VEHICLES.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(`90 Code, § 20-81)
§ 20-203 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(`90 Code, § 20-82)
§ 20-204 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any
person leave a door open an the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(47 O.S. § 11-1105) (`90 Code, § 20-83)
§ 20-205 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter or a motor bicycle shall ride
only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto and the operator
shall not carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on the vehicle
unless it is designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger
may ride only upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons,
or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
(`90 Code, § 20-84)
§ 20-206 OBSTRUCTIONS TO DRIVER’S VIEW.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(47 O.S. § 11-1104(a))
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(47 O.S. § 11-1104(b))
   (C)   It is unlawful for a person to sell, install or to operate a motor
vehicle with any object or material placed, displayed, installed, affixed or
applied upon the windshield or side or rear windows or within any object or
material so placed, installed, affixed or applied in or upon the motor vehicle
so as to obstruct or reduce a driver’s clear view through the windshield or
side or rear windows, except as provided by this section.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to place, install, affix or apply any
transparent material upon the windshield or side or rear windows of any motor
vehicle if such material alters the color or reduces the light transmittance of
such windshield, or side or rear windows, except as provided in this section.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Side or back windows that have a substance or material in
conjunction with glazing material that has a light transmission of at least 25%
and a luminous reflection of at most 25%;
      (2)   Front side wing vents and windows that have a substance or material
not attached in conjunction with glazing material which is used by a vehicle
operator on a moving vehicle during daylight hours;
      (3)   Rearview mirrors;
      (4)   Adjustable non-transparent sun visors which are mounted forward of
the side windows and are not attached to the glass;
      (5)   Signs, stickers or other materials which are displayed in a 49
square-inch area in the lower corner of the windshield farthest removed from
the driver or signs, stickers or other materials which are displayed in a 49
square-inch area in the lower corner of the windshield nearest the driver;
      (6)   Direction, designation or termination signs on buses, if the signs
do not interfere with the driver’s clear view of approaching traffic;
      (7)   Rear window wiper motors;
      (8)   Rear window defrosters or defoggers;
      (9)   Rear trunk lid handle or hinges;
      (10)   Side windows to the rear of the driver or back windows that have a
substance or material in conjunction with glazing material that has a light
transmission of at least 10% and a luminous reflectance of at most 25% on all
vehicles manufactured prior to 1996 year models, if the motor vehicle is
equipped with outside mirrors on both left- and right-hand sides of the vehicle
that are so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the highway through
each mirror for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of the motor
vehicle;
      (11)   Transparent material which is installed, affixed or applied to the
topmost portion of the windshield if:
         (a)   It does not extend downward the AS-1 line or more than five
inches from the top of the windshield, whichever is closer to the top of the
windshield; and
         (b)   The material is not red or amber in color.
      (12)   Vehicles not subject to registration in the State of Oklahoma;
      (13)   This section shall not prohibit the use and placement of federal,
state or political subdivision certificates on any window as required by
applicable laws; and
      (14)   Louvered materials when installed as designed shall not reduce the
area of the driver’s visibility below 50% as measured on a horizontal plane.
When such materials are used in conjunction with the rear window, the
measurement shall be based upon the driver’s view from inside the rearview
mirror.
   (F)   Anyone found guilty of violating this section shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $200 and court costs not to exceed $42.
(`90 Code, § 20-85) (Am. Ord. 3139, passed 7-6-04)
§ 20-207 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-1204) (`90 Code, § 20-86)
§ 20-208 CONTROLLED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway,
except at entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(47 O.S. § 11-312) (`90 Code, § 20-87)
§ 20-209 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while the vehicle is
in motion.
(`90 Code, § 20-88)
   (B)   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply
to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to persons
riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(`90 Code, § 20-89)
§ 20-210 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone or
island.
(47 O.S. § 11-1301) (`90 Code, § 20-91)
§ 20-211 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed or let fall
and remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass, stick or
other thing which is likely to injure persons or damage property, or to render
a street unsafe for traffic.
(`90 Code, § 20-92)
§ 20-212 MOTOR SCOOTERS AND THE LIKE.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor-driven cycle, including a
motor scooter or motor- driven bicycle, on a street in this city during a time
when state law prohibits the operation of the vehicle.
(`90 Code, § 20-93)
§ 20-213 WATER METERS NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED.
   The City Manager is hereby empowered to have a 24-hour removal time citation
tag affixed to vehicles or objects parked or placed blocking access to a water
meter.
(`90 Code, § 20-93a) (Ord. 2761, passed 2-19-85)
§ 20-214 SKATES, BLADES, AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED IN THE CENTRAL BUSINESS
DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person shall operate, ride upon, or propel any skateboard, roller-
blades, and/or roller-skates on or over any public street, sidewalk, alley,
plaza, or parking area within the Central Business District, defined as the
area of the west line of the Santa Fe Railroad track right-of-way east to Ash
Street east side right-of-way, to the north side of Cleveland north side right-
of-way, to the south side of Vilas, south side right-of-way nor on any sidewalk
or public street adjacent to the Guthrie Public Library located at the
northwest corner of Division and Cleveland, nor on any public park pavilion
within the city, nor on any public tennis court.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any public street,
sidewalk, alley, plaza, or parking area which has been closed or set aside for
the purpose of a community event, celebration, or festival for which a
revocable permit has been approved by the Council for the sole, limited purpose
of skateboarding, roller-blading, and roller-skating.
   (C)   Any person, entity or organization violating any provision of this
article is subject to prosecution in the municipal court and may be punished by
fine not to exceed $200 per offense plus court cost. Each day such violation
occurs shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 3123, passed 9-2-03; Am. Ord. 3167, passed 11-1-05)
§ 20-215 UNLAWFUL USE OF ENGINE AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases are defined as follows:
      ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE means a “Dynamic Brake”, “Jake Brake”, “Jacobs
Brake”, “C-Brake”, “Compression Brake”, “Paccar Brake”, transmission brake or
any other engine retarding brake system that alters the normal compression of
the engine and subsequently releases that compression in such a manner as to
emit more than 80 decibels of noise within/at a distance of/more than 50 feet.
    (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate
or cause to be used or operated within designated areas in the incorporated
areas of the city, any engine retarding brake, compression brake or mechanical
exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle
that results in excessive, loud, unusual or explosive noise from such vehicle,
unless such use is necessary to avoid imminent danger/emergency/to avoid injury
or accident. Such prohibition shall be applicable only to those public streets
and highways or portions thereof specifically identified in this section.
   (C)   The prohibition set forth herein shall apply to the following public
streets and highways in the city or portions thereof:
      State Highway 33 (Noble Ave.) from the western Corporate Limits to Pine
St.
   (D)   Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” or “ENGINE BRAKE ORDINANCE
ENFORCED” may be installed at locations deemed appropriate by the City Council
to advise motorists of the prohibitions contained in this section. The
provisions of this section shall be in full force and effect even if no signs
are installed.
   (E)   Emergency vehicles shall be exempt from the application of this
section.
(Ord. 3369, passed 5-17-22)
ARTICLE 12: PEDESTRIANS
§ 20-225 SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as heretofore
declared in this chapter, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted
those rights and be subject to the restrictions stated in this article.
(47 O.S. § 11-501) (`90 Code, § 20-94)
§ 20-226 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   If a pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety
and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
   (C)   Division (A) above shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
20-229.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
(47 O.S. § 11-502) (`90 Code, § 20-95)
§ 20-227 USE OF RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(47 O.S. § 11-507) (`90 Code, § 20-96)
§ 20-228 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except
in a crosswalk.
(`90 Code, § 20-97)
§ 20-229 YIELDING.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated in §
20-230, when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain designated
places.
(47 O.S. § 11-503) (`90 Code, § 20-98)
§ 20-230 PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place, except in a crosswalk.
(47 O.S. § 11-503(c)) (`90 Code, § 20-99)
§ 20-231 OBEDIENCE TO RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while the gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed.
(`90 Code, § 20-100)
§ 20-232 WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway
or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction,
and shall yield to approaching vehicles.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon any portion of a
bridge for the purpose of diving or jumping therefrom into a lake, river or
stream for recreation, and it shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to use a
bridge where sidewalks are not provided for the purpose of standing or
sightseeing.
(47 O.S. § 11-506) (`90 Code, § 20-101)
§ 20-233 SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, donation, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle. (47
O.S. § 11-507)
   (B)   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for
the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked
or about to be parked on a street or highway.
(`90 Code, § 20-102)
§ 20-234 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this article, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-504) (`90 Code, § 20-103)
§ 20-235 BLIND PERSONS CARRYING CANES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except persons wholly or partially
blind, to carry for use on the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city any
walking canes or sticks which are white in color, with red end or bottom. The
carrying of a cane shall identify the person as being partially or wholly
blind.
(7 O.S. § 11) (`90 Code, § 20-104)
§ 20-236 DRIVERS TO GIVE RIGHT-OF-WAY TO BLIND PERSONS.
   Any driver of a vehicle who knowingly approaches within three feet of a
person who is in the roadway or at an intersection and who is wholly or
partially blind and who is carrying a cane or walking stick white in color, or
white tipped with red, or who is using a dog guide wearing a specialized
harness, or who is wholly or partially deaf and is using a signal dog wearing
an orange identifying collar, or who is physically handicapped and is using a
service dog, shall immediately come to a full stop and take such precautions
before proceeding as may be necessary to avoid accident or injury to the person
wholly or partially blind, deaf or physically handicapped. For purposes of this
section a “dog guide” means any dog that is specially trained to guide a blind
person.
(`90 Code, § 20-105)
ARTICLE 13: BICYCLES
§ 20-250 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this article.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this article.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles subject to the exceptions stated herein.
(47 O.S. § 11-1201) (`90 Code, § 20-106)
§ 20-251 APPLICABILITY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of this city applicable to the driver of
a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this article and except as to
those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
(47 O.S. § 11-1202) (`90 Code, § 20-107)
§ 20-252 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to
make any turn, in which event the person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
(`90 Code, § 20-108)
§ 20-253 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(47 O.S. § 11-1203) (`90 Code, § 20-109)
§ 20-254 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-1205) (`90 Code, § 20-110)
§ 20-255 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(`90 Code, § 20-111)
§ 20-256 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of- way
to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(`90 Code, § 20-112)
§ 20-257 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(47 O.S. § 11-1206) (`90 Code, § 20-113)
§ 20-258 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(`90 Code, § 20-114)
§ 20-259 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   (1)   The City Manager is authorized to have erected signs on any
sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person.
      (2)   Where the signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person
shall yield the right-of- way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(`90 Code, § 20-115)
§ 20-260 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall be
visible from all distances from 500 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting
a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in
addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use
upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(47 O.S. § 11-1207) (`90 Code, § 20-116)
§ 20-261 PENALTIES.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this article shall
be punished as provided in §
12-34 of this code or by the impounding of the person’s bicycle for a period of
not to exceed ten days or by combination thereof.
(`90 Code, § 20-117) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
ARTICLE 14: MOTORCYCLES
§ 20-270 MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   (A)   No driver of a two- or three-wheel motor vehicle shall carry any other
person on, upon or within the vehicle on any street or highway or alley or
other public way in the city, except as hereinafter provided. If any two- or
three-wheel motor vehicle with a wheel diameter of 12 inches or greater shall
have either a double seating device with double foot rests or a side car
attachment, providing a separate seat space within the side car attachment for
each person riding therein so that the person shall be seated entirely within
the body or the side car, then it shall be permissible for an operator who has
attained the age of 16 years or older to carry a passenger.
   (B)   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his or her employee is
excepted from the provisions hereof. No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be
ridden upon any sidewalk of the city. Handlebars on motorcycles and motor
scooters shall not exceed 12 inches in height, measuring from the crown or
point of attachment. No rider of a motorcycle or motor scoter shall hold to any
moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
(47 O.S. § 40-103) (`90 Code, § 20-118)
§ 20-271 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a speed
greater than the speed limit legally posted. In no event, nor at any time,
shall an operator under the age of 16 years operate a motorcycle or motor
scooter at a speed greater than 35 miles per hour.
(47 O.S. § 40-104) (`90 Code, § 20-119)
§ 20-272 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to other requirements prescribed by federal or state law
or by local ordinance, all motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, and motor
scooters, except when operated on actual trail rides conducted outside of
public roads and highways, shall be equipped with:
      (1)   Two rearview mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less
than three inches in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of 200 feet to the rear of his vehicle;
      (2)   A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects. In lieu of such windshield, the operator
shall wear goggles or a face shield of material and design to protect the
operator from foreign objects;
      (3)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of the vehicle and to stop
and hold the vehicle, including two separate means of applying the brakes. One
means shall be effective to apply the brakes to the front wheel, and one means
shall be effective to apply the brakes to the rear wheel or wheels;
      (4)   A stop lamp on the rear of the vehicle, which shall comply with the
requirements of 47 O.S. §§ 12-206 and 12-219;
      (5)   A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least
the maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle;
      (6)   A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided
by the manufacturer;
      (7)   At least one lighted headlamp , but not more than two lighted
headlamps, which shall comply with the requirements of 47 O.S. §§ 12-201
through 12-203 and, for motor-driven cycles, 47 O.S. § 12-224;
      (8)   At least one tail light which shall comply with the requirements of
47 O.S. § 12-204;
      (9)   At least one rear reflector which shall comply with the
requirements of 47 O.S. § 12-205; and
      (10)    A horn which shall comply with the requirements of 47 O.S. § 12-
401.
   (B)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate or ride upon any
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or motor scooter unless such person is properly
wearing a crash helmet of a type which complies with standards established by
49 CFR 571.218.
(47 O.S. § 40-105) (`90 Code, § 20-120)
ARTICLE 15: METHOD OF PARKING
§ 20-285 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   Except as otherwise provided in this article, every vehicle stopped or
parted upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right-hand curb. Every vehicle stopped or parked upon the left-
hand side or a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs shall be parked or
stopped with the left-hand wheels parallel to and within 18 inches of the left-
hand curb.
(47 O.S. § 11-1004) (`90 Code, § 20-121)
§ 20-286 BRAKES; MOTOR NOT TO BE LEFT RUNNING; ANIMALS.
   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked. Animals
left or parked on the streets shall be securely hitched.
(`90 Code, § 20-122)
§ 20-287 SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING.
   The City Manager, subject to any directions which the Council shall cause by
motion or resolution, shall determine upon what streets and portions of streets
angle parking shall be permitted and shall have the streets marked or signed.
(`90 Code, § 20-123)
§ 20-288 OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE-PARKING SINS OR MARKINGS.
   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings.
(`90 Code, § 20-124)
§ 20-289 MARKED OFF SPACES.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space.
(`90 Code, § 20-125)
§ 20-290 PERMITS FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT AN ANGLE.
   (A)   The City Manager is authorized to issue special permits to permit the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of the permit. The
permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to the
owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the privilege as therein
stated and authorized herein. The City Manager may revoke permits at any time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of any permit.
(`90 Code, § 20-126)
ARTICLE 16: PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 20-300 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or ordinance
or the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, except in a parking space
officially marked;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection, except in a
parking space officially marked;
      (7)   Within ten feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway, except in a parking
space officially marked;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
city indicates a different length by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing, except
in a parking space officially marked;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and/or
the side of a street closest to the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance when properly signposted, except in a parking space officially
marked;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Upon a street or approved cutback;
         (a)   For a time period exceeding 24 hours;
         (b)   To display that vehicle for sale;
         (c)   For washing, greasing, or repairs, except as necessitated by
emergency;
         (d)   Adjacent to a yellow-painted curb;
      (16)   On any private drive or property without the prior consent of the
owner or that person legally in possession of such property;
      (17)   In that space between the curb, curbline, or roadway edge and the
private property line along any street, unless parking is in an approved
cutback provided for such parking;
      (18)   In a bus stop or taxicab stand, except:
         (a)   When the vehicle is respectively a bus or a taxicab; or
         (b)   That person is temporarily stopped therein for the purpose of
and engaged in loading or unloading passengers, so long as that does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the
designated area.
      (19)   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked or stopped at the edge
or curb of a street, except for the expeditious loading or unloading of:
         (a)   Passengers, for a time period not to exceed three minutes; or
         (b)   Freight, for a time period not to exceed ten minutes.
      (20)   At any curb loading zone, except for the loading or unloading of
passengers or freight;
      (21)   In any fire lanes, whether on public or private property;
      (22)   On any public property without proper authorization.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle
in any parking space, van- accessible parking space, side-striped area,
wheelchair ramp, wheelchair unloading area or any portion thereof on private
property accessible to the public and where the public is invited or public
property that is designated and posted as a reserved area for parking of motor
vehicles operated by or transporting a physically disabled person unless such
person has applied for and been issued a detachable insignia indicating
physical disability, and such insignia is displayed, or has applied for and
been issued a physically disabled special license plate and such license plate
is displayed pursuant to the provisions of the Oklahoma Vehicle License and
Registration Act. It is furthermore provided that the above-mentioned
designating detachable insignia or reflective insignia shall be obtained only
from agencies so designated by state law, which shall act as the distributing
agent for the aforementioned insignias.
   (D)   Enforcement and fines.
      (1)   The fine for violation of any of the acts listed in divisions (A)
and (B) of this section shall be $25.
      (2)   Violation of division (C) of this section shall be a misdemeanor
and upon conviction the person shall be fined $500. Provided, any person cited
for a first offense of a violation of this section who has displayed a placard
which has expired shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge and shall not
be required to pay the fine or court costs if the person presents to the court
within 30 days of the issuance of the citation a notice from the Department of
Public Safety that the person has obtained a valid placard. Fines collected
pursuant to this section shall be distributed as follows: 80% to the general
fund of the city, and 20% to a dedicated fund established by the Department of
Public Safety for the development, implementation and maintenance of a system
for the enforcement of the disability parking.
(`90 Code, § 20-127) (Am. Ord. 3211, passed 7-20-10)
§ 20-301 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in a manner or under
the conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle within a street or alley in a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(`90 Code, § 20-128)
§ 20-302 PARKING FOR PROHIBITED PURPOSES.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose
of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
   (C)   Washing, greasing, or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(`90 Code, § 20-129)
§ 20-303 PARKING TIME LIMITS MAY BE ESTABLISHED; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to
establish parking time limits, or to prohibit parking, on designated streets
and parts of streets, by having appropriate signs placed thereon.
   (B)   When such signs are in place, it is unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle in violation thereof.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) and (B)
shall be subject to a civil fine. A violation shall be indicated by the placing
of a notice of such violation on the windshield of the vehicle exceeding the
time limits.
      (2)   The notice shall be on a form prescribed by the City Manager or his
designated representative. The civil fine for such violation shall be $5 if
paid within two days from the date of the violation and $10 if paid after two
days from the date of the violation.
   (D)   (1)   The fine may be paid by mailing or personally delivering the
notice and a personal check or money order to cover the fine to the office of
the City Treasurer. Should the violator elect to object to the imposition of
the fine and to have a hearing on the violation, the person may so indicate on
the notice and mail or present it to the City Treasurer with a bond by cash or
money order equal to the fine pending the outcome of the hearing. The bond may
be used to pay the fine in the event the determination of the Municipal Judge
upholds the imposition of the civil fine. If no bond accompanies the request
for hearing, no hearing shall be granted.
      (2)   The request for a hearing shall be forwarded by the City Treasurer
or his designated representative to the Municipal Judge and the violation shall
be set for hearing. The person requesting the hearing shall be notified of the
time and place of the hearing by the City Treasurer’s office by mailing a copy
of the notice by regular mail to the address indicated on the request for
hearing. The Municipal Judge may take evidence of the violation and shall
determine if there has been a violation of the provisions of divisions (A) and
(B). If it is determined that there was a violation the Municipal Judge shall
enforce the fine indicated on the notice.
   (E)   Any vehicle having three or more outstanding civil fines against it
may be impounded by the Police Department. The vehicle may be retained by the
department pending the payment of all fines, towing and storage charges.
(`90 Code, § 20-130) (Ord. 2788, passed 12-17-85)
§ 20-304 PARKING MORE THAN 24 HOURS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer
than 24 hours. This section shall not affect parking limits established for
shorter periods.
(`90 Code, § 20-131)
§ 20-305 STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs or
marks are placed to permit such standing or parking. The City Manager, subject
to any directions which the Council may give by motion or resolution, is
authorized to determine when standing or parking may be permitted upon the
left-hand side of any such one-way roadway and to have signs or marks placed
giving notice thereof.
(`90 Code, § 20-132)
§ 20-306 LIMITED PARKING OF TRUCKS EXCEEDING ONE TON.
   Except for a period of three continuous hours during any day, all trucks
which exceed a weight limit of one ton are hereby prohibited from using the
streets and alleys of the residential areas of the city for parking purposes.
(`90 Code, § 20-133)
§ 20-307 PARKING PROHIBITED FOR GASOLINE TRANSPORT OR STORAGE TRUCKS, AND THE
LIKE.
   Parking is hereby prohibited in all residential areas of the city for all
trucks being used for transport or storage of gasoline, and trucks being used
for transport or storage of liquefied petroleum gas.
(`90 Code, § 20-134)
ARTICLE 17: STOPPING FOR LOADING AND UNLOADING ONLY
§ 20-320 CURB LOADING ZONES MAY BE DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to
determine the location of passenger and freight curb loading zones, and shall
have placed and maintained appropriate signs indicating the same and stating
the hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable. By the
same authority, such loading zones may be changed or discontinued.
   (B)   When such a loading zone is established on request of any person, the
City Manager shall not have signs placed until the applicant has paid to the
city an amount of money estimated by the Manager to be adequate to reimburse
the city for all costs of establishing and signing the same.
(`90 Code, § 20-135)
§ 20-321 STANDING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any
place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations
applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and then only for a period
not to exceed three minutes.
(`90 Code, § 20-136)
§ 20-322 STANDING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick-up
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
   (B)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
(`90 Code, § 20-137)
§ 20-323 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS REGULATED.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle open any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the
bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement
of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at anyplace for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
(`90 Code, § 20-139)
§ 20-324 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or stand
has been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that, the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter such zone.
(`90 Code, § 20-140)
ARTICLE 18: TRUCK ROUTES
§ 20-355 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   (1)   The Council, after holding a public hearing thereon, notice of
which shall be published at least ten days prior to the date thereof, may by
resolution prescribe routes through the city for the use of trucks in general
or trucks of particular kinds and other vehicles which are not ordinary private
passenger vehicles, passing through or within the city.
      (2)   The City Manager shall see that appropriate and adequate signs are
placed along the routes so that drivers of the vehicles may follow the
prescribed routes.
   (B)   (1)   Vehicles in excess of two tons prohibited from using certain
streets as follows.
      (2)   No person shall operate any vehicle exceeding a carry weight in
excess of two tons or in excess of two axles at any time upon any streets in
the city, except those streets designated as truck routes, and except that the
vehicles may be operated thereon for the purpose of delivering or picking up
materials or merchandise and then only by entering the street at the
intersection nearest the destination of the vehicle and proceeding thereon no
further than the nearest intersection thereafter.
(`90 Code, § 20-151) (Ord. 2626, passed - -)
ARTICLE 19: PENALTIES; PROCEDURES ON ARREST
§ 20-365 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any act
forbidden or to fail to perform any act required in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a parent of a child or the guardian of a ward to
authorize or knowingly to permit any child or ward to violate any provision of
this chapter.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to authorize or
knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his, her or its name to be driven
or to stand or to be parked in violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter or performs any unlawful act, as defined in this chapter, or fails to
perform any act required in this chapter, is guilty of an offense against the
city, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
12-34 of this code.
(`90 Code, § 20-152) (Ord. 2823, passed - -)
§ 20-366 ELUDING OFFICERS.
   Any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual and audible
signal, a red light and siren from a police officer driving a motor vehicle
with insignia showing the same to be an official, police, sheriff or highway
patrol car, directing the operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop and
who willfully increases his or her speed or extinguishes his or her lights in
an attempt to elude the police officer or willfully attempts in any other
manner to elude the police officer, or who does elude the police officer,
within the city, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(`90 Code, § 20-153)
§ 20-367 CITATION TAGS.
   (A)   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this chapter by delivering citation tags to violators
or, in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation
of this chapter, by affixing the tags to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred. The citation tags, among other things, shall indicate
briefly the charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle, and
shall direct the violator to present the tag at the police station or other
designated place within five days or another reasonable time as may be
specified thereon. Nothing in this section shall abridge the power to arrest
any violator had to take him or her into custody, or to file a complaint
against him or her at any time.
   (B)   The City Manager may require that the police officers use citation
tags furnished by the City Clerk and that the tags be serially numbered, and
may regulate the use and handling of citation tags.
(`90 Code, § 20-154)
§ 20-368 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CITATION TAG.
   If a violator of any provision of this chapter who has been given a citation
tag as provided above, fails to appear in accordance with the instructions on
the tag, the Chief of Police or his or her authorized agent shall send to the
owner of the vehicle involved a letter or other written notice informing him or
her of the violation and warning him or her to appear as directed and that, in
the event the letter or notice is disregarded for a period of ten days, a
complaint will be filed and warrant of arrest issued. Nothing in this section
shall abridge the power to file a complaint against him or her prior to the
expiration of the time.
(`90 Code, § 20-155)
§ 20-369 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of the parking, the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where
and for the time during which the violation occurred.
   (B)   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only with the procedure
of giving a citation tag has been followed.
(`90 Code, § 20-156)
§ 20-370 COMPLAINTS; WARRANTS ISSUED.
   In the event any person fails to comply with a citation tag given to such
person or attached to a vehicle, the Chief of Police shall have a complaint
entered against such person before the Municipal Judge; and the Municipal Judge
shall issue a warrant for his arrest.
(`90 Code, § 20-157)
§ 20-371 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUNDS VEHICLES.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove a
vehicle from a street to a garage or other place of safety under any of the
circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct or
causeway or in any tube or tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction
to traffic;
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury or otherwise incapacitated to an extent as to be
unable to provide for its custody or removal;
      (3)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic;
      (4)   When any vehicle has been parked for more than one hour in excess
of the time allowed for parking in any place;
      (5)   When any vehicle which has been involved in two or more violations
of this chapter for which citation tags have been issued and not presented as
required, is parked in violation of any provision of this chapter; and/or
      (6)   When any vehicle or object has been tagged 24 hours for blocking
access to a water meter.
   (B)   A vehicle impounded as provided herein shall be delivered back to the
owner or ether person to whom it may properly be delivered only after the fine
or fines and costs as may be properly assessed by the Municipal Judge for the
violation or violations for which the vehicle was impounded, and any reasonable
costs of or charges for impounding and storage, shall have been paid.
(`90 Code, § 20-158) (Ord. 2761, passed 2-19-85)
ARTICLE 20: INSURANCE VERIFICATION
§ 20-385 INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to issue
permits to any and all persons, firms, corporations, partnership, businesses or
entities which rent, lease or loan vehicles to any person, which vehicles are
to be operated or driven on or across public highways, streets, alleys or other
public ways within the territorial limits of the city which have previously had
their vehicle route or routes approved and duly adopted by the City Manager.
      (2)   No person, firm, corporation, partnership, business or entity shall
lease, rent, loan or operate or engage in the rental, lease or loan of any
vehicle without having first secured a city permit for such purpose.
         (a)   Casualty insurance in the amount of $25,000 for any claim or to
any claimant who has more than one claim for loss of property arising out of a
single act, accident or occurrence;
         (b)   Comprehensive public liability insurance in the amount of at
least $25,000 to any one claimant for a claim arising out of a single act,
occurrence or accident and $50,000 for any claims arising out of a single act,
occurrence or accident.
   (B)   The aforesaid insurance shall protect the city, its officials,
officers, employees and agents and the Public Works Authority, a public trust,
its trustees, officers, employees and agents from all liability, loss,
judgments, claims, damages, causes of action, costs and expenses arising from
or related to the permittee’s vehicle lease, rental or loan business operation
or the use of the vehicles.
(`90 Code, § 20-159) (Ord. 2727, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2998, passed 3-7-95)
§ 20-386 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted under §
20-385 shall be subject to a fine and costs as set forth in §
12-34 of this code of ordinances.
(`90 Code, § 20-160) (Ord. 2727, passed - -)
§ 20-387 PRODUCING PROOF.
   Any person producing proof in court that a current security verification for
or equivalent which has been issued by the Department of Public Safety
reflecting liability coverage for the person was in force at the time of the
alleged offense will be entitled to dismissal of the charge upon payment of
court costs.
(`90 Code, § 20-161) (Ord. 2727, passed - -)
ARTICLE 21: SURREY REGULATIONS
§ 20-400 PURPOSES AND EFFECTS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of these regulations to
protect the public peace, safety and welfare of the city and the citizens and
residents thereof through the regulation of human powered vehicles having three
or more wheels any of which is more than 20 inches in diameter, hereinafter in
this article referred to as “vehicle” or “vehicles,” which are operated upon
the public streets, highways and other public ways within the territorial
limits of the city.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this article.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to vehicles shall apply whenever a
vehicle, as such term is herein defined, is operated upon any public highway,
street, alley or other public way.
   (D)   Every person who drives, operates or is in actual physical control of
a vehicle is defined as a “driver” or a “operator” of the vehicle and is hereby
required to have issued to them and at all times to have in their immediate
possession, a valid license to operate a motor vehicle under the laws of the
state and shall display the same upon demand of a police officer, a peace
officer, a law enforcement officer, a Code Enforcement Officer or official or
the Judge.
(Ord. 2993, passed 9-6-94)
§ 20-401 APPLICABILITY.
   Every person driving a vehicle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
motor vehicle by state law, except as to special regulations in this article
and except to those provisions of state law which by their nature can have no
application.
(Ord. 2993, passed 9-6-94)
§ 20-402 OPERATION.
   (A)   A person propelling a vehicle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (C)   No person riding upon any vehicle, bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle
upon a roadway.
   (D)   Every person operating a vehicle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle, motor vehicle or a vehicle or motor vehicle proceeding in
the same direction.
   (E)   No person operating a vehicle shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents the driver from keeping both hands upon the steering
wheel, controls or steering mechanism.
(Ord. 2993, passed 9-6-94)
§ 20-403 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Every vehicle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the State Department of Public Safety which shall be visible from
all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful upper beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear shall be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   Every vehicle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Ord. 2993, passed 9-6-94)
§ 20-404 PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to issue
permits to any and all persons, firms, corporations, partnership, businesses or
entities which rent, lease or loan vehicles to any person, which vehicles are
to be operated or driven on or across public highways, streets, alleys or other
public ways within the territorial limits of the city which have previously had
their vehicle route or routes approved and duly adopted by the City Manager.
      (2)   No person, firm, corporation, partnership, business or entity shall
lease, rent or loan, or operate or engage in the rental, lease or loan of any
vehicle without having first secured a city permit for such purpose.
   (B)   The permits issued by the city shall be limited in duration to one
year and shall be subject to renewal upon payment of an annual permit fee,
subject to vehicle inspection and review of the business operation by the City
Manager or his or her designee for compliance with this article and any other
applicable regulations. In addition, each person, firm, corporation,
partnership, business or entity operating the vehicle rental, leasing or loan
business shall at its sole expense keep in effect during the term of the permit
the following casualty and general liability insurance in standard form
policies with an insurance company or companies authorized to do business in
the state:
      (1)   Casualty insurance in the amount of $25,000 for any claim or to any
claimant who has more than one claim for loss of property arising out of a
single act, accident or occurrence;
      (2)   Comprehensive public liability insurance in the amount of at least
$100,000 to any one claimant for a claim arising out of a single act,
occurrence or accident and $1,000,000 for any claims arising out of a single
act, occurrence or accident.
   (C)   The aforesaid insurance shall protect the city, its officials,
officers, employees and agents and the Public Works Authority, a public trust,
its trustees, officers, employees and agents from all liability, loss,
judgments, claims, damages, causes of action, costs and expenses arising from
or related to the permittee’s vehicle lease, rental or loan business operation
or the use of the vehicles.
(Ord. 2993, passed 9-6-94)
§ 20-405 PERMIT FEES.
   There is hereby established an annual permit fee and an annual renewal
thereof of $50 for persons, firms, corporations, partnerships, businesses or
entities which lease, rent or loan vehicles within the city to be operated or
driven on or across public highways, streets, alleys or other public ways for
businesses which own or have available for rent, lease or loan less than ten
vehicles, while the permit fee and annual renewal thereof for businesses which
own or have available ten or more vehicles shall be $100. The City Council
reserves the right to adjust the amount of the annual and renewal permit fees
from time to time by resolution.
(Ord. 2993, passed 9-6-94)
§ 20-406 APPROVAL OF VEHICLE ROUTES.
   Prior to the issuance of a city permit by the City Manager or his or her
designee, the permittee shall prepare and submit a proposed vehicle route or
routes, both in a written narrative form and in the form of a map, detailing
the route or routes proposed to be used by vehicles upon the public highways,
streets, alleys and other public ways within the territorial limits of the city
to the City Manager for review and approval of the proposed route or routes.
(Ord. 2993, passed 9-6-94)
§ 20-407 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Vehicles shall be operated or driven only during certain hours of each day
of the week within the territorial limits of the city, in order to protect and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare, as follows:
   (A)   Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
   (B)   Monday through Friday, 6:30 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   Saturday and Sunday, 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2993, passed 9-6-94)
§ 20-408 INSPECTION.
   All vehicles governed by the provisions of this article, shall be made
available to and inspected prior to initial operation of the permittee’s
business and annually thereafter by the City Manager or his or her designee to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this article and any other applicable
federal, state or local law. Each vehicle shall have a separate and unique
identification number permanently affixed thereto which is plainly visible at
all times to aid in the inspection process. There is hereby established an
annual inspection fee of $5 per vehicle to be paid to the city prior to the
actual inspection of each vehicle. In addition to the initial, annual and
annual renewal inspections, each vehicle is subject to physical inspection at
any and all reasonable times by the City Manager or his or her designee, law
enforcement officers, peace officers or the Code Enforcement Officer, in order
to ensure compliance with all of the provisions of this article at all times
and for which no fee shall be charged.
(Ord. 2993, passed 9-6-94)
§ 20-409 OFFENSE AND PENALTY.
   It is hereby declared to be an offense to violate any provision of this
article or any other provision the ordinances or the city code regulating the
operation of human-powered vehicles having three or more wheels, and upon
conviction thereof, a fine of not to exceed $100 shall be levied for each
offense, plus court costs. Each day a violation exists or continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2993, passed 9-6-94)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
ARTICLE 22: STATE MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
§ 20-501 STATE MOTOR VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code, 47 O.S., are hereby adopted
and incorporated herein by reference, and are enforceable by the city within
the city limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 3275, passed 10-20-15)
ARTICLE 23: GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES
§ 20-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled and low-speed vehicle that is powered by either an
electric motor that draws current from rechargeable storage batteries or other
source of electrical current or by a gas motor and is manufactured in
compliance with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration standards
for low-speed vehicles in 49 C.F.R. §571.500, et seq.
   LIABILITY INSURANCE. Liability insurance for the golf cart and/or UTV that
is issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the State of
Oklahoma and which is in the same amount required under Oklahoma law for other
vehicles, such as cars and trucks, that travel on state highways.
   REQUIRED EQUIPMENT. Shall mean:
      (1)   A brake system in good operating condition;
      (2)   A rearview mirror;
      (3)   Headlights that emit white light visible from at least 500 feet to
the front of the vehicle;
      (4)   Taillights that emit red light visible from at least 100 feet from
the rear of the vehicle;
       (5)   The original manufacturer’s exhaust equipment unless the golf cart
and/or utility vehicle is fitted with a more restrictive and/or quieter exhaust
system than the original;
      (6)   A lap safety belt for each seating location for each passenger; and
      (7)   A manufacturer's serial number plate.
   UTILITY VEHICLE (UTV). A vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine,
manufactured and used exclusively for off-highway use, equipped with seating
for two or more people and a steering wheel, traveling on four or more wheels.
(Ord. 3339, passed 9-8-20)
§ 20-602 USE OF GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Except as provided herein the operation of golf carts and/or utility
vehicles on city streets and highways is prohibited.
   (B)   Golf carts and utility vehicles may be operated on city streets and
highways subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The golf cart and/or utility vehicle must have all the required
equipment;
      (2)   The operator of the golf cart and/or utility vehicle is at least 16
years of age and possesses a valid driver's license;
      (3)   Standard hand signals for turning if golf cart and/or utility
vehicle not equipped with turn signals;
      (4)   A lap safety belt must be used by each passenger of a golf cart
and/or utility vehicle;
      (5)   No passenger under 13 years old is allowed to ride on a golf cart
and/or utility vehicle unless the driver of the golf cart or utility vehicle is
21 years or older;
      (6)   All passengers under 13 years of age shall be required to wear a
helmet which complies with the standards established by 49 C.F.R. Section
571.218.;
      (7)   Golf carts and/or utility vehicles may not be driven faster than 25
miles per hours;
      (8)   Golf carts and/or utility vehicles may not be operated on any
street or highway with a posted speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (9)   A golf cart and/or utility vehicle may operate on a state highway
within the boundaries of the City of Guthrie only if making a perpendicular
crossing of the state highway;
      (10)   Drivers of golf carts and/or utility vehicles must comply with all
federal, state, county, local laws, regulations and ordinances governing the
rules of the road, traffic and operation of motor vehicles;
      (11)   All golf carts and/or utility vehicles must have a valid permit
issued by the city which is prominently displayed on the golf cart and/or
utility vehicle;
      (12)   The headlight of a golf cart and/or utility vehicle must be
illuminated at all times while operating on city streets and highways;
      (13)   Proof of liability insurance covering the golf cart and/or utility
vehicle must be carried in the golf cart and/or utility vehicle at all time and
produced upon request of a police officer;
      (14)   The operation of a golf cart and/or utility vehicle may not
generate any dust or fumes which cross over to an adjoining or adjacent
prope11y that would interfere with the reasonable use of and enjoyment, whether
inside or outside, of the property; and
       (15)   The operation of a golf cart and/or utility vehicle may not emit
excessive noise that would interfere with the reasonable use of and enjoyment,
whether inside or outside, of adjoining or adjacent property.
(Ord. 3339, passed 9-8-20)
§ 20-603 REGISTRATION, INSPECTION AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Every golf cart and/or utility vehicle that is driven on city streets
and highways must have a valid permit issued by the city. The permit will be
valid for one year and may be renewed annually on January 1. The Police
Department shall issue a sticker as visible proof of compliance, which shall be
valid for a period of one year from January 1 to December 31, and which must be
displayed on the left rear of the golf cart or utility vehicle at all times.
   (B)   The following conditions must be met for a golf cart and/or utility
vehicle to be issued a permit:
      (1)   The golf cart and/or utility vehicle must be registered with the
City Police Department;
      (2)   The golf cart and/or utility vehicle must be inspected by the City
Police Department to ensure that it has the required equipment; and
      (3)   A $100 fee must be paid to the city for a new permit or to renew an
expired permit.
(Ord. 3339, passed 9-8-20)
§ 20-604 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who violates any federal, state, county, local law,
regulation or ordinance governing the rules of the road, traffic and operation
of motor vehicles shall be punished according to the provisions of the federal,
state, county, local law, regulation or ordinance.
   (B)   Any person who fails to have a valid permit and/or fails to have it
prominently displayed on the golf cart and/or utility vehicle upon conviction
shall be punished as follows, in addition to any court costs and statutory
penalties:
      (1)   First offense - Fine of $150.
      (2)   Second offense - Fine of $250.
      (3)   Third and subsequent offenses - Fine of $500.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
20-601 to
20-605 that is not already covered by divisions (A) and (B) above shall upon
conviction be punished with a fine of $150, in addition to any court costs and
statutory penalties.
(Ord. 3339, passed 9-8-20)
§ 20-605 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The permit to operate a golf cart and/or utility vehicle upon city
streets and highways may be suspended by the Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, if:
      (1)   There is any material misrepresentation made by the applicant on
the application;
      (2)   The required liability insurance is no longer in full force and
effect;
      (3)   There is evidence that the permit holder can no longer safely
operate the golf cart and/or utility vehicle; or
      (4)   For any reason that he or she feels is appropriate to insure the
safety and well-being of the citizens of the City of Guthrie.
    (B)   The Chief of Police, or his designee, shall issue a notice of
suspension of a permit in writing and either hand deliver the notice to the
permit holder or send it by certified mail to the permit holder at the address
on the application. The suspension of a permit shall be effective immediately
after personal service or on the third day after the post mark of the certified
mail receipt.
   (C)   Repeat offenders may have the privileges granted by this section
revoked by the City of Guthrie upon the recommendation of the City of Guthrie
Police Department.
(Ord. 3339, passed 9-8-20)
ARTICLE 24: WRECKER AND TOWING SERVICE CODE
§ 20-701 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the City Wrecker and Towing
Services Code.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-702 WRECKER AND TOWING SERVICES CODE ADOPTED.
   The Wrecker And Towing Services Manual, 2020 edition, as published by the
Oklahoma Department of Public Safety, or the latest version thereof, three
copies of which are on file with the City Clerk, is hereby adopted as the
wrecker and towing services code of the city, in the state of Oklahoma,
establishing and regulating the rules and procedures for the licensing,
supervision, administration and control of wrecker vehicles and wrecking and
towing services on the rotational log of the Guthrie Police Department,
providing for issuance of licenses and collection of fees therefor; and
providing each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions
and terms of the wrecker and towing services code.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-703 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of the wrecker and towing services code shall apply only to
those individuals, firms, or corporations providing wrecker or towing services
through the rotational log of the Police Department.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-704 SAVING VESTED RIGHTS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in the wrecker and towing services code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any
court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of
action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed nor
shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired, or
affected by this chapter.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-705 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   The city holds the right to amend the wrecker and towing services code of
the city from the time of its adoption and beyond when it deems it necessary
and proper to do so.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-706 WRECKER AND TOWING SERVICES OFFICIAL.
   The wrecker and towing services official of this city shall be the Chief of
Police or his or her designee and shall have the powers and duties prescribed
for by the “wrecker and towing services official” in this chapter and the city
wrecker and towing services code. His or her powers and duties may be exercised
by his or her authorized representatives under his or her supervision and
control.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-707 DUTIES AND APPEALS.
   The wrecker and towing service official shall be charged with the duty of
enforcing the wrecker and towing services code and all ordinances of the city
relating to towing services provided through the rotational log of the Police
Department. An appeal may be taken from any ruling, interpretation, requirement
or decision made by the wrecker and towing services official by filing a
written application with the City Clerk within five days from the ruling,
interpretation, requirement or decision. The appeal shall be heard by the City
Manager or the City Manager’s designee who shall issue a decision after meeting
with the parties. An appeal from the decision of the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee may be had by filing within five days from the date of the
determination by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee an appeal with
the City Clerk requesting a hearing before the City Council. The hearing before
the City Council shall be informal and subject to the procedures as determined
by the Council. The determination of the City Council in the matter appealed
from shall be final.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-708 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall be placed on the rotational log of the
Police Department to provide wrecker or towing services until a license has
been issued therefor as hereinafter provided. The requirements of this wrecker
and towing services code shall not limit the Oklahoma Highway Patrol or the
Logan County Sheriffs Department from utilizing wrecker services from wreckers
on rotational logs maintained by the Oklahoma Highway Patrol or the Logan
County Sheriffs Department.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-709 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Before any license shall be issued to a wrecker service to be placed
on the Police Department’s rotational log to provide wrecker or towing
services, the owner or lessee thereof shall file with the City Clerk a verified
application in writing setting forth:
      (1)   A current and valid wrecker license issued by the Department of
Public Safety;
      (2)   The vehicle identification numbers of each vehicle to be used as a
wrecker;
      (3)   The current license number of each vehicle to be used as a wrecker;
   (B)   The applicant shall also furnish proof, satisfactory to the chief of
police or his designee, that its primary lot and place of business are located
within the City of Guthrie. At the time of the adoption hereof, all wrecker and
towing services outside of the corporate limits of the City of Guthrie but
currently included on the Guthrie Police Department’s rotational log are hereby
grandfathered in as bona fide wrecker and towing service operators within the
City of Guthrie. If a wrecker or tow service grandfathered in as a bona fide
wrecker pursuant to this division (B) relocates its primary lot and place of
business to a location not within the City of Guthrie, then and in that event
said wrecker or tow service shall lose its status as a bona fide wrecker and
shall be removed from the Guthrie Police Department’s rotational log.
   (C)   Upon approval all operators/drivers approved by the city shall be
issued a wrecker operator identification card by the Guthrie Police Department.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-710 DENIAL OF LICENSE; GROUNDS.
   The Chief of Police shall have the right to deny the application of any
applicant who has entered a plea of guilty and been convicted, or entered a
plea of no contest, to any felony crime for a period of ten years from the date
the sentence, or period of deferral expired, or for any violation of the
wrecker and towing services code. The Chief of Police shall have the further
right to deny any application as to any vehicle therein listed and described,
or to revoke any such license, which is not in a safe and sound mechanical
condition, or to require an inspection of any vehicle. An appeal from a
determination by the Chief of Police may be had in the manner described in
section §
20-707 of this chapter.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-711 CANCELLATION OF LICENSE; GROUNDS.
   (A)   The violation of any of the ordinances of the city or of the laws of
the State of Oklahoma or of the laws of the United States government, except
for minor traffic citations, by any person, firm, or corporation while engaged
in the actual physical operation of a wrecker duly licensed under and by virtue
of this chapter shall be grounds for the cancellation by the Chief of Police or
his designee of the license of such wrecker, as well as any and all other
licenses issued hereunder to the owner, or operator of such wrecker.
   (B)   The failure of any licensee hereunder to keep and maintain its wrecker
(s) in a safe and sound mechanical condition, and to keep them properly covered
by insurance as provided for in this chapter, shall be grounds for cancellation
by the Chief of Police or his or her designee of the license covering any such
wrecker.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-712 SUBSTITUTION OF REPLACEMENT VEHICLES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation duly licensed to operate a wrecker
hereunder may from time to time substitute other wreckers for any of those then
in use by such person, firm, or corporation by surrendering the license
covering the wrecker no longer to be used and procuring from the City Clerk a
new license for the new wrecker to be used. The City Clerk is hereby authorized
and directed to issue without additional charge such new license upon being
furnished with proof, satisfactory to the wrecker and towing services official,
that such new wrecker is in a safe and sound mechanical condition, and upon
being furnished with written evidence that such new wrecker is properly covered
with insurance as provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
§ 20-713 LICENSE FEES; AMOUNT.
   There shall be paid to the City Clerk the sum of $100 for the license issued
to any applicant and annual license renewal fees shall be $50. The fee shall be
per applicant, regardless of the number of vehicles utilized by any single
operator. Each license shall expire the day the operator's state license is to
expire and must be renewed within 30 days of expiration.
(Ord. 3344, passed 1-19-21)
CHAPTER 21: TRANSPORTATION
Article 1: General Transportation Provisions
   
21-1.   Definitions
   
21-2.   License required
   
21-3.   Application
   
21-4.   Issuance of license
   
21-5.   Inspection, maintenance and equipment
   
21-6.   Public transportation driver's permit
   
21-7.   Operation of public transportation vehicles
   
21-8.   Establishment of routes
   
21-9.   Public transportation stops and stands
   
21-10.   Cancellation of license
   
21-11.   Railroads to improve crossings
   
21-12.   Failure to comply
   
21-13.   Speed of trains
   
21-14.   Railroad warning devices
   21-25.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL TRANSPORTATION PROVISIONS
§ 21-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUS. Any and all motor driven vehicles operated on a fare basis for each
passenger, over a scheduled route, within the corporate city limits of the city
for the purpose of transporting the public from a point within the scheduled
route to another point within the scheduled route.
   FIXED ROUTE. A route or designated path in which a vehicle licensed under
this chapter shall travel the entirety thereof on each trip the vehicle makes.
   OPEN ROUTE. A route or designated path in which a vehicle licenses under
this chapter shall travel within but not necessarily complete the entire route
on each trip the vehicle makes.
   PERSON. Any person, individual, firm, association, copartnership or
corporation.
   RAILROAD. A permanent road having a line of rails fixed to ties and laid on
a roadbed and providing a track for cars or equipment drawn by locomotives or
propelled by self-contained motors.
   SCHEDULED ROUTE. A fixed route in which a bus licensed under this chapter
shall travel with a time schedule to be met for a certain location designated
as “stops” along the route.
   SIGHTSEEING VEHICLE. A vehicle, either motor driven or horse drawn, operated
on a fare basis for each passenger (over a fixed or open route) within the
corporate limits of the city for the purpose of viewing points of interest and/
or transportation to and from points of interest.
   STAND. A designated location on a public street reserved for exclusive usage
by public transportation vehicles to receive and discharge passengers or for
vehicles and driver to remain while awaiting passengers.
   STREET. Any and all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes or public places in the
city.
   TAXICAB. Any and all motor vehicles of not less than two doors regularly
engaged in the business of transporting or carrying passengers for hire within
the corporate limits of the city and not operated on any route.
(`90 Code, § 21-1) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person either acting as owner, principle agent,
employee, lessee or licensee, to operate or permit to be operated upon the
streets of the city, any taxicab, bus or sightseeing vehicle without first
having procured a license therefor from the city, as hereinafter provided. §§
21-5(C),
21-5(D),
21-5(F) and
21-6(G) shall not apply to horse drawn carriages and trolleys.
(`90 Code, § 21-2) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 2904, passed 12-19-89;
Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   A written application for a public transportation license, signed by
the applicant or his or her duly authorized agent, shall be filed with the City
Clerk on a form to be provided by the code enforcement officer of the city.
   (B)   The applicant shall attach to the application proof of financial
responsibility in the following forms:
      (1)   A certificate of any insurance carrier authorized to do business in
the state certifying that there is in effect a policy of liability insurance
insuring the owner and operator of the business, its agents and employees while
in the performance of their duties against loss from any liability imposed by
law for damages, including damages for care and loss of services, because of
bodily injury to or death of any person and injury to or destruction of
property caused by accident and arising out of the ownership, use or operation
of the business, subject to the following minimum limits, exclusive of interest
and cost, with respect to each vehicle:
         (a)   $25,000 for one injury or death;
         (b)   $50,000 aggregate for an one accident;
         (c)   $25,000 for property damage in an one accident;
         (d)   $250,000 for one injury or death;
         (e)   $500,000 aggregate for an one accident; and
         (f)   $100 000 for property damage in an one accident.
      (2)   A bond of an insurance carrier duly authorized to do business
within the state in an amount equal to the aggregate amount specified in
division (B)(1) above. The bond shall exist in favor of any holder of a final
judgment against the licensee for damages, including damages for care and loss
of services, because of bodily injury to or death of any person and injury to
or destruction of property caused by accident and arising out of the ownership,
use or operation of the business after the bond was filed.
   (C)   (1)   When a policy of liability insurance is used to satisfy proof of
financial responsibility, the policy shall require the company to furnish 15
days written notice to the City Clerk prior to cancellation.
      (2)   Further, the policy shall carry an endorsement for actual notice to
the city of any changes in coverage, the notice to be furnished to the City
Clerk's office.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in this section, when the bond of an
insurance carrier is used to satisfy proof of financial responsibility, the
bond shall be filed, accepted, held and used to satisfy judgments against the
licensee in the same manner, and under the same conditions, as required for
taxicabs by the laws of the state.
      (2)   The bond shall not be canceled, except upon 15 days written notice
to the City Clerk.
   (E)   Any insurance policy or bond required pursuant to this section shall
remain in full force and effect during the term of the public transportation
license, and if the policy shall be allowed to lapse, is canceled, is exhausted
or shall not be renewed for any reason, the City Council may cancel the public
transportation license upon notice to the licensee and after opportunity to be
heard.
   (F)   The applicant shall attach to the application a vehicle inspection
form approved and signed by the code enforcement officer of the city. Prior to
the use and operation of any vehicle under the provisions of this chapter, the
vehicle shall be thoroughly examined and inspected by the officer.
(`90 Code, § 21-3) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-4 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon filing the application for a public transportation license with
the attachments provided for above, the matter of the hearing and the
application shall be brought before the City Council within a reasonable time
thereafter, at which time the applicant shall show by proper proof the
necessity, convenience and requirement for the license, and shall furnish
satisfactory information and proof that all vehicles proposed to be licensed
are in a first class mechanical condition. If the City Council determines,
after review of the application and insurance policy, that the license should
be issued, an order shall be entered in the minutes approving the application
and insurance policy, and directing the City Clerk to issue the license upon
the payment of license fees.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall not issue the license until the applicant shall
have paid to the city the appropriate fee set out in the fee schedule at the
end of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Licenses shall be issued on an annual basis only, and shall be due for
renewal on the anniversary date of the issuance. No refund shall be made for
any reason.
(`90 Code, § 21-4) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-5 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Any vehicle licensed under this chapter shall at all times be
available for inspection by any law enforcement officers or city officials for
any violation of law or city ordinance. The license issued by the City Clerk
shall at all times while the vehicle is being used or maintained or offered for
use to be hired to the public, be kept in a conspicuous place in the vehicle,
and shall be subject to inspection.
      (2)   Upon the inspection, if it be found that the vehicle operating
under this chapter does not meet the requirements established, the code
enforcement officer of the city shall cause the vehicle license to be suspended
until the time as the vehicle has been made to comply with the requirements.
   (B)   Vehicles are to be kept clean and the upholstery in good repair.
   (C)   Every vehicle shall be equipped with a frame for the proper display of
the owner's fare-rate card. The card relating to the fare to be charged shall
be so placed that it can be plainly seen by the passenger riding in the
vehicle. The type used for the printing of the rates shall be of sufficient
size so that it can be clearly read at a distance of five feet.
   (D)   (1)   Every vehicle licensed under the provisions of this chapter
shall have plainly painted upon the outside thereof, the name of the owner, the
operator or the company, the license number granted by the city and the office
telephone number, all of which shall be printed in letters at least two inches
in height on each side thereof, and also on the back thereof, if practicable.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful and an offense to permit any vehicle covered
by the provisions of this chapter to be operated upon the streets of the city
without any lettering or wording of identification as herein provided.
   (E)   When any, vehicle licensed under this chapter has been involved in a
reportable accident and if the vehicle is taken out of service, the vehicle
shall not be put back into service until repaired. It is the responsibility of
the owner to make necessary repairs before the vehicle is returned to service.
   (F)   The following special equipment shall be required on all horse drawn
vehicles:
      (1)   Solid waste bags mounted on harness;
      (2)   Triangular slow moving vehicle insignia affixed to rear of vehicle;
      (3)   If vehicle to be utilized at night, equipped with clear or white
sight lamps located on the front of the vehicle and red lamps located on the
rear of the vehicle; and
      (4)   Brakes or a braking device.
(`90 Code, § 21-5) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-6 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION DRIVER'S PERMIT.
   No person shall operate a vehicle for public transportation, as defined by
this chapter, within the corporate limits of the city, and no holder of a
public transportation business license shall permit it to be so driven unless
the driver of the vehicle has first obtained and shall have then in force, a
public transportation driver's permit issued under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (A)   Application for public transportation driver's permit shall be filed
in duplicate with the City Clerk's Office.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her appointed designee of the city shall
cause an investigation to be made of the facts set forth in the application.
The issuance of a license shall not be approved to any person whose general
reputation and responsibility or whose previous record as law violator is such
as to render the applicant unfit for an occupation.
   (C)   If the applicant is found to be a fit and proper person to operate a
public transportation vehicle according to the standards of this chapter, the
City Clerk shall, upon payment of a permit fee, issue to the applicant a public
transportation driver's permit.
   (D)   The permit shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of
issuance thereof, and shall be due for renewal on the anniversary date of the
issuance of the permit. The permit may be renewed by presenting to the City
Clerk a renewal application and payment of the permit fee.
   (E)   A driver's permit maybe revoked for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Upon conviction for a violation of any federal or state law
involving moral turpitude;
      (2)   Upon conviction of failure to make full report of an accident to
the Police Department within 24 hours of the time of occurrence;
      (3)   Upon conviction of leaving the scene of an accident;
      (4)   Upon conviction of operating a vehicle licensed under this chapter
while under the influence of intoxicants or while under the influence of any
narcotic drug, or any other drug or substance to a degree which renders him or
her incapable of safely operating the vehicle;
      (5)   For obliterating or erasing any official entry on his or her
permit;
      (6)   Upon conviction of a third roving traffic violation during one
permit year; and
      (7)   Misrepresentation of any material facts by a driver in his or her
application for permit.
   (F)   Revocation of permit is supplementary penalty to other penalties
provided by law.
   (G)   The permit shall be conspicuously displayed in a manner that the
entire card is visible and the only identification card displayed shall be the
one belonging to the driver who is on duty at the time. No driver shall operate
a public transportation vehicle unless his or her permit is so displayed.
(`90 Code, § 21-6) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 2904, passed 12-19-89;
Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-7 OPERATION OF PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES.
   (A)   Individual service shall be accorded the person or persons first
employing a taxicab at the rate of fare designated by the rate card posted in
the taxicab. No driver shall permit any other person to occupy or ride in the
taxicab unless the person or persons first employing the taxicab shall consent
to the acceptance of additional passengers.
   (B)   No vehicle shall receive or discharge passengers while in motion.
   (C)   Drivers shall not receive or discharge passengers in the roadway, but
shall pull up to the right hand sidewalk as nearly as possible, or in the
absence of a sidewalk, the right-hand side of the road and there receive or
discharge passengers. Passengers may be discharged on either side of a one-way
street.
   (D)   Vehicles shall make stops to discharge and take on passengers on the
far side of street intersections or in designated loading/unloading areas.
   (E)   No driver shall permit more persons to be carried in a vehicle
licensed under this chapter than the rated seating capacity of his or her
vehicle as stated in the application for license for the vehicle. A child in
arms shall not be counted as a passenger.
   (F)   No driver shall refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person are
persons upon request unless previously engaged or unable or forbidden by the
provisions of this chapter to do so.
   (G)   No driver shall receive, charge or collect any fares for transporting
passengers within the city greater than the rate posted.
   (H)   No person shall refuse to pay the legal fare of any of the vehicles
licensed under this chapter after having hired the vehicle. No person shall
hire any vehicle with the intent to defraud the person from whom it is hired of
the value of his or her service.
(`90 Code, § 21-7) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-8 ESTABLISHMENT OF ROUTES.
   (A)   All bus and sightseeing vehicle operators licensed under this chapter
shall submit proposed routes to be utilized by licensed vehicles indicating
whether the proposal is a fixed route or open route. Routes shall be reviewed
to insure the safety of passengers, the safety of other vehicular and
pedestrian traffic and to insure that the normal traffic patterns within the
city are not adversely affected. After approval of the proposed routes, the
vehicles shall operate only within the approved route.
   (B)   Permanent additions and/or changes in routes must be requested in
writing to the Public Transportation Authority which will make a study to
determine if the change or addition is appropriate and, if so, will approve the
request in writing.
   (C)   Temporary additions to the approved route must be requested in writing
to the Public Transportation Authority which will, if approved, issue in
writing permission specifying the exact deviation in route, the particular
vehicle involved, and the duration of the temporary change.
(`90 Code, § 21-8) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-9 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION STOPS AND STANDS.
   (A)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized and
required to establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and sightseeing
vehicle stands on public streets in places and in number as is determines to be
of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public.
   (B)   Every bus stop, bus stand, taxicab stand and sightseeing vehicle stand
shall be designated by appropriate signs.
   (C)   By the same authority, the stops and stands may be changed or
discontinued.
(`90 Code, § 21-9) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-10 CANCELLATION OF LICENSE.
   An owner or operators license herein provided for shall be canceled by the
City Council for the following reasons:
   (A)   Any false or misleading statements made or caused to be made in the
application for or in connection with securing the issuance of the license
herein provided for;
   (B)   Employment of any driver not duly licensed as such, as provided for by
the state;
   (C)   Violation of the provisions and terms of this chapter or permitting
violation; and/or
   (D)   The using or permitting of the use of any profane, obscene or vulgar
language over the business telephone or radio of the license.
(`90 Code, § 21-10) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-11 RAILROADS TO IMPROVE CROSSINGS.
   It shall be and is hereby made the duty of each and every railroad company,
or the lessees or the operators thereof, whose railroad tracks run into or
through the corporate limits of the city, where any track intersects or crosses
any highway, street, alley or sidewalk in the city, to grade and plank or
construct public highways, streets, alleys and sidewalks at the intersections
or crossings in the following manner or equal thereto, to wit: at the point
where the track or tracks intersect or cross any highway, street, alley or side
street, the track or tacks shall be made to conform to the established grade of
the public highway, street, alley or sidewalk, and shall be securely laid with
strong and substantial planks in a manner that the planks extend the entire
width of the public highway, street, alley and sidewalk or as far as the track
or tracks or track and between the rails thereof; the grading, planking and
construction and the repairs thereof to be done and maintained in good
condition by the company or companies owning, controlling or operating the
railroad, in every case to the satisfaction of the City Manager.
(`90 Code, § 21-11) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-12 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   For each and every day that any railroad company or the lessees or operators
or controllers hereof shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the
provisions of the foregoing section, they shall be guilty of a separate
offense.
(`90 Code, § 21-12) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-13 SPEED OF TRAINS.
   No passenger, freight or other trains operating an rails within the
corporate limits of the city shall be operated at a speed in excess of 50 miles
per hour at any time.
(`90 Code, § 21-13) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
§ 21-14 RAILROAD WARNING DEVICES.
   At all railroad street grade crossings in the city where the Corporation
Commission has not made any greater requirements as to warning devices, a
warning device facing oncoming traffic in each direction shall be erected and
maintained by the railroad company which operates trains, engines or cars
across the crossings. The warning devices, commonly referred to as “cross back”
signs shall be made of wood, metal or concrete with the words “railroad
crossing” printed thereon.
(`90 Code, § 21-14) (Ord. 2723, passed 8-16-83; Am. Ord. 3022, passed 7-15-97)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
CHAPTER 22: CABLE TELEVISION
Article 1: General Provisions
   
22-1.   Definitions
Article 2: Rates and Charges
   
22-15.   Initial review of basic rates
   
22-16.   Review of request for increase
   
22-17.   Cable operators information
   
22-18.   Automatic rate adjustments
   
22-19.   Enforcement; refunds
Article 3: Government Access Channel
   
22-30.   Short title
   
22-31.   Definitions
   
22-32.   Access policies and procedures
   
22-33.   Standards and guidelines
   
22-34.   Duplication of videos
   
22-35.   Program schedule
   
22-50.   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 22-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC CABLE RATES. The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic
service tier and the associated equipment.
   BASIC SERVICE TIER. A separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to all must-carry signals, all PEG channels and all
domestic television signals other than superstations.
   BENCH MARK. A per channel rate of charge for cable television service and
associated equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   CABLE ACT OF 1992. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
      (1)   Who provide cable television service over a cable system and
directly or through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in a
cable system; or
      (2)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
   CHANNEL. A unit of cable television service identified and selected by a
channel number or similar designation.
   COST OF SERVICE SHOWING.  A filing in which the cable operator attempts to
show that the bench mark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the
cable operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier
and to continue to attract capital.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES. The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic service tier, including charges for associated equipment, at the time
the city notifies the cable operator of the city’s qualification and intent to
regulate basic cable rates.
   MUST-CARRY SIGNAL. The signal of any local broadcast station, except
superstations, which is required to be carried on the basic service tier.
   PEG CHANNEL. The channel capacity designated for public, educational or
governmental use and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
   PRICE CAP.  The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
rates regulated by the city, based on a formula using the GNP fixed weight
price index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and
changes in overall inflation.
   REASONABLE RATE STANDARD. A per channel rate that is at, or below, the bench
mark or price cap level.
   SUPERSTATION. Any non-local broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite.
(Ord. 2982, passed 2-1-94)
ARTICLE 2: RATES AND CHARGES
§ 22-15 INITIAL REVIEW OF BASIC RATES.
   (A)   Notice. Upon the adoption of this chapter and the certification of the
city of the FCC, the city shall immediately notify all cable operators in the
city, by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the city intends to
regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier and associated
equipment as authorized by the Cable Act of 1992.
   (B)   Cable operator response. Within 30 days of receiving notice from the
city, a cable operator shall file with the city, its current rates for the
basic service tier and associated equipment and any supporting material
concerning the reasonableness of its rates.
   (C)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the City Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator’s rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment are
within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable
bench mark, the City Council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rates within 30 days from the date the cable
operator fled its basic cable rates with the city.
      (2)   If the City Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the city, the proposed
rates will continue in effect.
   (D)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the City Council is unable to determine whether the fates in
issue are within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the City
Council shall, within 30 days from the date the cable operator filed its basic
cable rates with the city and by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the
following additional, periods of time, as applicable, to make a final
determination:
         (a)   90 days if the City Council needs more time to ensure that a
rate is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard; or
         (b)    150 days if the cable operator has submitted a cost-of-service
showing seeking to justify a rate above the applicable bench mark.
      (2)   If the City Council has not made a decision within the 90 or 150
day period, the City Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate and on whose behalf the amounts
are paid.
   (E)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the City Council shall hold at least one public
hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (F)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed initial basic rate may request the City Clerk to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing
anytime before the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to
be made part of the record, the objector must provide the City Clerk with the
objector’s name and address.
   (G)   Bench mark analysis. If a cable operator submits its current basic
cable rate schedule as being in compliance with the FCC’s reasonable rate
standard, the City Council shall review the rates using the bench mark analysis
in accordance with the standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the City
Council’s findings, the initial basic cable rates shall be established as
follows:
      (1)   If the current basic cable rates are below the bench mark, those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator’s rates
will be capped at that level.
      (2)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the bench mark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator’s per channel rate on September 30,
1992, reduced by 10% or the applicable bench mark, adjusted for inflation and
any change in the number of channels occurring between September 30, 1992, and
the initial date of regulation.
      (3)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the bench mark, but the
cable operator’s per channel rate was below the bench mark on September 30,
1992, the initial basic cable rate shall be the bench mark, adjusted for
inflation.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator does not wish to reduce
the rates to the permitted level, the cable operator shall have the opportunity
to submit a cost-of-service showing in an attempt to justify a initial basic
cable rates above the FCC’s reasonable rate standard. The City Council will
review a cost-of-service submission pursuant to FCC standards for cost-of-
service review. The City Council may approve initial basic cable rates above
the bench mark if the cable operator makes the necessary showing. A cost-of-
service determination resulting in rates below the bench mark or below the
cable operator’s September 30, 1992, rates minus 10%, will prescribe the cable
operator’s new rates.
   (I)   City Council decision.
      (1)   Formal resolution. After completion of its review of the cable
operator’s proposed rates, the City Council shall adopt its decision by formal
resolution. The decision shall include one of the following.
         (a)   If the proposal is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard or
is justified by a cost-of- service analysis, the City Council shall approve the
initial basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
         (b)   If the proposal is not within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard
and the cost-of-service analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
the City Council shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within the
FCC’s reasonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost-of-service
analysis.
      (2)   Rollbacks and refunds. If the City Council determines that the
initial basic cable rates as submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or
that the cable operator’s cost-of-service showing justifies lower rates, the
City Council may order the rates reduced in accordance with divisions (G) and
(H) above, as applicable. In addition, the City Council may order the cable
operator to pay to subscribers, refunds of the excessive portion of the rates
with interest, computed at applicable rates published by the Internal Revenue
Service for tax refunds and additional tax payments, retroactive to September
1, 1993. The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the City Council’s decision
resolution.
      (3)   Statement of reasons for decision and public notice. If rates
proposed by a cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, or if there
were objections made by other parties to the proposed rates, the resolution
must state the reasons for the decision and the City Council must give public
notice of its decision. Public notice will be given by advertisement once in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city.
   (J)   Appeal. The City Council’s decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. 2982, passed 2-1-94)
§ 22-16 REVIEW OF REQUEST FOR INCREASE.
   (A)   Notice. A cable operator in the city who wishes to increase the rates
for the basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request with
the city and notify all subscribers at least 30 days before the cable operator
desires the increase to take effect. This notice may not be given more often
than annually and not until at least one year after the determination of the
initial basic cable rates.
   (B)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the City Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator’s rate increase request for basic cable service is within the
FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable price cap, the
City Council shall hold a public hearing at which interested persons may
express their views and act to approve the rate increase within 30 days from
the date the cable operator filed its request with the city.
      (2)   If the City Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the city, the proposed rates will go
into effect.
   (C)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the City Council is unable to determine whether the rate
increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the City
Council shall, by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the following
additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final determination:
         (a)   90 days if the City Council needs more time to ensure that the
requested increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard as determined
by the applicable price cap; and
         (b)   150 days if the cable operator has submitted a cost-of-service
showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the applicable price cap.
      (2)   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended review
period.
      (3)   If the City Council has not made a decision within the 90- or 150-
day period, the City Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose behalf
the amounts are paid.
   (D)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, the City Council shall hold at least one
public hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (E)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed rate increase may request the City Clerk to record the objection
during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing anytime before
the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to be made part
of the record, the objector must provide the City Clerk with the objector’s
name and address.
   (F)   Delayed determination. If the City Council is unable to make a final
determination concerning a requested rate increase within the extended time
period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if the City Council later issues a decision disapproving any
portion of the increase.
   (G)   Price cap analysis. If a cable operator presents its request for a
rate increase as being in compliance with the FCC’s price cap, the City Council
shall review the rate using the price cap analysis in accordance with the
standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the City Council’s findings, the
basic cable rates shall be established as follows:
      (1)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
      (2)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, the City Council shall disapprove the proposed rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator submits a cost-of-
service showing in an attempt to justify a rate increase above the price cap,
the City Council will review the submission pursuant the FCC standards for
cost-of-service review. The City Council may approve a rate increase above the
price cap if the cable operator makes the necessary showing. A cost-of-service
determination resulting in a rate below the price cap or below the cable
operator’s then current rate will prescribe the cable operator’s new rate.
   (I)   City Council decision. The City Council’s decision concerning the
requested rate increase, shall be adopted by formal resolution. If a rate
increase proposed by a cable operator is disapproved in whole or in part, or if
objections were made by other parties to the proposed rate increase, the
resolution must state the reasons for the decision. Objections may be made at
the public hearing by a persons requesting the City Clerk to record the
objection or may be submitted in writing at anytime before the decision
resolution is adopted.
   (J)   Refunds.
      (1)   The City Council may order refunds of subscribers’ rate payments
with interest if:
         (a)   The City Council was unable to make a decision within the
extended time period as described in division (C) above; and
         (b)   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         (c)   The City Council determines that the rate increase as submitted
exceeds the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify
the rate increase by a cost-of-service showing, and the City Council
disapproves, any portion of the rate increase.
      (2)   The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the City Council’s decision
resolution.
   (K)   Appeal. The City Council’s decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. 2982, passed 2-1-94)
§ 22-17 CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   In those cases when the cable operator has submitted initial
rates or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the
City Council may require the cable operator to produce information in addition
to that submitted, including proprietary information, if needed to make a rate
determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the information be
kept confidential in accordance with this section.
      (2)   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, the City Council may request additional information only in
order to document that the cable operator’s rates are in accord with the
standard.
   (B)   (1)   A cable operator submitting information to the City Council may
request in writing that the information not be made routinely available for
public inspection to the extent permissible under state law. A copy of the
request shall be attached to and cover all of the information and all copies of
the information to which it applies to the extent permissible under state law.
      (2)   If feasible, the information to which the request applies shall be
physically separated from any information to which the request does not apply.
If this is not feasible, the portion of the information to which the request
applies shall be identified.
      (3)   Each request shall contain a statement of the reasons for
withholding inspection and a statement of the facts upon which those reasons
are based.
      (4)   Casual requests which do not comply with the requirements of this
section, shall not be considered.
   (C)   Requests which comply with the requirements of division (B) above,
will be acted upon by the City Council. The City Council will grant the request
if the cable operator presents by a preponderance of the evidence, a case for
nondisclosure consistent with applicable federal regulations and state law. If
the request is granted, the ruling will be placed in a public file in lieu of
the information withheld from public inspection. If the request does not
present a case for nondisclosure and the City Council denies the request, the
City Council shall take one of the following actions:
      (1)   If the information has been submitted voluntarily without any
direction from the city, the cable operator may request that the city return
the information without considering it. Ordinarily, the city will comply with
this request. Only in the unusual instance that the public interest so
requires, will the information be made available for public inspection.
      (2)   If the information was required to be submitted by the City
Council, the information will be made available for public inspection.
   (D)   If the City Council denies the request for confidentially, the cable
operator may seek review of that decision from the FCC within five working days
of the City Council’s decision, and the release of the information will be
stayed pending review.
(Ord. 2982, passed 2-1-94)
§ 22-18 AUTOMATIC RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Annual inflation adjustment in accordance with FCC regulations, the
cable operator may adjust its capped base per channel rate for the basic
service tier annually by the final GNP-PI index.
   (B)   (1)    The FCC regulations also allow the cable operator to increase
its rate for the basic service tier automatically to reflect certain external
cost factors to the extent that the increase in cost of those factors exceeds
the GNP-PI. These factors include retransmission consent fees, programming
costs, state and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable television
service and costs of franchise requirements. The total cost of an increase in a
franchise fee may be automatically added to the base per channel rate, without
regard to its relation to the GNP-PI.
      (2)   For all categories of external costs other than retransmission
consent and franchise fees, the starting date for measuring changes in external
costs for which the basic service per channel rate may be adjusted will be the
date on which the basic service tier becomes subject to regulation or February
28, 1994, whichever occurs first. The permitted per channel charge may not be
adjusted for costs of retransmission consent fees or changes in those fees
incurred before October 6, 1994.
   (C)   The cable operator shall notify the city at least 30 days in advance
of a rate increase based on automatic adjustment items. The city shall review
the increase to determine whether the item or items qualify as automatic
adjustments. If the city makes no objection within 30 days of receiving notice
of the increase, the increase may go into effect.
(Ord. 2982, passed 2-1-94)
§ 22-19 ENFORCEMENT; REFUNDS.
   The city may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers a portion of
previously paid rates under the following circumstances:
   (A)    A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be in
excess of the permitted tier charge or above the actual cost of equipment; or
   (B)    The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order
issued by the city.
(Ord. 2982, passed 2-1-94)
ARTICLE 3: GOVERNMENT ACCESS CHANNEL
§ 22-30 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Guthrie
Government Access Channel Ordinance.”
(Ord. 3099, passed 2-19-02; Am. Ord. 3130, passed 3-2-04)
§ 22-31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words “shall,” “will” and “must” are always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   ACCESS PROGRAMMING. A show or program that airs on the Government Access
Channel.
   APPOINTED OFFICERS. Those persons appointed by the City Council to serve in
an advisory capacity on its boards, commissions, or committees.
   CABLECAST. Programming (exclusive of broadcast signals) carried on a cable
television system.
   CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS. Consists of the scheduled meetings on the first and
third Tuesdays of the month, including the Guthrie Public Works Authority, and
any special City Council meeting.
   CITY OF GUTHRIE or CITY. A municipal political subdivision of the State of
Oklahoma.
   ELECTED OFFICIALS. Those persons duly elected by the citizens of the city to
serve as the local governing body.
   FEDERAL ACCESS STATUTE. Section 531 of the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended.
   GOVERNMENT ACCESS CHANNEL. The municipal government access channel on the
cable system which is reserved for city-approved uses.
(Ord. 3099, passed 2-19-02; Am. Ord. 3130, passed 3-2-04)
§ 22-32 ACCESS POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The city shall adopt and enforce policies and procedures for the use
of the Government Access Channel that shall, at a minimum, include the
standards specified herein and shall comply with CoxCom, Inc. and the Federal
Access Statute. Failure to comply with these policies and procedures shall
result in termination of access to the Government Access Channel.
   (B)   Presentation of the following materials, programs, events, or
activities on the Government Access Channel shall be prohibited unless allowed
by state or federal law and specifically approved by the city:
      (1)   Any material, program, event, or activity designed to promote the
sale of products, trade, business, or persons for profit related to a
commercial enterprise activity. Nothing in this section shall prohibit material
being produced solely by the city as a documentary promoting economic
development, general health, education, or the public safety and welfare of the
community of the city.
      (2)   Any material, program, event, or activity designed to promote
political, religious, or sectarian causes or purposes within or without the
city.
      (3)   Any material, activity, program, or event designed to directly
promote or solicit membership in any club, fraternal association, sorority,
military, civic, non-profit organization, or religious or sectarian group in
the community or county.
      (4)    Any material which is intended to defraud the viewer or designed
to obtain money by false pretenses, representations, promotions, or promises.
      (5)   Libelous or slanderous material of a political or non-political
nature.
      (6)   Material that is obscene or indecent according to federal, state,
or local community standards, contains nudity, or is otherwise illegal.
   (C)   Eligible users. Access to municipal programming on the Government
Access Channel shall be limited to city departments, county, public schools,
state or federal government agencies, and non-profit community organizations or
civic organizations having an interest in city, county, educational, and public
activities which serve the overall public good and that are non-political, non-
sectarian, or non-religious in nature. Organizations involved with fundraising
activities or community promotions which serve charitable, community, or
educational purposes within the city or county are permitted to have their
activities and events listed on the Government Access Channel’s community
calendar of events when approved by the city. Display of material provided to
the city by all such users shall be permitted at the discretion of the City
Manager, his or her designee, or Council policy. Should city production
services be requested for allowable activities under this section, the cost of
production shall be negotiated by the City Manager and a fair value assessed to
the user desiring to broadcast material, programs, activities, or events, or to
have the city produce such material, programs, activities, and events. The city
shall be notified 30 days in advance of any desire to broadcast material,
programs, activities, or events not produced by the city or the desire to have
the city produce such material, programs, activities, or events.
   (D)   Channel operation.
      (1)   The city exclusively operates the Government Access Channel and is
solely responsible for everything related to the channel and its content.
CoxCom, Inc. shall have no right to exercise editorial control in any manner
whatsoever over the content of the Government Access Channel unless
specifically allowed by federal law.
      (2)   Organizations other than the city shall not be allowed to produce
“live” broadcasts outside the city facilities or utilize production companies
other than the city for “live” production, unless approved by the City Manager,
his or her designee, or Council policy.
(Ord. 3099, passed 2-19-02; Am. Ord. 3130, passed 3-2-04)
§ 22-33 STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Content guidelines. All materials produced by the city will be
copyrighted to the Government Access Channel under the banner of the city’s
Information Services Office. Putting the copyright date on the end of a program
will constitute copyright.
   (B)   Quality guidelines. Material provided to the city for broadcast shall
be in Mini DV (16 bit) (48 Hz) format or DVD and be of professional quality.
   (C)   Public meeting coverage standards.
      (1)   Every effort must be made to cablecast the City Council/committee
meetings in their entirety without editing.
      (2)   It shall be the policy of the city to retain a master copy of every
public meeting cablecast on the Government Access Channel for a period of three
years.
      (3)   A video recording of each meeting shall be maintained at the
Guthrie Public Library for a period of one year.
(Ord. 3099, passed 2-19-02; Am. Ord. 3130, passed 3-2-04; Am. Ord. 3199, passed
3-3-09)
§ 22-34 DUPLICATION OF VIDEOS.
   (A)   Video duplication shall be available to citizens pursuant to the Open
Records Act.
   (B)   Charges shall be assessed at $10 per tape or DVD.
   (C)   The city shall attempt to fill requests for tapes/DVDs within five
working days.
(Ord. 3099, passed 2-19-02; Am. Ord. 3130, passed 3-2-04; Am. Ord. 3199, passed
3-3-09)
§ 22-35 PROGRAM SCHEDULE.
   A program schedule shall be determined by the City Manager or designee.
(Ord. 3099, passed 2-19-02; Am. Ord. 3130, passed 3-2-04)
§ 22-50 PENALTY.
   If the cable operator fails to comply with a rate decision or refund order,
the cable operator shall be subject to a fine of $100, plus court costs for
each day the cable operator fails to comply.
(Ord. 2982, passed 2-1-94)
Cross-reference:
   Arraignment; pleading, see §
12-24
CHAPTER 23: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Article 1: Telecommunications Facilities
   
23-1.   Purpose
   
23-2.   Definitions
   
23-3.   Permit required
   
23-4.   Co-location requirements
   
23-5.   Standards
   
23-6.   Alternative structures
   
23-7.   Specific erection and operation standards
   
23-8.   Permit conditions
   
23-9.   Approval process
   
23-10.   Zoning requirements
ARTICLE 1: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 23-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations for telecommunications facilities are:
   (A)   To facilitate the provision of telecommunications services throughout
the city;
   (B)   To enhance the ability to provide telecommunications services to the
community quickly, effectively and efficiently;
   (C)   To encourage the location of towers in nonresidential zoned districts;
   (D)   To minimize the total number of towers in the community;
   (E)   To encourage the joint use of new and existing tower locations;
   (F)   To ensure that towers are located in areas that minimize adverse
impacts;
   (G)   To ensure towers and antennas are configured in a way that minimizes
adverse visual impacts by careful design, appropriate siting and landscape
screening;
   (H)   To encourage the attachment of antennas on existing structures;
   (I)   To consider public health and safety effects of telecommunications
facilities;
   (J)   To avoid damage to adjacent properties from tower failure through
careful engineering and locating of tower structures; and
   (K)   To protect residential areas and lands by minimizing adverse impacts
of towers.
(Ord. 3071, passed 10-17-00)
§ 23-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY SUPPORT FACILITIES. Support buildings, structures and equipment
cabinets, telecommunications facilities containing electrical and mechanical
equipment and devices used for the reception of or transmission of voice, data,
image, graphic and video programming information between or among points by
wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Clock towers, bell steeples, building
structures or building equipment normally maintained above the roof line of a
structure, light poles and similar alternative design mounting structures. An
ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE must be compatible with the natural setting and
surrounding structures, must camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas
and/or towers and be a minimum of 30 feet in height. This term also includes
any antenna or antenna array attached to the alternative tower structure.
   ANTENNA. Any exterior transmitting or receiving devices mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
excluding radar signals, wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals.
   BACKHAUL NETWORK. The lines that connect a provider's tower/cell sites to
one or more cellular telephone switching offices and/or long distance
providers, or the public switched telephone network.
   CO-LOCATION. The use of a single mount or tower on the ground by more than
one carrier or several antennas on an existing building or structure by more
than one carrier.
   FAA. Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. Federal Communications Commission.
   FALL ZONE. The area of ground within a prescribed radius from the base of a
telecommunications tower and antenna. The FALL ZONE is the area within which
there is a potential hazard of falling debris or collapsing material.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. The plant, equipment and property, including
but not limited to cables, wires, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennae, towers,
alternative tower structures, electronics and other appurtenances used to
transmit, receive, distribute, provide or offer telecommunications services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing or offering for rent, sale or
lease, or in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of voice,
data, image, graphic and video programming information between or among points
by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities, with or without benefits or any closed transmission medium.
   TOWER. Any structure designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of
supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers, guy
towers or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission
towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers and
other similar structures. This term also includes any antenna or antenna array
attached to the tower structure.
   TOWER HEIGHT. When referring to a tower or other alternative tower
structure, the distance measured from the lowest point within ten feet of the
structure to the highest point on the tower or other alternative tower
structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
(Ord. 3071, passed 10-17-00)
§ 23-3 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Telecommunications facilities shall be regulated and permitted pursuant to
this chapter and the zoning ordinance.
   (A)   A telecommunications facility shall obtain a building permit as a
condition for the siting, construction or operation of the telecommunications
facility.
   (B)   These regulations shall apply to all towers and antennas as defined,
except:
      (1)   Any tower or antenna not more than 70 feet in height, owned and
operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator if it is used
exclusively as a receive only facility;
      (2)   Any antenna co-located on an existing telecommunications facility,
except as expressly provided in this chapter; and/or
      (3)   A telecommunications facility located or co-located on property
which is owned by the city and designated by the city as a site suitable for
location of a telecommunications facility.
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In
addition to any other relief or penalty provided by law, the city may apply to
district court for an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 3071, passed 10-17-00)
§ 23-4 CO-LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All applicants for a telecommunications facility permit shall co-
locate on an existing facility if it is feasible to do so. An existing facility
shall be deemed to be available to the applicant for co-location if the
facility is within the search ring of the applicant or within a reasonable
distance so as to fit into the applicant's design. Space is available on the
facility. The facility owner will lease space to applicant at a reasonable
market rate.
      (1)   If the applicant finds co-location is not feasible, it shall submit
to the city a written statement of the reasons for the infeasibility. The city
may retain a technical expert in the field of radio frequency (RF) engineering
to determine whether co-location at the site is feasible. The cost for a
technical expert will be at the expense of the applicant.
      (2)   The city may deny the permit unless the applicant demonstrates to
the city by substantial evidence that existing telecommunications facilities
cannot accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna.
   (B)   A telecommunications tower shall not be permitted unless the owner of
the proposed tower certifies to the city that the tower is available for use by
other telecommunications service providers on a reasonable and
nondiscriminatory basis. Towers shall be designed and built to accommodate a
minimum of three telecommunications facilities.
   (C)   To facilitate co-location and coordination of telecommunication sites
all telecommunication service providers shall, within 90 days of the passage of
this chapter, provide the city with their respective master antenna plans. The
plans shall include detailed maps showing the locations of all
telecommunications towers serving any portion of the city and indicating their
coverage areas.
   (D)   Providers shall also provide the city with any updates to the above
documents within 90 days of their creation.
(Ord. 3071, passed 10-17-00)
§ 23-5 STANDARDS.
   (A)   The exterior of equipment buildings and/or metal equipment cabinets
visible from residential areas or public rights-of-way must have a neutral
aggregate finish or be painted to reflect the color and character of adjoining
structures or blend with adjacent landscaping and other surroundings.
   (B)   At the telecommunications facility, the design of the buildings and
related structures used in conjunction with telecommunications facilities
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping that will blend the telecommunications facilities to the natural
setting and the built environment.
   (C)   Guy wires must be anchored no closer than 25 feet from any property
line. Guy wires shall not cross or encroach any overhead telephone or electric
power lines.
   (D)   The height of a single antenna tower shall not exceed 150 feet. The
height of a tower with two or more antennas shall not exceed 195 feet. Maximum
height shall be measured from ground at base to highest point on tower and
antenna. A conditional use permit will be required for any structure that
exceeds 195 feet.
   (E)   Applicants will be required to demonstrate that the planned
telecommunications facility will not cause radio frequency interference with
other equipment. The interference is prohibited.
   (F)   All telecommunication facilities must have a five-foot buffer of
landscaping outside the perimeter of the fenced facilities.
   (G)   The base of the tower and any accessory support facilities such as
anchored locations of guy wires shall be screened from view with a solid fence,
which shall be a minimum of six feet in height.
   (H)   Illumination of a tower is prohibited except as required by the FAA.
Strobes shall not be used for night time lighting. Any required lighting shall
be directed upward and away from adjoining properties. In addition, the ground
level security lighting shall not be more than 20 feet in height and shall be
focused to avoid conflict with vehicle operators in a public right-of-way.
   (I)   The applicant will be required to provide ingress/egress only from
approved access points and a minimum of one off-street parking space per
provider.
   (J)   Distances and setbacks.
      (1)   Towers shall have a setback equal to at least 100% of the height of
the tower from its base or 75 feet, whichever distance is greater. However, for
towers of a monopole design, if an independent structural engineer agreeable to
the city specifies in a written document sealed by an Oklahoma Licensed
Engineer that any collapse of the monopole tower will occur within a lesser
distance under all foreseeable circumstances the Planning Director may approve
a shorter setback.
      (2)   Wireless telecommunication equipment support facilities shall meet
the minimum zoning district setbacks or 25 feet, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Towers shall be setback a minimum distance of 100% of the height of
the tower from any residential district.
   (K)   Signs on telecommunication towers shall only display the name,
registration and emergency contact number of the tower owner with the exception
of signs required by FCC regulations or signs containing warning or safety
instructions. Signs are limited to four square feet in size and advertising is
expressly prohibited.
   (L)   No tower shall be closer than 500 feet from another tower. Any new
telecommunications tower in excess of 180 in height must be located a minimum
of one mile from any existing tower in excess of 180 feet in height.
   (M)    Support facilities can be no more than 350 square feet of gross floor
area nor more than 12 feet in height per user. Minimum setback requirements of
the zoning district apply to the accessory support facilities.
(Ord. 3071, passed 10-17-00; Am. Ord. 3356, passed 6-1-21)
§ 23-6 ALTERNATIVE STRUCTURES.
   Telecommunications facilities may be permitted on an alternative tower
structure at least 30 feet tall under the following conditions, which shall be
in addition to the requirements of §§
23-5 and
23-7.
   (A)   The facility and its accessory support facilities comply with all
zoning requirements applicable to the alternate structure and the provisions of
§
23-5;
   (B)   If the facility or an accessory support facility is located upon the
roof of a structure, each facility shall be set back a distance from the roof
edge at least equal to the height of the telecommunications facility unless the
facilities are screened or camouflaged in a manner that is compatible with the
surrounding property; (The top of the antenna or other facility shall not be
more than 30% of the height of the alternate structure or 75 feet whichever is
less.)
   (C)   The alternative structure must be similar in color, scale and
character to adjoining buildings or structures or blend with the landscaping
and other surroundings immediately adjacent to them so as to generally avoid
the creation of unique visual objects that stand out in the environment; and
   (D)   Prior to the installation of any building/roof mounted
telecommunications facility, the applicant shall furnish to the city a
structural engineer's certification that the building structure will support
and not be adversely affected by the proposed antenna and accessory support
facility or equipment.
(Ord. 3071, passed 10-17-00)
§ 23-7 SPECIFIC ERECTION AND OPERATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   All telecommunications facilities shall be erected and operated in
compliance with current Federal Communication Commission (FCC) and Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) rules and regulations and other applicable
federal, state and local standards.
   (B)   The tower owner is required to provide documentation that the power
density levels do not exceed federally approved levels or American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) standards, whichever provides the stricter
requirements.
   (C)   An applicant must provide a copy of its FCC license or, if the
applicant is not an FCC license holder, a copy of at least one letter of
commitment from an FCC license holder to locate at least one antenna on the
applicant's tower.
   (D)   Telecommunication facilities shall not be permitted in any wetland,
floodplain or wilderness or wildlife area and disturbance to wetland buffer
areas shall be minimized. A telecommunication facility shall not be permitted
in any area where it would threaten endangered species or critical habitats.
Telecommunication facilities shall not be permitted where they would
significantly change surface area, contribute significantly to deforestation or
create significant water diversions. Stormwater runoff shall be contained on-
site at all telecommunication facilities. Ground-mounted equipment for personal
wireless service facilities shall not generate noise in excess of 50 db at the
property line. Roof-mounted or side-mounted equipment for personal wireless
service facilities shall not generate noise in excess of 50 db at ground level
at the base of the building closest to the antenna.
   (E)   Telecommunications tower structures must conform to the most current
revision of EIA 222 standards. Guyed telecommunications towers shall be
designed and located such that, if the structure should fall, it will avoid
habitable structures and public ways. The applicant must supply a structural
engineer's certification of the structural integrity of the tower and
associated equipment. If more than one user is involved, the applicant shall
supply certification that the tower has sufficient integrity to accommodate
more than one user.
   (F)   Telecommunications facilities shall be designed and engineered to
withstand wind loadings and other design standards, as defined by BOCA and
ANSI, for the county.
(Ord. 3071, passed 10-17-00)
§ 23-8 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of property within the city shall permit, leave
or cause to be left on the property any telecommunications facility which has
been abandoned or discontinued for use. The provider shall remove its facility
within 90 days of the date that it discontinues its use of the facility. If the
provider fails to remove the facility within the required time, the facility
shall be deemed to be abandoned. The city shall have authority to enter the
premises and remove the abandoned facilities. All costs of removal shall be
collected from the provider in the manner provided for summary abatement of
nuisance. This requirement shall apply to co-located facilities unless the co-
location agreement provides for the removal of abandoned facilities by the
tower operator.
   (B)   Defective or unsafe antennas, telecommunication towers or
telecommunication facilities are to be repaired or removed within 90 days at
the owner or operator's expense. If the facilities are not operated for a
continuous period of 24 months they shall be considered abandoned and must be
removed within 90 days. If not removed, the city may remove at the expense of
the owner or operator.
   (C)   Any telecommunications towers or telecommunications facilities
existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter and not conforming to its
provisions shall be considered legal and nonconforming. These facilities shall
be permitted to remain provided that they are not:
      (1)   Expanded or increased in height;
      (2)   Restored after damage or destruction, by any means, exceeding 50%
of the estimated replacement value; and
      (3)   A hazard to safety, health or welfare.
(Ord. 3071, passed 10-17-00)
§ 23-9 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   (1)   Except for a proposed telecommunications facility which will co-
locate on an existing tower, the applicant for a telecommunications facility
permit shall notify all property owners within 300 of the outer boundary of the
property proposed for location of the facility. The notice shall describe the
boundaries of the property included in the application, explain the character
and dimensions of the proposed telecommunications facility and give an address
for the property owners to submit written comments to the applicant.
      (2)   The notice shall include a drawing or other representation of the
visual aspect of the proposed facility. The notice shall also contain the date,
which shall be not less than 15 days after the mailing date set for
consideration of the application by the Community Development and Planning
Department.
   (B)   The permit process will be administered by the Community Development
and Planning Department.
   (C)   Applicant shall pay a fee as set in the fee schedule at the end of
this code of ordinances. The permit fee is nonrefundable even if the permit is
denied.
   (D)   The applicant must submit to the office of the Community Development
and Planning Department along with his or her application, an inventory and
contour map of existing facilities that are within the city and at least five
miles from the city limits, including specific information about the location,
height, coverage, capacity and design of each telecommunications facility,
telecommunication tower and antenna.
   (E)   The Community Development and Planning Department will develop, update
and maintain an inventory of towers and antennas.
(Ord. 3071, passed 10-17-00)
§ 23-10 ZONING REQUIREMENTS.
   Applicants for telecommunication facilities must verify zoning compliance in
accordance with the zoning chapter, as amended. Conditional use permit
approvals may be necessary to gain compliance.
(Ord. 3071, passed 10-17-00)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
         
II.   STREET CLOSINGS
         
III.   ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
         
IV.   REZONINGS
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2525     9-4-73      Granting an electricity franchise to the Oklahoma Gas and
                     Electric Company
2952     11-5-91     Granting a non-exclusive cable television franchise to
                     Broadband Telecommunications Network
3033     2-17-98     Granting an electricity franchise to the Oklahoma Gas and
                     Electric Company
3370     6-7-22      Granting an electricity franchise to the Oklahoma Gas and
                     Electric Company for a period of 25 years
                     Granting a gas franchise to One Gas, Inc., by and through
3402     11-7-23     its Oklahoma Natural Gas Company division, for a period of
                     25 years
 
TABLE II: STREET CLOSINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date    Description
No.  Passed
2798 8-5-86  Closing the alley east and west in Block 12 in the Oak Park
             Addition
2937 4-16-91 Closing the street located between Lots B and G
2947 8-6-91  Closing a portion of Wehr Drive
2992 8-2-94  Closing a portion of Jefferson Avenue
3015 5-6-97  Closing a portion of East Jackson Avenue
3030 11-4-97 Closing a portion of West Ridgecrest Road
3044 1-19-99 Closing an undeveloped right-of-way in the 1800 Block of West
             Springer Avenue
             Closing the public street, 400 Block of South Wentz and the
3103 6-18-02 east/west alley lying in the west half of Block 76, East
             Guthrie Townsite addition
3153 2-1-05  Closing the east/west alley lying in the east half of Block 33,
             East Guthrie Townsite addition
3166 10-4-05 Closing the east/west alley lying in Block 61, East Guthrie
             Townsite addition
3213 9-7-10  Closing the west half of the east/west alley lying in Block 75
             of the city to public use
3232 5-1-12  Closing a portion of the east/west alley lying in Block 5 of
             the city to public use
3233 6-19-12 Amending Ord. 3232 closing a portion of the east/west alley
             lying in Block 5 of the city to public use
3248 8-6-13  Closing a portion of the north/south alley lying in Block 44 to
             public use
3302 11-1-16 Closing portions of the right-of-way lying in Blocks 1-2 of the
             Oak Park Addition to public use
3305 12-6-16 Closing portions of the right-of-way lying in Block 85 of the
             Guthrie Proper Addition to public use
3306 1- -17  Closing a right-of- way (utility easement) lying in Block 3 of
             the Pinebrook Addition–2 to public use
3310 9-5-17  Closing a portion of the right-of-way lying in Block 4 of the
             Fourth Capital Heights Addition to public use
             Closing a portion of Poplar Street being 15 feet wide and 140
3316 2-5-19  feet long directly west of and adjacent to Lot 10 of Block 84,
             Capitol Hill
3335 8-4-20  Closing portions of rights-of-way lying in Blocks 8, 9, and 16,
             Olivers 1st Addition
             Closing portions of rights-of-way lying in Blocks 6, 7, 8, 9,
3336 8-4-20  19, 20, 25, 26, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and 41, Guthrie
             Proper, and Blocks 1, 29 and 42, West Guthrie, subdivisions of
             the city
3349 2-2-21  Closing a portion of right-of-way lying in East Towne Village,
             a subdivision of the city
             Closing the east-west alley located in Block 2, between Lots 1-
3360 9-7-21  17 both inclusive and Lots 18-34 both inclusive, Belyea 2nd
             Addition
             Closing portions of rights-of-way in Block 1, Welch Heights:
3361 10-5-21     1. A portion of Oklahoma Avenue adjacent to Lots 3 and 4
                 2. A portion of an alley adjacent to Lots 3, 4, 5, and 6
3362 10-5-21 Closing an alley located in Block 92 adjacent to Lots 6-9 and
             16-19, East Guthrie
             Closing a street and alley rights-of-way lying in Block 6,
3407 2-20-24 Capital Heights 4th Addition and Block 24, Capital Heights 3rd
             Addition
            
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2799     8-19-86     Annexation extending the city limits
2826     9-3-87      Deannexation of certain territory
2829     10-30-87    Deannexation of certain territory
2830     10-20-87    Deannexation of certain territory
2840     4-5-88      Annexation extending the city limits
2902     6-5-89      Annexation extending the city limits
2885     6-20-89     Annexation extending the city limits
2886     6-20-89     Annexation extending the city limits
2891     7-18-89     Deannexation of certain territory
2894     9-19-89     Annexation extending the city limits
2898     10-3-89     Annexation extending the city limits
2913     3-20-90     Annexation extending the city limits
2906     12-18-89    Annexation extending the city limits
2941     3-19-90     Annexation extending the city limits
2913     3-20-90     Annexation extending the city limits
2944     4-2-90      Deannexation of certain property
2903     6-5-90      Deannexation of certain property
2977     10-5-93     Annexation extending the city limits
3110     3-4-03      Annexation extending the city limits
3218     1-18-11     Annexation extending the city limits
3231     5-1-12      Deannexation of certain property
3241     2-18-14     Deannexation of certain property
3251     6-3-14      Annexation extending the city limits
3256     6-17-14     Establishing effective date of Ord. 3251 regarding
                     annexation
3257     7-1-14      Annexation extending the city limits
3260     9-11-14     Establishing effective date of Ord. 3251, as amended by
                     Ord. 3256 regarding annexation
3266     1-6-15      Annexation extending the city limits
3267     2-3-15      Annexation extending the city limits
 
TABLE IV: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2805     12-3-86     Rezoning certain property
2806     12-16-86    Rezoning certain property
2816     6-16-87     Rezoning certain property
2819     7-7-87      Rezoning certain property
2827     9-1-87      Rezoning certain property
2842     5-17-88     Rezoning certain property
2854     12-20-88    Rezoning certain property
2899     10-17-89    Rezoning certain property
2975     10-5-93     Rezoning certain property
2976     10-5-93     Rezoning certain property
2981     2-1-94      Rezoning certain property
2987     4-5-94      Rezoning certain property
2994     10-4-94     Rezoning certain property
3002     8-15-95     Rezoning certain property
3005     2-6-96      Rezoning certain property
3014     5-6-97      Rezoning certain property
3016     5-20-97     Rezoning certain property
3026     9-16-97     Rezoning certain property
3035     6-2-98      Rezoning certain property
3043     1-25-99     Rezoning certain property
3049     2-16-99     Rezoning certain property
3050     6-1-99      Rezoning certain property
3056     1-18-00     Rezoning certain property
3057     2-15-00     Rezoning certain property
3068     8-15-00     Rezoning certain property
3098     1-22-02     Rezoning certain property
3106     8-20-02     Rezoning certain property
3142     10-19-04    Rezoning certain property
3158     5-3-05      Rezoning certain property
3159     6-7-05      Rezoning certain property
3178     11-7-06     Rezoning certain property
3180     12-19-06    Rezoning certain property
3181     12-19-06    Rezoning certain property
3183     5-15-07     Rezoning certain property
3184     6-5-07      Rezoning certain property
3270     5-5-15      Rezoning certain property
3272     8-18-15     Rezoning certain property
3273     8-18-15     Rezoning certain property
3281     2-16-16     Rezoning certain property
3282     2-16-16     Rezoning certain property
3287     4-5-16      Rezoning certain property
3290     7-19-16     Rezoning certain property
3312     12-19-17    Rezoning certain property
3313     3-6-18      Rezoning a portion of the tract of land at 1100 W. Lake
                     Road from R-1 to A-2
3314     8-21-18     Rezoning the tract of land at 2001 W. Oklahoma Avenue from
                     R-1 to C-1
3317     5-7-19      Rezoning a portion of the tract of land at 423 S. Division
                     from R-1 to C-2
3325     12-3-19     Rezoning a portion of the tract of land located along E.
                     Springer Avenue from R-1 to R-2
3326     1-7-20      Rezoning a portion of the tract of land located at 2121 W.
                     Noble from R-1 to C-2
                     Rezoning a 77.24 acre tract of land located on the east
3337     8-4-20      side of Midwest Blvd. at the intersection of Midwest Blvd.
                     and College Avenue from no zoning to I-1
3343     11-10-20    Rezoning a portion of the tract of land located at 402 S.
                     3rd Street from R-1 to R-2
3345     2-2-21      Rezoning a portion of a tract of land from R-1 to R-1/PUD
3347     2-2-21      Rezoning a 3-acre tract of land located at 811 S. Division
                     St. from A-1 to C-2
3348     2-2-21      Rezoning a 1.94-acre tract of land located at 819 S.
                     Division St. from A-1 to C-2
3350     5-4-21      Rezoning a portion of a tract of land located at 221 N.
                     2nd St. from C-2 to CBD
3351     6-1-21      Rezoning a 0.195-acre tract of land located at 821 S.
                     Division St. from A-1 to C-2
3352     6-1-21      Rezoning a portion of the tract of land located at 711 E.
                     Springer Avenue from R-1 to R-2
                     Rezoning a 13.73-acre tract of land located at the
3353     6-1-21      northwest corner of Hillcrest Ave. and Pine St. from A-
                     2 to R-1
3355     6-1-21      Rezoning a portion of a tract of land from R-1 to R-1/PUD
3359     8-3-21      Rezoning a 1.55-acre tract of land located at 422 W.
                     Triplett Rd. from C-2 to A-2
3363     12-7-21     Rezoning certain property from R-1 to R-2/PUD
3364     12-21-21    Rezoning a tract of land located at 1923 W. Noble Ave.
                     from R-1 to C-1
3365     12-21-21    Rezoning a portion of land located at 622 E. Prairie Grove
                     Road from I-1 to C-2
3371     6-7-22      Rezoning a tract of land located at 706 S. Capitol St.
                     from R-1 to R-2
3372     6-21-22     Rezoning a tract of land located at 722 E. Cleveland Ave.
                     from R-1 to R-2
3376     11-1-22     Rezoning a portion of a tract of land from R-1 to R-2/PUD
3379     1-3-23      Rezoning a tract of land located at 1911 E. Oklahoma Ave.
                     from R-5 to C-1
3380     1-3-23      Rezoning a portion of a tract of land from C-2 to C-2/PUD
3388     4-4-23      Rezoning a tract of land located at 723 N. 20th St. from
                     R-1 to R-2
3390     5-2-23   Rezoning a tract of land located at 1310 E. Lincoln Ave.
                     from R-1 to R-2
                     Rezoning a 6.57-acre tract of land and a 0.94-acre tract
3391     5-2-23      of land generally located along S. Sooner Rd. from C-2 to
                     R-1
3392     6-6-23      Rezoning a tract of land located at 1102 W. Mansur Ave.
                     from R-1 to R-2
3396     9-5-23      Rezoning a portion of a tract of land from C-/PUD to C-2
3397     9-5-23      Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to R-2
3398     9-5-23      Rezoning a tract of land located at 214 N. Cedar Ave. from
                     R-1 to R-2
3399     9-5-23      Rezoning a tract of land located at 1802 W. Logan Ave.
                     from R-1 to R-2
3404     1-2-24      Rezoning a tract of land located at 1821 E. Rutgers Ave.
                     from R-1 to R-2
3406     2-20-24     Rezoning a tract of land located at 1812 W. Noble Ave.
                     from R-1 to R- 2/PUD
3410     5-7-24      Rezoning land in the 1300 block of E. Triplett Rd. from C-
                     2 to I-1/PUD
3411     5-21-24     Rezoning a tract of land located at 1805 W. Mansur Ave.
                     from R-1 to R-2
                    
 
FEE SCHEDULE
   There is hereby established as the charge for certain services provided by
the city and the Public Works Authority and for the city the following fees.
 
ADULT RECREATION CENTER FEES
License application fee (non-     $25 each person named in the application
refundable)
Application for a permit (non-    $20
refundable)
Annual license fee                $50
Recreation center operator permit $10
annual fee
License and permit shall expire December 31 each year
 
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FEES (See also BEER GARDEN)
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FEES (See also BEER GARDEN)
Package store/liquor carry-out                                                         $600
   Definition: a retail alcoholic beverage store
Mixed beverage                                                                         $600
   Definition: includes taverns, saloons, and bars where intoxicating alcoholic
beverages are sold for on-site consumption and controlled by the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board
Winemaker                                                                              $625
   Definition: any person who produces wine.
State winemaker                                                                        $75
   Definition: a business premises in the state licensed pursuant to the state
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act wherein wine is produced by the licensee who must be a
resident of the state. The wine product fermented in said licensed premises shall be
of grapes, berries, and other fruits and vegetables imported into this state and
processed herein or shall be of grapes, berries, and other fruits and vegetables grown
in the state.
Private clubs
   Definition: any person, firm, corporation, or association that furnishes for the
use of its patrons any premises or place where such patrons may engage in the
consumption of alcoholic beverages either for a fee or for any other considerations,
including the sale of food, mixers, ice, or any other fluids for use or consumption
with alcoholic beverage or wherein the space for storage of alcoholic beverage is
furnished.
      Class A                                                                    $100
         Definition: private clubs maintained, supported, and controlled by nationally
recognized lodges, fraternal societies, or veterans’ organizations for their members
only.
      Class B                                                                    $600
         Definition: restaurants open to the general public but maintaining a private
room opening into the restaurant, which private room is used as a private club. No
food may be served in the private room nor dancing permitted in the private room or in
the adjacent restaurant.
      Class C                                                                    $600
         Definition: any other private clubs as defined other than Class A, B, or D.
      Class D                                                                    $1,200
         Definition: applicable only to hotel or motel having 60 or more guest rooms.
 
AMBULANCE RATES
Bill Name Cost
AMBULANCE RATES
Bill Name                                            Cost
ALS Emergency mileage                                $15.00
ALS Non-emergency mileage                            $15.00
ALS Supplies - Airway Management                     $94.00
ALS Supplies - Autopulse                             $472.10
ALS Supplies - Capnography                           $156.00
ALS Supplies - Defibrillation                        $210
ALS Supplies - EKG pads                              $36.75
ALS Supplies - External Pacing                       $210.00
ALS Supplies - Intubation                            $100.00
ALS Supplies - IO Infusion                           $262.25
ALS Supplies - IV therapy                            $258.00
ALS Supplies - Mast trousers                         $42.00
ALS Supplies - Needle Thoracostomy                   $31.50
ALS Supplies - NG Tube                               $88.00
ALS Supplies - Routine disposable                    $52.50
ALS Supplies - Surgical Airway                       $314.75
ALS1 Emergency base rate                             $855.00
ALS 1 Non-emergency base rate                        $855.00
ALS 2 Emergency base rate                            $900.00
ALS 2 Non-emergency base rate                        $900.00
Ambulance wait time (30 minutes)                     $31.47
BLS Emergency base rate                              $787.00
BLS Emergency mileage                                $15.00
BLS Non-emergency base rate                          $787.00
BLS Non-emergency mileage                            $787.00
BLS Supplies - Defibrillation (AED)                  $42.00
BLS Non-emergency mileage                            $15.00
BLS Supplies - Blood pressure cuff (disposable)      $50.00
BLS Supplies - King airway                           $201.00
BLS Supplies - Morgan lens                           $85.00
BLS Supplies - Rapid hemostatic dressing (QuickClot) $48.00
BLS Supplies - Routine disposable                    $52.50
BLS Supplies - Scoop stretcher                       $35.00
BLS Supplies - Stair chair                           $55.00
Blood glucose test                                   $45.64
CO monitoring                                        $94.00
Dispatch fee                                         $94.00
Disposable linen kit                                 $0.00
Drug - Activated charcoal 20cc PO                    $12.50
Drug - Adenosine 6mg                                 $66.62
Drug - Albuterol (.83%) 3ml                          $19.83
Drug - Albuterol/Ipratropium                         $36.00
Drug - Amiodaron HCL 150mg/3ml                       $335.71
Drug - Amiodaron 150mg                               $4.89
Drug - Aspirin Chewable 81mg                         $2.10
Drug - Atropine Sulfate 0.3mg                        $14.69
Drug - Calcium Chloride 10mg                         $14.29
Drug - Calcium Gluconate 10ml                        $28.89
Drug - Dextrose 25% (025)                            $29.50
Drug - Dextrose 50% (050)                            $29.50
Drug - Diazepam 5mg                                  $26.23
Drug - Diltiazem 5mg                                 $7.49
Drug - Diphenhydramine 50mg                          $9.44
Drug - Dopamine 400mg/250cc bag of D5W               $22.03
Drug - Epinephrine 1mg/10ml IV                       $9.32
Drug - Epinephrine 1mg/cc IM                         $4.34
Drug - Epinephrine Pen 1 dose                        $60.00
Drug - Etomidate 20mg/vial                           $33.57
Drug - Fentanyl 50mcg                                $4.29
Drug - Glucagon 1mg                                  $210.00
Drug - Hydromorphone 4mg                             $64.00
Drug - Ibuprofen for Children 4oz                    $2.25
Drug - Keterolac 15mg                                $48.00
Drug - Lidocaine 2% 100mg                            $26.23
Drug - Lidocaine Drip 1mg/25ml                       $52.50
Drug - Magnesium Sulfate per 500mg                   $22.03
Drug - Midazolam HCL 1mg                             $41.96
Drug - Morphine Sulfate per 500mg                    $58.75
Drug - Naloxone 1mg IV                               $12.65
Drug - Naloxone 2mg IV/IOP/IN                        $56.99
Drug - Neosynephrine Drops 15ml                      $7.05
Drug - Nitroglycerine Spray 0.4mg                    $6.99
Drug - Norcuron 10mg                                 $94.42
Drug - Ondansetron 1mg                               $55.00
Drug - Oral Glucose Gel                              $6.29
Drug - Rocuronium 1mg                                $20.49
Drug - Sodium Bicarbonate 50cc                       $7.74
Drug - Soccinylcholine 1mg                           $40.79
EKG interpretation                                   $260.00
Emergency rate                                       $94.00
ETCO2 Bulb Adult                                     $32.50
ETCO2 Bulb Pedi                                      $32.50
Extra attendant - 300+ lb patient                    $40.00
Extra attendant - CPR                                $147.00
Extra attendant - Heavy extrication                  $250.00
Extra attendant - Long stairs                        $40.00
EZ I-O Administration                                $375.00
EZ-IO IV Administration                              $262.25 ea
IV - 5% Dextrose/NS 500cc                            $42.00
IV - Blood draw procedure                            $21.00
IV - Collection tubes                                $18.75
IV - Normal saline 1,000cc                           $47.75
IV - Normal saline 100cc                             $39.60
IV - Normal saline 250cc                             $39.60
IV - Normal saline 500cc                             $41.90
Lidocaine HCI 2% 100mg                               $26.23 ea
Nasal capnography                                    $17.99
Nitroglycerine spray 0.4mg                           $6.99
Oxygen, administration, and supplies/hour            $119.00
Pulse oximeter                                       $94.50
QuikTrach surgical airway                            $300.00
Specialty care transport                             $1,662.96
Treatment/no-transport                               $175.00
 
ANIMAL LICENSE AND FEES
ANIMAL LICENSE AND FEES
Licensing fee
   Altered                     $3
   Unaltered                   $40
Impound fee (cat or dog)
   First offense               $25
   Second and subsequent offens$50
Impound other                     $40
Daily boarding                    $5
Additional fees
   Relinquishment of one animal$20
   Relinquishment of litter    $40
   Adoption fee                $55
Tranquilizer dart                 $15 each
Livestock transportation by city
   < 75 lbs.                   $15
   > 75 lbs.                   $25
Contract animal transportation    At cost
 
 
BEER GARDEN
Application fee               $150
Cleaning deposit (refundable) $100
   The duration of a beer garden permit shall not exceed three consecutive
calendar days or the period of the celebration.
 
 
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT FEES
Appeals                                              $50
Variances and special exception and conditional uses $250
 
GENERAL BUILDING PERMITS
GENERAL BUILDING PERMITS
Miscellaneous fees
   Minimum inspection fee                          $25
   Certificate of occupancy                        $25
   Swimming pools                                  $50
      (in ground or above ground) (commercial or
residential)
   Driveway                                        $50 includes inspection
   Parking lot                                     $50 includes inspection
   Sidewalk                                        $50 includes inspection
   Special or revocable permit                     $50
   Accessory/portable buildings             More than 250 square feet—
                                               same as new construction
   Underground storage tank                 $30
   Demolition                               $25
                                               (Additional stories add $10)
Administrative fee for                         $4.50
   construction related permits
Building permits
   Residential                              $.20 per square foot
   Commercial                               $.25 per square foot
      Includes:
         Three inspections: footing, framing, final
         25% review fee
         Certificate of occupancy
         State fees ($4.50)
   Carports/detached garages                $.20 per square foot
      Includes:
         Three inspections: footing, framing, final
         25% review fee
         Certificate of occupancy
         State fees ($4.50)
   Re-inspection                            $25
   2nd re-inspection                        $50
   Plan review                              25% of building permit
Electrical permits
   Residential                              $.15 per square foot
   Commercial                               $.20 per square foot
      Includes:
         Four inspections: temp pole, rough-in, final and service temp pole
         100 – 400 amps
         State fees ($4.50)
   Services:
      400 – 1,000 amps                 $100
      Above 1,000 amps                   $200
   Minimum electric permit fee includes one $50
inspection
   Re-inspection                            $25
   2nd re-inspection                        $50
   Change service                           $25 per 100 amp increase or part
                                               thereof
Mechanical inspection fees
   Residential                              $.08 per square foot
   Commercial                               $.10 per square foot
      Includes:
         Two inspections: rough-in, final
         State fees ($4.50)
   Split system unit                        $50 each
   Commercial exhaust hood                  $50
   Minimum mechanical permit fee            $25
Plumbing permits
   Residential                              $.15 per square foot
   Commercial                               $.20 per square foot
      Includes:
         Four inspections: groundwork, top-out-sewer/water lines, final
         State fees ($4.50)
         Trapped fixtures: 2 tubs/showers, 6 sinks, 2 toilets, 1 hot water tank
   Swimming pools                           $50
   Minimum plumbing permit fee              $25
Water well inspection fee:
   Water well permit                        $25
   Pre-drilling inspection                  $25
   Plumbing inspection                      $25
   Electrical inspection                    $25
   The permit fee will double if any person, firm, or corporation begins to
construct, alter, move, or demolish a building or structure without securing a
permit on the same from the Building Official.
 
SUMMIT VIEW CEMETERY FEES
SUMMIT VIEW CEMETERY FEES
BURIAL SPACES
   Space in Section I and Section II of Summit View Cemetery
      Resident                                                  $500
      Non-resident                                              $600
      Infant spaces (casket size under 52 inches)               $250
      Non-resident infant (casket size under 52 inches)         $350
GRAVE OPENINGS
   Adult opening/closing
      Weekdays                                                  $600
      Saturday—morning                                        $800
      Saturday—afternoon                                      $1,000
   Infant opening/closing
      Weekdays                                                  $350
      Saturday—morning                                        $550
      Saturday—afternoon                                      $650
   Cremation
      Weekdays                                                  $300
      Saturday—morning                                        $500
      Saturday—afternoon                                      $700
   All city employees with ten or more years of full time service, as an
employment benefit, will receive one free burial space at Summit View
Cemetery.
DISINTERMENT
   Weekdays only at the sexton’s discretion
      Moving outside Summit View Cemetery                       $800
      Moving from one location to another within Summit View Cem$1,200
MARKER/MONUMENT SETTING
   Six-inch concrete base required on each marker/monument
      Marker/monument setting fee                               $30
OWNERSHIP CERTIFICATE
   Duplicate copy of cemetery ownership                            $10
   Transfer of cemetery ownership                                  $20
 
CONTRACTORS LICENSE
CONTRACTORS LICENSE
Expiration date August 30 of each year
Electrical contractor: New            $200
                       Renew          $100
Electrical journeyman  New            $35
                       Renew          $35
Plumbing contractor    New            $200
                       Renew          $100
Plumbing journeyman    New            $35
                       Renew          $35
Mechanical contractor  New            $200
                       Renew          $100
Mechanical journeyman  New            $35
                       Renew          $35
Water well contractor  New            $100
                       Renew          $100
                       Inspection fee $10 per well
 
 
CONVENIENCE CENTER FEES
Roofing materials/shingles                                $15 per cubic yard
For customers having a current utility bill with the city $10 per cubic yard
(bill has to be presented)
For customers not having a current utility bill with the  $12.50 per cubic yard
city
 
 
COPY AND SEARCH FEES
Copies (8-1/2 × 14 or smaller)$.25 per page
Certified copies               $1 per page
   Search fees, when assessed, shall be computed based on the total hourly
rate of compensation of each employee involved with the search, rounded to the
nearest 15 minute interval of time actually involved in the search. Persons,
firms, or entities failing to pay legally assessed search fees or falsely
claiming exemption shall be guilty of filing a fraudulent claim against the
city and may be subject to legal prosecution.
Duplication of videos          $100 per tape
   If more than five tapes are requested, the city shall contact an outside
vendor to perform requested duplications, the cost of which will be paid by
the individual requesting the tape.
   Production fee shall be negotiated by the City Manager and a fair value
assessed to the user desiring the production.
 
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
ALS 1 Non-emergency         $1,600
ALS Emergency               $2,300
BLS Non-emergency           $1,350
BLS Emergency               $2,000
ALS 2                       $2,400
Specialty Care Transport    $1,900
DOA Transport               $1,000
Treatment No Transport Fee  $400
Mileage 25+                 $20
Mileage 1-24                $20
Ambulance Standby (hourly)  $150
Lift Assist                 $100
ALS Supplies                $100
BLS Supplies                $60
IV Supplies                 $50
Oxygen Supplies             $50
Dispatch Fee                $95
Annual EMS Subscription Fee $100
 
 
FAMILY RECREATION CENTER FEES
License application fee (non-refundable)     $25 each person
                                             named in the application
Application for a permit (non-refundable)    $20
Annual license fee                           $50
Recreation center operator permit annual fee $10
License and permit shall expire December 31 each year
 
 
FINGER PRINTING
Per card $2.50
Per set  $5
 
 
FIRE PERMIT FEES
Annual rural fire subscription      $100 per year
Commercial/agricultural burn permit $25
Residential burn permit             $10
 
FIRE RUNS
FIRE RUNS
Outside city limits
   Fire engines, rescues, special operations units, adders, grass/bush trucks, $300 per
tankers, and boats                                                                unit, per
                                                                                  hour
                                                                                  $150 per
   Command unit                                                                unit, per
                                                                                  hour
                                                                                  $10 per unit
                                                                                  (unit being
                                                                                  any part of
                                                                                  a gallon)
                                                                                  (this also
   Disposal of hazardous waste                                                 applies to
                                                                                  residents
                                                                                  within the
                                                                                  city limits
                                                                                  of Guthrie
                                                                                  and fire
                                                                                  subscribers)
                                                                                  $20 per unit
                                                                                  (unit being
                                                                                  any part of
                                                                                  a gallon)
                                                                                  (this also
   Foam (used on-scene)                                                        applies to
                                                                                  residents
                                                                                  within the
                                                                                  city limits
                                                                                  of Guthrie
                                                                                  and fire
                                                                                  subscribers)
   Incidents involving straight time                                           $15 per man-
                                                                                  hour
   Incidents involving overtime                                                $30 per man-
                                                                                  hour
(Man-hours are one hour minimum. Any partial hours are billed as a whole hour.)
 
FIRE SERVICE FEES
FIRE SERVICE FEES
Level 1 MVC - Assess/Stabilization               $506
Level 2 MVC - Level 1 + spill clean-up           $576
Level 3 MVC - Level 1 + car fire                 $704
Level 4 MVC - Level 1 + extrication              $1,520
Level 1 - Basic Haz Mat                          $816
Rural Fires (Engine/Brush/Tanker)                $466/ per hour, per unit
Rural Fires (Command)                            $291/ per hour, per unit
Special Rescue Incidents - Water/Dive/Technical  $466/ per hour, per unit
(Rescue/Boat)
Special Rescue Incidents - Water/Dive/Technical  $291/ per hour, per unit
(Command)
All fees and rates shall have an automatic annual 1.5% increase, or other
percentage based on the annual percentage increase in the Consumer Price
Index (CPI), as developed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S.
Department of Labor, whichever is more.
 
 
FIREWORKS PERMIT
Fireworks permit $15
 
GARAGE SALE
GARAGE SALE
RESIDENTIAL GARAGE
SALE
   Garage sale perm$5
   Permit is issued for no more than three consecutive days. No more than two
permits issued in any three-month period per location. The permit is in the
form of a sign and must be displayed on the property of the residence where
the residential garage sale is being conducted.
   Garage sale sign$5 per sign
   Only signs provided by the city are allowed. Two signs shall be permitted
to be displayed on city's right-of-way, but the sign must be posted so it does
not block the view of traffic.
NEIGHBORHOOD GARAGE SALE
   Garage sale perm$30
   Permit is issued for no more than three consecutive days. No more than one
permit shall be issued in any 12-month period per location. The permit is in
the form of a sign and must be displayed on the property of the residence
where the neighborhood garage sale is being conducted.
   Garage sale sign$5 per sign
   Only signs provided by the city are allowed. Two signs shall be permitted
to be displayed on city's right-of-way, but the sign must be posted so it does
not block the view of traffic.
 
HIGHLAND HALL RATES
HIGHLAND HALL RATES
8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.                $65
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.                 $85
8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.                $110
1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.                 $65
6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.                $65
1:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.                $95
Cleaning/key deposit (refundable)      $100
   (The cleaning/key deposit is refundable subject to satisfactory inspection by
authorized city personnel and the return of the key.)
   A special rate is hereby established for frequent renters of Highland Hall
when the Hall is rented by the same person or organization, twice a week for a
period of not less than eight weeks. Rental charges shall be as follows:
   One-half day—8:00 a.m. to 1:00 $18.75
   One-half day—1:00 p.m. to 5:00 $18.75
   Evening—5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.$18.75
   Full day—8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.$33.75
   Inspection fee (non-refundable)  $10
   Cleaning/key deposit (refundable)$50
 
GUTHRIE HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION FEES
GUTHRIE HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION FEES
Type of application: Certificate of appropriateness                    Application
                                                                       fee
   Permanent sign                                                   $25
   Paint*                                                           $25
   Awning                                                           $25
   Façade change - Minor*                                          $25
   Façade change - Major*                                          $50
   New construction                                                 $50
   Demolition                                                       $250
      If the resource for which the application is being submitted is determined
by the Historic Preservation Commission to detract from the district, a $50 refund
will be given to the applicant.
   Certificate of economic hardship                                 $50
   Certificate of unusual and compelling circumstances              $50
   Designation of landmarks or landmark sites                       $50
   Amendment or rescission of landmark or landmark site designation $50
   Designation of historic district                                 $10 per
                                                                       property
      20 or fewer properties                                     $200
                                                                       minimum
      75 or more properties                                      $750
                                                                       maximum
   Amendment or rescission of historic district designation (all or $10 per
part)                                                                  property
      20 or fewer properties                                     $200
                                                                       minimum
      75 or more properties                                      $750
                                                                       maximum
   Notice of appeal to City Council                                 $50
*   Applications to apply or remove paint may be approved by staff as an
administrative approval. Such applications may be submitted at any time for staff
review.
*   Minor facade changes are new doors/windows, paint color changes to trim.
*   Major facade changes are all structural changes that would change the
appearance of the building element.
 
HANGAR STRUCTURE PERMIT FEES/GUTHRIE-EDMOND REGIONAL AIRPORT
HANGAR STRUCTURE PERMIT FEES/GUTHRIE-EDMOND REGIONAL AIRPORT
Aviation building permits
   Hangar building                        $.15 per square foot
      Includes:
         Three inspections: footing, framing, and final
         25% review fee
         Certificate of occupancy
         State and city fees ($4.50)
Electrical permits
   Hangar building                        $.15 per square foot
      Includes:
         Four inspections: temp pole, rough-in, final, service
         Temp pole (100–400 amps)
         State and city fees ($4.50)
      Services:                        $100
      400–1,000 amps                 $200
      Above 1,000 amps
      Minimum electrical permit        $50
Plumbing permits
   Hangar building                        $.20 per square foot of area
                                             supplied
      Includes:
         Four inspections: groundwork, top-out-sewer/water lines, final
         Trapped fixtures
         State and city fees ($4.50)
Mechanical permits
   Hangar building                        $.10 per square foot of area
                                             supplied
      Includes:
         Two inspections: rough-in, final
         State and city fees ($4.50)
   Split system unit                      $50 each
 
 
HOUSEMOVERS FEE
Housemover permit, one-story $25
Housemover permit, two-story $50
Bond                         $5,000
 
 
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) CAMPING FEES
Fee for electricity & water hookup in Cottonwood Flats $20 per RV per night*
*Fee may be waived for events with (a) contract(s) for use of Cottonwood Flats
 
LAKE FEES
LAKE FEES
Camping:
   Non-electric campsites                            $14/night*
   Electric campsites                                $17/night*
   Electric and water campsites                      $20/night*
   *Includes day use for up to 6 campers which is the maximum number of
campers allowed per site.
Boating:
   Each watercraft (includes 1 day use permit)       $7/day
   (Kayaks and canoes do not require a boating permit)
Day use:
   Each person 16 years of age and older             $3/day
Annual passes:
   Day use for both lakes                            $45/person 16 years of
                                                        age or older
   Boating for both lakes (includes 1 annual day use $75/watercraft
permit)
 
GUTHRIE PUBLIC LIBRARY FEES
GUTHRIE PUBLIC LIBRARY FEES
Library cards
   Patrons will receive their first card free of charge.
   A fee of $1 will be charged for replacing lost or stolen library cards.
   An annual fee of $30 will be charged for non-resident cards.
Fines for overdue library materials per day
                                                                      $.10 per item
   Books, audiotapes (CD or Playaway), music CDs, multimedia kits, with a
periodicals, encyclopedias                                            maximum
                                                                      charge of $5
                                                                      $.50 per item
   Video media                                                     per day with
                                                                      a maximum
                                                                      charge of $10
Lost or damaged materials:
   The fee paid for the replacement of lost items is non-refundable even if the
item is found and returned at a later date. Partial payment of accumulated fines
and bills will be accepted.
                                                                        $5 plus
Materials that are still available for replacement                      replacement
                                                                        cost
                                                                        $5 plus the
                                                                        retail
Materials that are no longer available for replacement                  price at
                                                                        the time of
                                                                        purchase
DVD cases                                                               $1.50
DVD covers                                                              $3.00
Copies and prints, per page
   Photocopies, single-sided, letter and legal size                  $.10
   Photocopies, double-sided, letter and legal size                  $.15
   Photocopies, single-sided ledger (11 × 17)                       $.20
   Photocopies, double-sided ledger (11 × 17)                       $.30
   Computer prints                                                   $.10
   Color copies or prints                                            add $.40 to
                                                                        above fees
         Photocopies and computer prints, customer provides papdiscount of
   (Staff must inspect/approve paper and assist with copies)         $.05
Fax
   Sending                                                           $1 per page
   Receiving                                                         $1 per page
   Long distance faxes                                               $1.25 per
                                                                        page
Meeting Room
   No fees are charged to library, library-related groups or other city
departmental groups at any time.
   No fees are charged to non-profit civic, professional, and educational
organizations during library operating hours unless food and/or beverages are
served. If refreshments are served, the group is assessed a $10 fee.
   For-profit groups may rent the room during library hours for $10 per hour. If
applicable, the refreshment fee is added.
   Meetings must be scheduled to take place during library hours. Special
arrangements for meetings outside library hours may be arranged. An additional fee
of $15 per hour or any part of any hour will be added should meetings begin prior
to or extend beyond regular operating hours. A ten- minute warning will be given by
library staff prior to closing.
GPC resource center
   Users will be charged the cost of expendable materials used.
   Use of the equipment and facility is free.
Other
   Interlibrary loan                                               Actual
                                                                      postage cost
   Notary services                                                 Free
 
 
MINERAL WELLS PARK PAVILION RENTAL FEES
Up to 6 hours                 $50
6 hours and over              $90
Cleaning/deposit (refundable) $100
Fee must be paid in full 24 hours prior to date of reservation.
Cancellations may be made two weeks prior to date of reservation.
The cleaning deposit is refundable subject to satisfactory inspection by
authorized city personnel)
 
 
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR
Annual permit $75
   Anyone who owns a brick & mortar restaurant or retail shop within Guthrie
city limits is exempt from annual fees
 
 
MUNICIPAL COURT FEES/FINES
Editor’s note:
   Please refer to §
12-34 Fines and Costs for Municipal Court fees/fines.
 
 
OIL AND GAS DRILLING FEES
Application and filing fee $1,000
Permit fee                 $10,000
Annual inspection fee      $250
Bond                       $100,000
 
PLANNING COMMISSION FEES
PLANNING COMMISSION FEES
Rezoning                     $250
Plan review                  $50
Subdivision preliminary plat $250 plus $1 per lot
Each amendment               $100
Final plat                   $100 for all or any portion
PUD                          $300, plus $5 per acre, maximum $500
Lot split                    $50
Special use permit           $150
 
 
SIGN FEES
Window     $50 plus state fee
All others $50 plus state fee
The amount is double if the sign is erected without a permit.
 
 
SOLICITORS FEES/PERMIT
Filing the application $15
                       $10 plus $2 per day for each day the applicant will be
License fee            operating within the city, up to the maximum of 15
                       consecutive days
 
SWIMMING POOL FEES
SWIMMING POOL FEES
Daily fee
   Children (17 and under)                        $2
   Adults (18 through 64)                         $2
   Senior citizens (65 and over)                  $2
After normal pool hours from 7:00 p.m. through 11:00
p.m.
   Groups (organizations—private groups) 25 or l$50 + cost of lifeguard(s)
   Groups (organizations—private groups) 26 or m$70 + cost of lifeguard(s)
Season passes
   Individual pass C all ages                     $50
   Family pass (three or more)                    $150
 
 
SPECIAL EVENTS
Special event permit $55
fee
   The annual special event permit shall be valid for a period of one
calendar year, and shall authorize the holder to hold up to four events over
a period of one year, not to exceed two such events in any three-month
period. (Refer to §§
2-100 through
2-106)
 
 
TARGET SHOOTING
Site inspection $10
Annual permit   $25
Weekly permit   $10
   Liability insurance in an amount of not less than $500,00 per person and
$1,000,000 per occurrence
 
 
TAXICAB LICENSE FEES
Public transportation business license $50 plus state fee
 
(Am. Res. 00-02, passed 4-18-00; Am. Res. 00-03, passed 4-18-00; Am. Res. 00-
11, passed 9-5-00; Am. Res. 02-08, passed 2-19-02; Am. Res. 02-14, passed 5-7-
02; Am. Ord. 02-16, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord. 3105, passed 8-6-02; Am. Res. 02-
31, passed 10-1-02; Am. Res. 02-35, passed 12-17-02; Am. Res. 2003-03, passed
6-3-03; Am. Ord. 3129, passed 3-16-04; Am. Res. 04-14, passed 8-17-04; Am. Res.
04-15, passed 8-17-04; Am. Res. 05-23, passed 9-20-05; Am. Res. 05-24, passed
9-20-05; Am. Res. 05-25, passed 9-20-05; Am. Res. 05-26, passed 9-20-05; Am.
Res. 05-27, passed 9-20-05; Am. Res. 06-05, passed 4-11-06; Am. Res. 2006-17,
passed 9-19-06; Am. Res. 2006-18, passed 9-19-06; Am. Res. 2006-19, passed 9-
19-06; Am. Res. 11-7-06; Am. Res. 2007-02, passed 4-17-07; Am. Res. 2007-07,
passed 7-10-07; Am. Res. 2008-06, passed 4-30-08; Am. Res. 2008-07, passed 5-6-
08; Am. Res. 2008-08, passed 5-20-08; Am. Res. 2008-17, passed 9-2-08; Am. Res.
2008-24, passed 12-16-08; Am. Res. 2009-04, passed 3-17-09; Am. Res. 2009-06,
passed 4-19-09; Am. Res. 2009-13, passed 7-21-09; Am. Res 2009-20, passed 11-3-
09; Am. Res. 2010-01, passed 4-6-10; Am. Res. 2010-03, passed 5-18-10; Am. Res.
2010-11, passed 7-20-10; Am. Res. 2011-09, passed 6-7-11; Am. Ord. 3224, passed
6-7-11; Am. Res. 2012-06, passed 5-1-12; Am. Res. 2012-13, passed 9-18-12; Am.
Res. 2012-15, passed 10-2-12; Am. Res. 2013-19, passed 9-3-13; Am. Res. 2014-
02, passed 3-4-14; Am. Res. 2014-19, passed 9-16-14; Am. Res. 2015-04, passed
3-3-15; Am. Res. 2015-11, passed 7-21-15; Am. Res. 2015-12, passed 7-21-15; Am.
Ord. 3288, passed 5-3-16; Am. Res. 2016-10, passed 6-7-16; Am. Res. 2016-11,
passed 6-7-16; Am. Res. 2016-21, passed 11-1-16; Am. Res. 2017-06, passed 3-7-
17; Am. Res. 2017-07, passed 3-7-17; Am. Res. 2021-31, passed 11-2-21; Am. Res.
2022-07, passed 2-1-22; Am. Res. 2022-08, passed 2-1-22; Am. Res. 2023-37,
passed 10-3-23)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to 1990 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Section Code Section
O.S. Section               Code Section
Const. Art. X, § 9C
3A O.S. § 3-428           14-23
3A O.S. §§ 5-201 et seq. 14-23
3A O.S. §§ 5-206 et seq. 14-23
7 O.S. § 11               20-235
10 O.S. § 7003-2.1        14-86
                           13-24,
                           13-33,
11 O.S. § 1-102           13-42,
                           13-54,
                           13-65, 13-83
11 O.S. § 10-105          1-3
                           Charter §§
                           3-1,
11 O.S. § 10-113          3-4,
                           3-6;
                           1-20
11 O.S. § 10-115          1-5
11 O.S. § 10-117          1-6
11 O.S. § 14-101          16-1
11 O.S. § 14-108          Ch. 10
11 O.S. § 14-109          Ch. 10
11 O.S. § 14-111          Ch. 10
11 O.S. §§ 15-101 et seq.10-50
11 O.S. § 17-102          7-153
11 O.S. § 17-110          7-67
11 O.S. § 22-110          8-20
11 O.S. § 22-111          13-24,
                           13-33
11 O.S. § 27-101          12-1
11 O.S. § 27-102          12-1
11 O.S. § 27-103          12-3
11 O.S. § 27-108          12-15
11 O.S. § 27-109          12-14
11 O.S. § 27-111          12-16
11 O.S. § 27-114          12-17
11 O.S. § 27-119          Ch. 10
11 O.S. § 27-122.2        12-30
11 O.S. § 27-123          12-33
11 O.S. § 27-124          12-33
11 O.S. § 27-125          12-18
11 O.S. § 27-1161         12-24
11 O.S. § 34-101          1-200
11 O.S. § 34-101(B)       1-200
11 O.S. § 34-104          17-2
11 O.S. §§ 41-47         4-245
11 O.S. § 49-122          1-72
11 O.S. § 49-122(B)       1-72
18 O.S.                    17-2
19 O.S. §§ 866.1 - 866.3516-1
21 O.S. § 28              14-3
21 O.S. § 1541.1          14-18
25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq.   1-176,
                           4-309
34 O.S. § 3               10-42
37 O.S. § 163.1           2-2
37 O.S. §§ 163.1 et seq. 2-35,
                           14-23
                           2-1,
37 O.S. §§ 501 - 599     2-17,
                           2-21
37 O.S. § 506             2-35,
                           14-23
37 O.S. § 537B            11-101
41 O.S. §§ 101 et seq.   7-92
47 O.S.                    12-34,
                           20-501
47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq. 20-1
47 O.S. § 1-105           20-182
47 O.S. § 1-125           20-1
47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.20-26
47 O.S. § 10-108          20-26
47 O.S. § 11-104          20-19
47 O.S. § 11-106          20-24
47 O.S. §§ 11-201 et seq.20-60
47 O.S. § 11-202          20-64
47 O.S. § 11-203          20-65
47 O.S. § 11-204          20-66
47 O.S. § 11-206          20-68
47 O.S. § 11-207          20-69
47 O.S. § 11-301          20-85
47 O.S. §§ 11-301 et seq.20-85
47 O.S. § 11-302          20-86
47 O.S. § 11-303          20-87
47 O.S. § 11-304          20-88,
                           20-140
47 O.S. § 11-305          20-89
47 O.S. § 11-306          20-89
47 O.S. § 11-307          20-90
47 O.S. § 11-308(a)       20-155
47 O.S. § 11-308(b)       20-156
47 O.S. § 11-308(c)       20-157
47 O.S. § 11-309          20-91
47 O.S. § 11-310(a)       20-92
47 O.S. § 11-312          20-208
47 O.S. § 11-401          20-170
47 O.S. § 11-402          20-171
47 O.S. § 11-403(a)       20-176
47 O.S. § 11-403(b)       20-177
47 O.S. § 11-403(d)       20-178
47 O.S. § 11-405          20-25
47 O.S. § 11-501          20-225
47 O.S. § 11-502          20-226
47 O.S. § 11-503          20-229
47 O.S. § 11-503(c)       20-230
47 O.S. § 11-504          20-234
47 O.S. § 11-506          20-232
47 O.S. § 11-507          20-227,
                           20-233
47 O.S. § 11-601          20-135,
                           20-136
47 O.S. § 11-603          20-201
47 O.S. § 11-604          20-140
47 O.S. § 11-605          20-141
47 O.S. § 11-606          20-141
47 O.S. § 11-701          20-181
47 O.S. § 11-702          20-182
47 O.S. § 11-705          20-93
47 O.S. § 11-705.1        20-93
47 O.S. § 11-901          20-115
47 O.S. § 11-1004         20-285
47 O.S. § 11-1104         20-206
47 O.S. § 11-1105         20-204
47 O.S. § 11-1108(a)      20-195
47 O.S. § 11-1109         20-196
47 O.S. § 11-1204         20-207
47 O.S. § 11-1201         20-250
47 O.S. § 11-1202         20-251
47 O.S. § 11-1203         20-253
47 O.S. § 11-1205         20-254
47 O.S. § 11-1206         20-257
47 O.S. § 11-1207         20-260
47 O.S. § 11-1301         20-210
47 O.S. §§ 12-201 et seq.20-43
47 O.S. §§ 12-201 - 12-2020-272
47 O.S. § 12-204          20-272
47 O.S. § 12-205          20-272
47 O.S. § 12-206          20-272
47 O.S. § 12-219          20-272
47 O.S. § 12-224          20-272
47 O.S. § 12-401          20-272
47 O.S. § 12-417          20-43
47 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.20-45
47 O.S. § 14-105          20-46
47 O.S. § 40-103          20-270
47 O.S. § 40-104          20-271
47 O.S. § 40-105          20-272
47 O.S. §§ 751 et seq.   20-118
47 O.S. § 752             20-118
47 O.S. § 759             20-118
47 O.S. § 1102            20-43
47 O.S. § 1134            20-43
50 O.S. § 12              13-6
50 O.S. § 14              13-7
50 O.S. § 15              13-7
50 O.S. § 16              13-5,
                           13-8
50 O.S. § 17              13-9
51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq. 1-171
52 O.S. §§ 420.1 et seq. 4-70
59 O.S. §§ 1501 et seq.  5-75
59 O.S. § 1510            5-75
59 O.S. § 1511            5-75,
                           5-77
59 O.S. §§ 1680 et seq.  4-96
60 O.S. § 1354.1          7-18,
                           7-49
60 O.S. § 1354.2          7-18,
                           7-49
60 O.S. § 1354.3          7-18,
                           7-49
61 O.S. § 61              7-152
61 O.S. § 62              7-152
61 O.S. § 101-138         7-152
61 O.S. § 102             7-152
62 O.S. § 310.1           7-153
63 O.S. §§ 1-202 et seq. 1-30
63 O.S. §§ 1-1101 et seq.5-126
63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq. 14-24
63 O.S. §§ 2-102 et seq. 14-24
68 O.S. § 201 et seq.     7-113
                           7-32,
68 O.S. § 205             7-62,
                           7-108,
                           7-136
68 O.S. §§ 205.2 et seq. 12-34
                           7-27,
68 O.S. § 217             7-58,
                           7-132
                           7-28,
68 O.S. § 220             7-59,
                           7-133
                           7-29,
68 O.S. § 227             7-60,
                           7-134
68 O.S. § 301             14-120
68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.  7-93
68 O.S. § 1352            7-26,
                           7-57
68 O.S. § 1352.1          7-26,
                           7-57
68 O.S. § 1354            7-18,
                           7-49
68 O.S. §§ 1355 - 1360   7-19,
                           7-50
68 O.S. § 1357            7-18,
                           7-49
68 O.S. §§ 1357 et seq.  7-18,
                           7-49
68 O.S. § 1358            7-31
68 O.S. § 1401            7-137
68 O.S. § 1408            7-130
68 O.S. §§ 2601 - 2605   7-75
69 O.S. §§ 4021 - 4026   19-135
70 O.S. § 10-105          14-130
70 O.S. § 3311            1-200
75 O.S. §§ 309 - 317     12-10
82 O.S. §§ 1601 - 1618   4-248
 
REFERENCES TO 1990 CODE
1990 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1990 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1-1               1-1
1-3               1-3
1-4               1-4
1-5               1-5
1-6               1-6
1-7               1-7
1-8               1-8
1-17              1-20
1-18              1-30
1-19              1-40
1-20              1-41
1-21              1-42
1-22              1-43
1-23              1-44
1-24              1-45
1-25              1-46
1-26              1-47
1-27              1-48
1-30              1-71
1-31              1-72
1-32              1-85
1-33              1-86
1-34              1-87
1-35              1-88
1-36              1-89
1-37              1-90
1-38              1-91
1-39              1-92
1-40              1-93
1-41              1-94
1-42              1-95
1-43              1-96
1-44              1-97
1-45              1-98
1-46              1-99
1-47              1-100
1-48              1-101
1-49              1-102
1-50              1-103
1-51              1-104
1-52              1-105
1-53              1-106
1-54              1-120
1-55              1-121
1-56              1-122
1-57              1-123
1-58              1-124
1-59              1-125
1-60              1-126
1-61              1-140
1-62              1-141
1-63              1-142
1-64              1-143
1-65              1-144
1-72              1-155
1-73              1-156
1-74              1-157
1-75              1-170
1-76              1-171
1-77              1-172
1-78              1-173
1-79              1-174
1-80              1-175
1-81              1-176
1-82              1-177
1-83              1-178
1-85              1-190
2-1               2-1
2-2               2-2
2-3               2-3
2-4               2-4
2-5               2-5
2-6               2-6
2-7               2-7
2-8               2-8
2-9               2-9
2-10              2-10
2-11              2-11
2-12              2-12
2-13              2-13
2-14              2-14
2-15              2-15
2-16              2-16
2-17              2-17
2-18              2-18
2-19              2-19
2-20              2-20
2-21              2-21
2-22              2-22
2-23              2-170
2-24              2-35
2-26              2-36
2-27              2-37
2-31              2-41
2-32              2-42
2-33              2-43
2-34              2-44
2-35              2-45
2-36              2-46
2-37              2-47
2-38              2-48
4-1               4-1
4-2               4-2
4-3               4-3
4-4               4-4
4-5               4-5
4-6               4-6
4-6.1             4-7
4-7               4-8
4-7.1             4-9
4-8               4-10
4-9               4-20
4-10              4-21
4-11              4-22
4-11.1            4-23
4-12              4-35
4-13              4-36
4-14              4-37
4-15              4-38
4-16              4-39
4-17              4-40
4-18              4-41
4-19              4-42
4-20              4-43
4-21              4-44
4-22              4-55
4-23.1            4-56
4-24              4-70
4-25              4-71
4-25.1            4-72
4-26              4-85
4-27              4-86
4-28              4-87
4-29              4-88
4-30              4-89
4-31              4-90
4-32              4-91
4-33              4-92
4-34              4-93
4-35              4-94
4-36              4-95
4-37              4-96
4-38              4-97
4-39              4-98
4-40              4-99
4-40.1            4-100
4-41              4-101
4-42              4-102
4-43              4-115
4-44              4-116
4-45              4-117
4-46              4-118
4-47              4-119
4-48              4-120
4-49              4-121
4-50              4-122
4-51              4-123
4-52              4-124
4-53              4-125
4-54              4-126
4-55              4-127
4-56              4-128
4-57              4-129
4-58              4-130
4-59              4-131
4-60              4-132
4-61              4-133
4-62              4-134
4-63              4-135
4-64              4-136
4-65              4-137
4-65.1            4-150
4-65.2            4-151
4-69              4-180
4-70              4-190
4-71              4-191
4-71              4-196
4-72              4-192
4-73              4-193
4-74              4-194
4-74.1            4-195
4-165             4-325
4-166             4-326
4-167             4-327
4-168             4-328
4-169             4-328
4-170             4-329
4-171             4-330
4-172             4-331
4-172             4-345
4-173             4-355
4-173.1           4-356
4-174             4-370
4-175             4-371
4-176             4-372
4-177             4-373
4-178             4-374
4-179             4-375
4-180             4-376
4-186             4-390
5-1               5-1
5-2               5-2
5-3               5-3
5-4               5-4
5-14              5-15
5-15              5-16
5-16              5-17
5-17              5-30
5-18              5-30
5-19              5-31
5-20              5-45
5-21              5-46
5-22              5-60
5-23              5-61
5-24              5-62
5-25              5-75
5-26              5-77
5-28              5-90
5-29              5-91
5-30              5-92
5-31              5-93
5-32              5-105
5-50              5-145
6-1               6-1
6-2               6-2
6-3               6-3
7-1               7-1
7-2               7-15
7-3               7-16
7-5               7-17
7-6               7-18
7-7               7-19
7-8               7-19
7-9               7-19
7-10              7-20
7-11              7-21
7-12              7-22
7-13              7-23
7-14              7-24
7-15              7-25
7-16              7-26
7-17              7-26
7-18              7-27
7-19              7-28
7-20              7-29
7-21              7-30
7-22              7-31
7-23              7-32
7-25              7-33
7-27              7-45
7-28              7-46
7-29              7-47
7-30              7-48
7-31              7-49
7-32              7-50
7-33              7-50
7-34              7-51
7-35              7-52
7-36              7-53
7-37              7-54
7-38              7-55
7-39              7-56
7-40              7-57
7-41              7-57
7-42              7-58
7-43              7-59
7-44              7-60
7-45              7-61
7-46              7-62
7-48              7-63
7-52              7-75
7-53              7-76
7-54              7-77
7-55              7-78
7-56              7-79
7-100             7-125
7-102             7-126
7-103             7-127
7-104             7-128
7-105             7-129
7-106             7-129
7-107             7-130
7-108             7-131
7-109             7-132
7-110             7-133
7-111             7-134
7-112             7-135
7-113             7-136
7-116             7-137
7-117             7-137
7-118             7-138
7-119             7-139
7-120             7-140
8-1               8-1
8-7               8-2
8-9               8-20
8-10              8-21
8-11              8-22
8-12              8-23
8-13              8-35
8-14              8-36
8-15              8-50
8-16              8-51
8-17              8-52
8-18              8-53
8-19              8-54
8-20              8-55
8-21              8-56
8-22              8-57
8-23              8-58
8-24              8-59
8-25              8-60
8-26              8-61
8-27              8-62
8-28              8-63
8-29              8-64
8-30              8-65
8-31              8-66
8-32              8-67
8-33              8-68
8-34              8-80
8-35              8-90
9-1               9-1
9-2               9-2
9-3               9-3
9-4               9-4
9-5               9-5
9-6               9-6
9-7               9-7
9-8               9-8
9-9               9-8
9-10              9-9
9-11              9-20
11-1              11-1
11-2              11-2
11-3              11-3
11-4              11-4
11-5              11-5
11-16             11-40
11-17             11-41
11-18             11-42
11-19             11-43
11-20             11-43
11-21             11-43
11-22             11-44
11-23             11-43
11-24             11-45
11-25             11-46
11-26             11-47
11-27             11-48
11-28             11-49
11-29             11-50
11-30             11-51
11-31             11-65
11-32             11-66
11-33             11-106
11-40             11-95
11-41             11-106
12-1              12-1
12-2              12-2
12-3              12-3
12-4              12-4
12-5              12-5
12-6              12-6
12-7              12-7
12-8              12-8
12-9              12-9
12-10             12-10
12-11             12-11
12-12             12-12
12-13             12-13
12-14             12-14
12-15             12-15
12-16             12-16
12-17             12-17
12-18             12-18
12-19             12-19
12-20             12-20
12-21             12-21
12-22             12-22
12-23             12-23
12-24             12-24
12-25             12-25
12-26             12-26
12-27             12-27
12-28             12-28
12-29             12-29
12-30             12-30
12-31             12-31
12-32             12-32
12-33             12-33
12-34             12-34
14-1              14-1
14-2              14-2
14-3              14-3
14-8              14-1
14-9              14-1
14-10             14-1
14-11             14-18
14-12             14-19
14-13             14-19
14-14             14-19
14-15             14-19
14-16             14-20
14-17             14-20
14-19             14-20
14-20             14-20
14-21             14-20
14-24             14-21
14-25             14-22
14-33             14-23
14-34             14-23
14-36             14-23
14-37             14-23
14-37.1           14-23
14-38             14-24
14-39             14-24
14-41             14-25
14-41.1           14-25
14-42             14-25
14-43             14-25
14-44             14-25
14-47             14-40
14-48             14-41
14-49             14-42
14-50             14-43
14-51             14-44
14-52             14-45
14-53             14-46
14-53.1           14-47
14-53.2           14-47
14-54             14-48
14-55             14-49
14-56             14-50
14-56.1           14-51
14-57             14-51
14-58             14-52
14-58.A           14-53
14-58.1           14-54
14-59             14-55
14-60             14-56
14-61             14-57
14-62             14-58
14-63             14-59
14-64             14-70
14-65             14-71
14-66             14-72
14-67             14-73
14-68             14-74
14-71             14-85
14-72             14-86
14-75             14-150
14-80             14-100
14-81             14-101
14-82             14-102
14-83             14-103
14-84             14-104
15-1              15-1
15-2              15-2
15-3              15-15
15-4              15-16
15-5              15-17
15-5              15-75
15-8              15-45
15-9              15-46
15-10             15-75
16-1              16-1
16-2              16-2
16-3              16-15
16-4              16-25
16-5              16-35
16-6              16-36
16-7              16-37
16-7.1            16-38
16-8              16-50
16-9              16-51
16-10             16-52
16-11             16-65
16-12             16-66
16-13             16-67
16-14             16-68
16-15             16-69
16-16             16-70
16-17             16-71
16-18             16-72
17-1              17-1
17-2              17-2
17-3              17-3
17-4              17-15
18-1              18-1
18-2              18-15
18-3              18-16
18-4              18-17
18-5              18-18
18-6              18-19
18-7              18-20
18-8              18-21
18-9              18-22
18-10             18-23
18-11             18-24
18-12             18-25
18-13             18-26
18-14             18-27
18-15             18-28
18-16             18-29
18-17             18-30
18-18             18-40
18-19             18-41
18-20             18-42
18-21             18-43
18-22             18-55
18-23             18-56
18-24             18-57
18-25             18-58
18-26             18-59
18-30             18-70
18-31             18-71
18-32             18-72
18-33             18-71
18-34             18-72
18-35             18-73
18-36             18-74
18-37             18-75
18-38             18-76
18-39             18-77
18-42             18-125
18-43             18-77
18-44             18-91
18-45             18-92
18-46             18-125
18-47             18-105
18-48             18-106
18-49             18-107
18-50             18-108
18-51             18-109
18-52             18-110
18-53             18-111
18-54             18-112
18-55             18-113
18-56             18-114
19-1              19-1
19-2              19-2
19-3              19-3
19-4              19-4
19-5              19-5
19-6              19-6
19-7              19-7
19-8              19-8
19-9              19-9
19-10             19-10
19-11             19-20
19-12             19-21
19-13             19-22
19-14             19-23
19-15             19-24
19-16             19-25
19-17             19-26
19-18             19-27
19-19             19-28
19-20             19-29
19-21             19-30
19-22             19-31
19-23             19-32
19-24             19-33
19-25             19-34
19-26             19-35
19-27             19-36
19-28             19-37
19-29             19-50
19-30             19-51
19-31             19-52
19-32             19-53
19-33             19-54
19-34             19-55
19-35             19-56
19-36             19-57
19-37             19-58
19-38             19-59
19-39             19-60
19-40             19-61
19-41             19-62
19-42             19-63
19-43             19-64
19-44             19-65
19-45             19-66
19-46             19-67
19-47             19-68
19-48             19-69
19-49             19-70
19-50             19-71
19-51             19-72
19-52             19-73
19-53             19-74
19-54             19-75
19-55             19-100
19-56             19-101
19-57             19-102
19-58             19-103
19-59             19-104
19-60             19-105
19-61             19-106
19-62             19-107
19-63             19-108
19-64             19-109
19-65             19-120
19-66             19-121
19-67             19-122
19-68             19-123
19-69             19-124
19-70             19-135
19-70a            19-136
19-71             19-137
19-72             19-138
19-73             19-139
19-74             19-140
19-75             19-141
19-76             19-142
19-77             19-143
19-78             19-144
19-79             19-145
19-80             19-146
19-81             19-147
19-82             19-148
19-83             19-160
19-84             19-170
19-85             19-171
19-86             19-172
19-87             19-173
19-88             19-185
19-89             19-186
19-90             19-235
19-91             19-200
19-92             19-201
19-93             19-202
19-94             19-203
19-95             19-204
19-96             19-205
19-97             19-206
19-98             19-207
19-99             19-208
19-100            19-209
19-101            19-210
19-102            19-212
19-103            19-211
19-104            19-213
19-105            19-214
19-106            19-215
19-110            19-225
20-1              20-1
20-2              20-15
20-3              20-16
20-4              20-17
20-5              20-18
20-6              20-19
20-7              20-20
20-8              20-21
20-9              20-22
20-10             20-23
20-11             20-24
20-12             20-25
20-13             20-26
20-14             20-40
20-15             20-41
20-16             20-42
20-16.1           20-42
20-17             20-44
20-18             20-45
20-18             20-46
20-19             20-47
20-20             20-60
20-21             20-61
20-22             20-62
20-23             20-63
20-24             20-64
20-25             20-65
20-26             20-66
20-27             20-67
20-28             20-68
20-29             20-69
20-30             20-70
20-31             20-70
20-32             20-71
20-33             20-72
20-34             20-85
20-35             20-86
20-36             20-87
20-37             20-88
20-38             20-89
20-39             20-89
20-40             20-90
20-41             20-91
20-42             20-92
20-42.1           20-93
20-43             20-105
20-44             20-115
20-45             20-116
20-46             20-118
20-46.1           20-118
20-46.2           20-118
20-47             20-119
20-48             20-120
20-49             20-121
20-50             20-135
20-51             20-136
20-52             20-137
20-53             20-138
20-54             20-139
20-55             20-140
20-56             20-141
20-57             20-141
20-58             20-155
20-59             20-156
20-60             20-157
20-61             20-170
20-62             20-171
20-63             20-172
20-64             20-173
20-65             20-174
20-66             20-175
20-67             20-176
20-68             20-177
20-69             20-178
20-70             20-179
20-71             20-180
20-72             20-181
20-73             20-182
20-74             20-195
20-75             20-196
20-76             20-197
20-77             20-198
20-78             20-199
20-79             20-200
20-80             20-201
20-81             20-202
20-82             20-203
20-83             20-204
20-84             20-205
20-85             20-206
20-86             20-207
20-87             20-208
20-88             20-209
20-89             20-209
20-91             20-210
20-92             20-211
20-93             20-212
20-93a            20-213
20-94             20-225
20-95             20-226
20-96             20-227
20-97             20-228
20-98             20-229
20-99             20-230
20-100            20-231
20-101            20-232
20-102            20-233
20-103            20-234
20-104            20-235
20-105            20-236
20-106            20-250
20-107            20-251
20-108            20-252
20-109            20-253
20-110            20-254
20-111            20-255
20-112            20-256
20-113            20-257
20-114            20-258
20-115            20-259
20-116            20-260
20-117            20-261
20-118            20-270
20-119            20-271
20-120            20-272
20-121            20-285
20-122            20-286
20-123            20-287
20-124            20-288
20-125            20-289
20-126            20-290
20-127            20-300
20-128            20-301
20-129            20-302
20-130            20-303
20-131            20-304
20-132            20-305
20-133            20-306
20-134            20-307
20-135            20-320
20-136            20-321
20-137            20-322
20-139            20-323
20-140            20-324
20-151            20-355
20-152            20-365
20-153            20-366
20-154            20-367
20-155            20-368
20-156            20-369
20-157            20-370
20-158            20-371
20-159            20-385
20-160            20-386
20-161            20-387
21-1              21-1
21-2              21-2
21-3              21-3
21-4              21-4
21-5              21-5
21-6              21-6
21-7              21-7
21-8              21-8
21-9              21-9
21-10             21-10
21-11             21-11
21-12             21-12
21-13             21-13
21-14             21-14
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      9-7-78      16-35 -
                     16-38
00-02    4-18-00     Fee schedule
00-03    4-18-00     Fee schedule
00-11    9-5-00      Fee schedule
02-08    2-19-02     Fee schedule
02-14    4-7-02      Fee schedule
02-16    6-4-02      Fee schedule
02-31    10-1-02     Fee schedule
02-35    12-17-02    Fee schedule
2003-03  6-3-04      Fee schedule
04-14    8-17-04     Fee schedule
04-15    8-17-04     Fee schedule
05-23    9-20-05     Fee schedule
05-24    9-20-05     Fee schedule
05-25    9-20-05     Fee schedule
05-26    9-20-05     Fee schedule
05-27    9-20-05     Fee schedule
06-05    4-11-06     Fee schedule
06-17    9-19-06     Fee schedule
06-18    9-19-06     Fee schedule
06-19    9-19-06     Fee schedule
06-24    11-7-06     Fee schedule
07-02    4-17-07     Fee schedule
07-07    7-10-07     Fee schedule
08-06    4-30-08     Fee schedule
08-07    5-6-08      Fee schedule
08-08    5-20-08     Fee schedule
08-17    9-2-08      Fee schedule
08-24    12-16-08    Fee schedule
09-04    3-17-09     Fee schedule
09-06    4-21-09     Fee schedule
09-13    7-21-09     Fee schedule
09-20    11-3-09     Fee schedule
10-01    4-6-10      Fee schedule
10-03    5-18-10     Fee schedule
10-11    7-20-10     Fee schedule
11-09    6-7-11      Fee schedule
2012-06  5-1-12      Fee schedule
2012-13  9-18-12     Fee schedule
2012-15  10-2-12     Fee schedule
2013-19  9-3-13      Fee schedule
2014-02  3-4-14      Fee schedule
2014-19  9-16-14     Fee schedule
2015-04  3-3-15      Fee schedule
2015-11  7-21-15     Fee schedule
2015-12  7-21-15     Fee schedule
2016-10  6-7-16      Fee schedule
2016-11  6-7-16      Fee schedule
2016-21  11-1-16     Fee schedule
2017-06  3-7-17      Fee schedule
2017-07  3-7-17      Fee schedule
2021-31  11-2-21     Fee schedule
2022-07  2-1-22      Fee schedule
2022-08  2-1-22      Fee schedule
2023-37  10-3-23     Fee schedule
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2404     - -         15-15
2454     - -         7-15 -
                     7-33
2490     - -         4-124
2515     - -         14-24
2517     - -         8-21,
                     8-23
                     18-19 -
2520     - -         18-22,
                     18-24 -
                     18-30
2523     - -         18-125
2524     - -         2-46 -
                     2-48
2525     9-4-73      T.S.O. I
2529     - -         18-23
2533     - -         1-72
2546     - -         15-45,
                     15-46
2550     - -         4-9
2555     - -         16-51,
                     16-52
2570     - -         16-65 -
                     16-72
2576     - -         20-46
2588     - -         7-17
2589     - -         19-185,
                     19-186
2590     - -         16-1
2597     - -         2-17,
                     2-45
2598     - -         2-21,
                     2-44
2604     - -         15-17,
                     15-75
2605     - -         5-1
2617     - -         8-20,
                     8-22
2619     - -         4-190 -
                     4-196
2621     - -         9-9
2626     - -         20-355
2630     - -         1-4
2633     - -         15-16
2634     - -         1-72
2636     - -         20-93
2638     - -         4-325 -
                     4-331
                     7-45 -
                     7-54,
2640     - -         7-56 -
                     7-60,
                     7-62,
                     7-63
2649     - -         4-89
2650     - -         4-44
2651     - -         20-119
2652     - -         20-26
2664     - -         14-46,
                     14-48
2675     1-20-81     1-99
2676     3-3-81      7-75 -
                     7-79
2678     4-7-81      1-156,
                     1-157
2685     5-5-81      1-96
                     18-70 -
2686     6-16-81     18-72,
                     18-74 -
                     18-76
2688     6-18-81     18-73
2690     8-18-81     18-77
                     4-345,
2692     9-15-81     4-355,
                     8-1
2702     5-4-82      4-370 -
                     4-376
2707     7-6-82      14-85,
                     14-86
                     12-23,
2710     9-7-82      12-29,
                     12-33
                     4-96 -
2713     10- -82     4-99,
                     4-102
2714     1-18-83     19-200 -
                     19-215
2715     2-1-83      1-190
2723     8-16-83     21-1 -
                     21-14
2724     9-20-83     19-225
2727     - -         20-385 -
                     20-387
2735     3-6-84      14-53
                     18-77,
2758     1-8-85      18-91,
                     18-92,
                     18-125
                     18-105 -
2759     1-8-85      18-107,
                     18-109 -
                     18-114
2761     2-19-85     20-213,
                     20-371
                     4-116 -
                     4-120,
2767     3-5-85      4-124 -
                     4-128,
                     4-133 -
                     4-135
2768     3-5-85      4-150,
                     4-151
                     8-2,
2778     6-4-85      8-35,
                     8-36
2783     10-15-85    19-136
2786     11-5-85     4-7
2787     11-5-85     19-145
2788     12-17-85    20-303
2789     12-17-85    1-170 -
                     1-178
2798     8-5-86      T.S.O. II
2799     8-19-86     T.S.O. III
2802     11-18-86    4-390
2805     12-3-86     T.S.O. IV
2804     12-16-86    4-355
2806     12-16-86    T.S.O. IV
2767     3-5-87      4-132,
                     4-137
                     4-115,
2810     4-21-87     4-122 -
                     4-124
2816     6-16-87     T.S.O. IV
2819     7-7-87      T.S.O. IV
                     1-48,
                     2-48,
                     2-170,
                     4-3,
                     4-196,
                     4-376,
                     5-145,
                     7-30,
                     7-61,
                     9-20,
2823     - -         11-106,
                     14-1,
                     14-24,
                     15-17,
                     15-45,
                     15-75,
                     15-75,
                     18-77,
                     19-186,
                     19-235,
                     20-261,
                     20-365
2823     8-4-87      12-34
2827     9-1-87      T.S.O. IV
2826     9-3-87      T.S.O. III
2830     10-20-87    T.S.O. III
2831     10-20-87    16-50
2829     10-30-87    T.S.O. III
                     8-50 -
2828     11-3-87     8-68,
                     8-80,
                     8-90
2336     12-1-87     20-42
2833     12-15-87    7-125 -
                     7-140
2838     - -         14-46,
                     14-48
2840     4-5-88      T.S.O. III
2842     5-17-88     T.S.O. IV
2854     12-20-88    T.S.O. IV
2856     12-20-88    20-119
2857     12-20-88    20-118
2858     12-20-88    20-118
                     4-23,
                     4-36,
2863     4-18-89     4-56,
                     4-72,
                     4-100,
                     4-356
2902     6-5-89      T.S.O. III
2873     6-6-89      4-168,
                     4-170
2880     6-6-89      14-51
2881     6-20-89     19-104
2885     6-20-89     T.S.O. III
2886     6-20-89     T.S.O. III
2889     6-29-89     4-372
2890     6-29-89     4-37
2891     7-18-89     T.S.O. III
2892     8-1-89      4-37
2894     9-19-89     T.S.O. III
2898     10-3-89     T.S.O. III
2899     10-17-89    T.S.O. IV
2906     12-18-89    T.S.O. III
2904     12-19-89    21-2,
                     21-6
2800     2-2-90      11-106
2860     2-21-90     11-95
2911     3-6-90      14-46 -
                     14-48
2941     3-19-90     T.S.O. III
2913     3-20-90     T.S.O. III
2944     4-2-90      T.S.O. III
2915     5-15-90     19-173
2903     6-5-90      T.S.O. III
2920     8-7-90      19-135
                     17-2,
2930     11-20-90    17-3,
                     17-15
                     4-165,
2929     2-19-91     4-168,
                     4-170,
                     19-137
2939     3-19-91     4-190
2942     4-2-91      14-54
2937     4-16-91     T.S.O. II
2949     7-2-91      6-2
2947     8-6-91      T.S.O. II
2952     11-5-91     T.S.O. I
2961     4-21-92     14-25
2914     - -         10-40 -
                     10-50
2921     - -         4-6
2964     8-18-92     14-100 -
                     14-104
2966     10-6-92     14-21
2967     11-17-92    4-326,
                     4-331
2970     4-6-93      15-17,
                     15-75
2971     4-6-93      14-51
                     5-125 -
2972     5-18-93     5-132,
                     5-145
2973     6-15-93     7-175
2975     10-5-93     T.S.O. IV
2976     10-5-93     T.S.O. IV
2977     10-5-93     T.S.O. III
2978     10-19-93    14-23
                     17-2,
2980     12-21-93    17-3,
                     17-15
2981     2-1-94      T.S.O. IV
                     22-1,
2982     2-1-94      22-15 -
                     22-19,
                     22-50
2985     2-15-94     4-355
2987     4-5-94      T.S.O. IV
2984     4-15-94     4-35
2989     5-17-94     18-30,
                     18-125
2991     7-19-94     4-265 -
                     4-314
2992     8-2-94      T.S.O. II
2993     9-6-94      20-400 -
                     20-409
2994     10-4-94     T.S.O. IV
2998     3-7-95      20-385
2999     3-21-95     9-1 -
                     9-8
3001     8-1-95      20-105
3002     8-15-95     T.S.O. IV
3003     9-19-95     20-119
3005     2-6-96      T.S.O. IV
3006     2-20-96     1-200 -
                     1-202
3008     3-19-96     20-105
3009     5-7-96      1-145
3010     1-21-97     10-30
3014     5-6-97      T.S.O. IV
3015     5-6-97      T.S.O. II
3016     5-20-97     T.S.O. IV
3017     5-20-97     7-165
3019     5-20-97     20-105
3020     6-3-97      15-60 -
                     15-62
3022     7-15-97     21-1 -
                     21-14
3024     7-15-97     20-117
3025     8-19-97     2-100 -
                     2-106
3026     9-16-97     T.S.O. IV
3029     11-4-97     19-225
3030     11-4-97     T.S.O. II
3031     12-16-97    20-60,
                     20-61
3033     2-17-98     T.S.O. I
3035     6-2-98      T.S.O. IV
3034     6-16-98     7-90 -
                     7-112
                     2-115 -
3038     12-1-98     2-129,
                     2-170
3039     12-1-98     2-47
3044     1-19-99     T.S.O. II
3043     1-25-99     T.S.O. IV
3049     2-16-99     T.S.O. IV
3050     6-1-99      T.S.O. IV
3051     6-15-99     2-47
3052     8-17-99     2-100 -
                     2-106
3053     9-21-99     7-150 -
                     7-152
3055     12-21-99    4-400 -
                     4-407
3056     1-18-00     T.S.O. IV
3057     2-15-00     T.S.O. IV
3059     4-18-00     4-1
3060     4-18-00     4-35
3061     4-18-00     4-355
3062     4-18-00     4-87
3063     4-18-00     4-420,
                     4-421
3064     6-20-00     20-43
3068     8-15-00     T.S.O. IV
3069     8-15-00     20-42
3072     10-3-00     8-1
3071     10-17-00    23-1 -
                     23-10
3074     10-17-00    15-17,
                     15-75
3073     11-7-00     12-34
3075     3-20-01     4-210 -
                     4-233
3077     7-17-01     20-118
3080     7-17-01     12-34
3081     8-7-01      2-47
3083     8-7-01      7-18
3084     8-7-01      7-49
3085     8-7-01      7-19
3086     8-7-01      7-50
3087     8-21-01     14-55
3088     8-21-01     20-120
3090     9-18-01     7-151
                     5-125 -
3093     10-16-01    5-132,
                     5-145
3094     11-6-01     18-92
3097     12-18-01    14-115 -
                     14-120
3098     1-22-02     T.S.O. IV
3099     2-19-02     22-30 -
                     22-35
3100     3-19-02     Adopting ordinance
3102     6-4-02      15-60 -
                     15-62
3103     6-18-02     T.S.O. II
3104     7-16-02     15-15 -
                     15-17
                     16-85 -
3105     8-6-02      16-87,
                     fee schedule
3106     8-20-02     T.S.O. IV
3107     9-17-02     16-15
3108     9-17-02     16-15
3109     1-7-03      10-30
3110     3-4-03      T.S.O. III
3111     3-18-03     1-146
3112     4-1-03      12-34
3116     7-1-03      18-92
3118     7-1-03      16-15
3119     9-5-03      4-8
3122A    10-21-03    16-15
3122B    9-2-03      16-15
3123     9-2-03      20-214
3125     11-18-03    8-1
3126     11-18-03    12-34
3127     1-20-04     4-230A
3129     3-16-04     fee schedule
3130     3-2-04      22-30 -
                     22-35
3132     4-6-04      13-7
3133     4-6-04      14-60
3136     4-20-04     16-87
3137     5-4-04      12-34
3139     7-6-04      20-206
3142     10-19-04    T.S.O. IV
3143     11-16-04    4-1
3144     11-16-04    4-420
3145     11-16-04    4-87
3146     11-16-04    4-35
3147     11-16-04    4-45
3148     11-16-04    4-355
3149     12-21-04    19-137
3150     1-11-05     4-169
3153     2-1-05      T.S.O. II
3154     3-15-05     18-26
3157     4-5-05      15-60 -
                     15-62
3158     5-3-05      T.S.O. IV
3159     6-7-05      T.S.O. IV
3160     6-7-05      14-24
3161     7-5-05      4-251
3162     7-19-05     18-92
3164     9-6-05      4-11
3166     10-4-05     T.S.O. II
3167     11-1-05     20-214
3168     11-1-05     10-60 -
                     10-64
3169     12-20-05    4-37
3170     12-20-05    14-60
3171     2-21-06     15-45,
                     15-46
3172     2-21-06     16-15
3173     3-21-06     4-213,
                     4-230A
3174     3-21-06     15-60 -
                     15-62
3175     4-4-06      8-1
3176     4-4-06      8-1
3178     12-7-06     T.S.O. IV
3180     12-19-06    T.S.O. IV
3181     12-19-06    T.S.O. IV
3182     4-7-07      16-15
3183     5-15-07     T.S.O. IV
3184     6-5-07      T.S.O. IV
3185     7-17-07     16-15
3186     7-17-07     16-15
3187     10-2-07     12-34
3188     11-20-07    16-15
3189     2-5-08      4-1
3190     2-5-08      4-420
3191     2-5-08      4-35
3192     2-5-08      4-45
3193     2-5-08      4-355
3194     2-5-08      4-87
3195     6-3-08      15-17
3196     7-15-08     15-17
                     9-2,
3197     9-16-08     9-6,
                     9-7
                     3-1,
                     3-2,
                     3-15,
                     3-16,
                     3-30 -
                     3-33,
                     3-45 -
3198     9-16-08     3-50,
                     3-60,
                     3-70,
                     3-71,
                     3-80,
                     3-81,
                     3-90,
                     3-100,
                     3-120
3199     3-3-09      22-33,
                     22-34
3201     4-7-09      20-42
3202     4-21-09     1-71,
                     1-72  
                     13-1 -
                     13-10,
                     13-20 -
                     13-28,
3203     7-7-09      13-30 -
                     13-38,
                     13-40 -
                     13-47,
                     13-50 -
                     13-71
3204     7-7-09      5-106 -
                     5-117
3205     1-3-09      2-100,
                     2-104
3208     1-19-10     19-138
3211     7-20-10     20-300
3212     7-20-10     20-105
3213     9-7-10      T.S.O. II
3214     9-21-10     4-245 -
                     4-251
3215     10-18-10    4-165 -
                     4-176
3218     1-18-11     T.S.O. III
3219     6-7-11      8-21
3220     6-7-11      4-37
3221     6-7-11      5-106 -
                     5-117
3225     9-20-11     14-118
3226     4-7-12      16-15
3227     - -12       16-15
3228     3-20-12     10-30
                     15-1,
                     15-2,
                     15-15 -
                     15-17,
3229     3-20-12     15-45,
                     15-46,
                     15-60 -
                     15-62,
                     15-75
3231     5-1-12      T.S.O. III
3232     5-1-12      T.S.O. II
3233     6-19-12     T.S.O. II
3233A    8-21-12     4-420
3234     8-21-12     4-1
3235     8-21-12     4-355
3236     8-21-12     4-55
3237     8-21-12     4-35
3238     8-21-12     4-87
3239     8-21-12     7-176
3240     8-21-12     4-425,
                     4-426
3241     2-18-14     T.S.O. III
3242     9-4-12      14-46
3243     12-4-12     2-49
3246     2-5-13      2-10
3247     2-5-13      1-150
3248     8-6-13      T.S.O. II
3250     6-3-14      8-21
3251     6-3-14      T.S.O. III
                     11-101,
3252     6-3-14      11-102,
                     11-105,
                     11-106
3254     6-3-14      7-65   
                     7-73
3256     6-17-14     T.S.O. III
3257     7-1-14      T.S.O. III
3258     8-5-14      2-100 -
                     2-106
                     5-126,
3259     8-19-14     5-127,
                     5-130
3260     9-11-14     T.S.O. III
3261     9-16-14     1-146
3262     9-16-14     12-34
3263     10-7-14     7-180 -
                     7-187
3264     2-3-15      16-15
3265     11-4-14     16-15
3266     1-6-15      T.S.O. III
3267     2-3-15      T.S.O. III
3268     3-3-15      12-34
3269     4-7-15      7-65 -
                     7-73
3270     5-5-15      T.S.O. IV
3271     6-16-15     1-150
3272     8-18-15     T.S.O. IV
3273     8-18-15     T.S.O. IV
3275     10-20-15    20-501
3276     10-20-15    7-176
3277     1-19-16     7-65 -
                     7-73
3278     2-2-16      12-34
3279     2-2-16      16-15
3280     2-2-16      4-87
3281     2-16-16     T.S.O. IV
3282     2-16-16     T.S.O. IV
3285     3-1-16      7-125 -
                     7-140
3286     3-15-16     11-80 -
                     11-92
3287     4-5-16      T.S.O. IV
3288     5-3-16      12-34,
                     fee schedule
3289     6-7-16      16-15
3290     7-19-16     T.S.O. IV
3291     7-19-16     2-100 -
                     2-106
3292     8-2-16      4-56
3293     8-2-16      1-200
3294     9-6-16      4-403
3295     9-6-16      3-1,
                     3-51
3296     9-6-16      4-87
3297     9-6-16      4-1
3298     9-6-16      4-55
3299     9-6-16      4-355
3300     9-6-16      4-35
3301     10-4-16     4-420
3302     11-1-16     T.S.O. II
3305     12-6-16     T.S.O. II
3306     1- -17      T.S.O. II
3307     3-21-17     5-133
3308     6-20-17     7-176
3309     8-1-17      12-34
3310     9-5-17      T.S.O. II
3311     10-3-17     8-21
3312     12-19-17    T.S.O. IV
3313     3-6-18      T.S.O. IV
3314     8-21-18     T.S.O. IV
3315     2-5-19      16-15
3316     2-5-19      T.S.O. II
3317     5-7-19      T.S.O. IV
3318     8-20-19     14-130 -
                     14-135
3320     1-7-20      4-230A
3324     12-17-19    20-105
3325     12-3-19     T.S.O. IV
3326     1-7-20      T.S.O. IV
3327     1-21-20     4-326
                     15-30 -
3328     2-18-20     15-32,
                     15-75
3329     2-18-20     20-105
                     11-101,
3334     6-2-20      11-102,
                     11-105,
                     11-106
3335     8-4-20      T.S.O. II
3336     8-4-20      T.S.O. II
3337     8-4-20      T.S.O. IV
3338     9-8-20      16-15
3339     9-8-20      20-601 -
                     20-605
3340     10-6-20     16-15
                     14-115 -
3341     10-6-20     14-118,
                     14-120
3343     11-10-20    T.S.O. IV
3344     1-19-21     20-701 -
                     20-713
3345     2-2-21      T.S.O. IV
3347     2-2-21      T.S.O. IV
3348     2-2-21      T.S.O. IV
3349     2-2-21      T.S.O. II
3350     5-4-21      T.S.O. IV
3351     6-1-21      T.S.O. IV
3352     6-1-21      T.S.O. IV
3353     6-1-21      T.S.O. IV
3354     6-1-21      16-15
3355     6-1-21      T.S.O. IV
3356     6-15-21     23-5
3357     6-15-21     3-1,
                     3-52
3358     6-15-21     1-210
3359     8-3-21      T.S.O. IV
3360     9-7-21      T.S.O. II
3361     10-5-21     T.S.O. II
3362     10-5-21     T.S.O. II
3363     12-7-21     T.S.O. IV
3364     12-21-21    T.S.O. IV
3365     12-21-21    T.S.O. IV
3366     1-18-22     7-90 -
                     7-113
3369     5-17-22     20-215
3370     6-7-22      T.S.O. I
3371     6-7-22      T.S.O. IV
3372     6-21-22     T.S.O. IV
                     13-80 -
3373     6-21-22     13-86,
                     13-99
3374     9-20-22     7-151 -
                     7-153
3376     11-1-22     T.S.O. IV
3379     1-3-23      T.S.O. IV
3380     1-3-23      T.S.O. IV
3381     2-7-23      4-1
3382     2-7-23      4-420
3383     2-7-23      4-35
3384     2-7-23      4-355
3385     2-7-23      4-87
3386     2-7-23      4-55
3387     2-7-23      8-1
3388     4-4-23      T.S.O. IV
3390     5-2-23      T.S.O. IV
3391     5-2-23      T.S.O. IV
3392     6-6-23      T.S.O. IV
3393     6-20-23     8-21
3394     6-20-23     1-210
3396     9-5-23      T.S.O. IV
3397     9-5-23      T.S.O. IV
3398     9-5-23      T.S.O. IV
3399     9-5-23      T.S.O. IV
3402     11-7-23     T.S.O. I
3404     1-2-24      T.S.O. IV
3405     1-16-24     7-68
3406     2-20-24     T.S.O. IV
3407     2-20-24     T.S.O. II
3408     4-16-24     15-50 -
                     15-62
3410     5-7-24      T.S.O. IV
3411     5-21-24     T.S.O. IV
3412     5-21-24     5-129
 
