HENNESSEY, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 388, passed 1-11-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Ordinances in effect in outlying territory of town
   
10.05   Code alterations
Definitions
   
10.20   Constriction of words
   
10.21   Definitions
   
10.22   Catchlines
   
10.23   Statutory references
Savings Clause
   
10.35   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.36   Public ways and public utility ordinances
   
10.37   Court proceedings
   
10.38   Severability clause
Enforcement
   
10.50   Applicability of provisions
   
10.51   Liability of officers
 
   
10.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this town code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Hennessey. This
town code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the Hennessey Town Code and
is hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided
in §
10.03 of this subchapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal documents.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.35 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this town code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this town code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the town code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.04 ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF TOWN.
   All ordinances of the town now in effect within the town are hereby extended
to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town outside
the corporate limits of the town, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar
as they are applicable. All ordinances of the town which shall go into effect
in the future shall also apply to, and be in full effect, within the boundaries
of all said outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any
words in any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is
limited to the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed to mean and include
also the said outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the
town, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4)
§ 10.05 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the town and shall be returned to the office of the
Town Clerk when directed to do so by order of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5)
DEFINITIONS
§ 10.20 CONSTRICTION OF WORDS.
   (A)   Rules of construction.
      (1)   Whenever any word in any section of this town code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used.
      (2)   When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this
town code by words importing the singular number only, or a particular gender,
several matters, parties or persons and the opposite gender and bodies
corporate shall be deemed to be included, and such matters, parties or persons
referred to in the plural shall also include the singular; provided, that these
rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this town code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   (B)   Ordinance. The word ORDINANCE contained in the ordinances of the town
has been changed in the content of this town code to “title”, “chapter”,
“section” and/or “division” or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the town’s ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or BOARD. Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of
Trustees of the Town of Hennessey.
   CLEET. Council on Law Enforcement and Education Training.
   CODE. The town code of the Town of Hennessey.
   COUNTY. The County of Kingfisher, State of Oklahoma.
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Town of Hennessey”.
   FEE. A sum of money charged by the town for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation, or service, or other activity subject to town
regulation, authorization or limitation.
   GENDER. A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   O.S. Oklahoma Statutes.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a town officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the Town of
Hennessey”.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON. When used in this code or in other ordinances of the town, includes
natural persons, corporations (private and public), partnerships and all other
unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates, governmental agencies, and other
legal entities, except where a contrary intention plainly appears.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
   STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   TOWN. The Town of Hennessey, County of Kingfisher, State of Oklahoma.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person’s proper mark.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.22 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 10.23 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   Reference to the statutes of the State of Oklahoma means the statutes as
they now are or as they may be amended to be, and a reference to the 1971
statutes also means the comparable provision when included in future
codifications.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-4)
SAVINGS CLAUSE
§ 10.35 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this town
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this town code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
town; and all special ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.36 PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public
ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities,
shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this town code or by virtue of
the preceding section, excepting as the town code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this town code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.37 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Prior acts. No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   Extend to all repeals. This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Current pending actions. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this town code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 10.38 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this town code, or any part hereof, or of any ordinance, or any
portion adopted by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein,
are for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part hereof, or of
said ordinance, or any portion adopted by reference or any codes or portions of
codes adopted herein. The Board of Trustees hereby declares that it would have
passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 10.50 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application of penalty. The penalty provided in §
10.99 shall be applicable to every section of this town code the same as though
it were a part of each and every separate section.
   (B)   Acts punishable under different sections. In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this town code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but
not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   (C)   Breach of provisions. Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this town code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 10.51 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provision of this town code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   Except in cases where a different punishment is now or may hereafter be
prescribed by ordinance or state statute, any person, firm or corporation who
violates any provision of this code commits an offense, or misdemeanor, and
shall, upon conviction, be fined in any amount not to exceed $500
excluding costs. Each day’s continuation of an offense, or misdemeanor, shall
be deemed a separate offense, or misdemeanor, and shall be punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   FINANCE
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
37.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Elective officers
   
30.02   Mayor and Vice Mayor; election
   
30.03   Mayor; powers and duties
   
30.04   Board of Trustees; powers and duties
   
30.05   Oaths
   
30.06   Meetings
   
30.07   Procedures
   
30.08   Succession in emergency
§ 30.01 ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Board of Trustees; elections: The Board of Trustees shall consist of
five Trustees, said Trustees to be nominated and elected by the town at large.
Commencing on the effective date hereof, the Trustees office shall be known as
“Trustee office no.         ”. Incumbents shall serve until the expiration of
their term. Commencing on the first Tuesday in April 2007, Trustee office nos.
1, 3 and 5, and the Town Clerk shall be elected for a term of four years.
Commencing on the first Tuesday in April 2009, Trustees of office nos. 2 and 4
and the Town Treasurer shall be elected for a term of four years.
   (B)   Terms. The terms of the officials elected under this section shall
begin on the second Monday following their election, and they shall serve until
their successors are elected and qualified.
   (C)   Vacancies. If vacancies occur in any of the offices herein enumerated
for the town, the Board of Trustees at such time may fill such vacancies by
appointment, but such appointment by the Board shall only be until the next
election, at which time the electors of the town may elect some person to fill
the unexpired term. If such vacancy has not been filled within 60 days after it
occurs, the governing body shall call for a special election to be held in the
municipality for the purpose of filling the vacancy for the duration of the
unexpired term.
   (D)   Special election. When a majority of governing body offices are vacant
more than 60 days before the beginning of a regular filing period for general
municipal elections, the remaining members of the governing body shall call for
a special election to be held in the municipality for the purpose of filling
all vacant offices for the remainder of their unexpired terms.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1) (Ord. 315, passed 8-11-2005)
§ 30.02 MAYOR AND VICE MAYOR; ELECTION.
   The Board of Trustees shall elect from among its members a Mayor. The Mayor
shall be elected in each odd-numbered year at the first Board of Trustees
meeting held after trustee terms begin, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
The Mayor shall serve until his or her successor has been elected and
qualified. All references to the “President of the Town Board of Trustees” in
state statutes shall mean the town Mayor.
Statutory reference:
   Same provisions, see 11 O.S. § 12-104
§ 30.03 MAYOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board and shall certify to
the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He or
she shall be recognized as head of the town government for all ceremonial
purposes and shall have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor shall have all the powers, rights, privileges, duties
and responsibilities of a Trustee, including the right to vote on questions.
During the absence, disability or suspension of the Mayor, the Vice Mayor shall
serve as acting Mayor.
      (2)   When a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor, the Board shall
elect another Mayor from among its members to serve for the duration of the
unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 30.04 BOARD OF TRUSTEES; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   All powers of a statutory Town Board of Trustees as provided by law shall be
within the power of the Board of Trustees, including the determination of
matters of policy. Without limitation of the foregoing, the Board may:
   (A)   Appointment of officers. Appoint and remove, and confirm appointment
of, designated town officers and employees as provided by law or ordinance;
   (B)   Legislation. Enact municipal legislation subject to limitations as may
now or hereafter be imposed by the Oklahoma Constitution and law;
   (C)   Finances. Raise revenue, establish rates for services and taxes, make
appropriations, regulate salaries and wages and all other fiscal affairs of the
town, subject to limitations as may now or hereafter be imposed by the Oklahoma
Constitution and law;
   (D)   Inspection of books. Inspect any and all books maintained by the Town
Clerk and the Town Treasurer;
   (E)   Investigation of town affairs. Inquire into the conduct of any office,
department or agency of the town and investigate municipal affairs or authorize
and provide for such inquiries;
   (F)   Departments and officers. Create, change and abolish offices,
departments or agencies other than those established by law; assign additional
functions and duties to offices, departments and agencies established by this
code; and define the duties, powers and privileges of all officers which are
not defined by this code; and
   (G)   Pardons. Grant pardons for violation of town ordinances including the
remission of fines and costs.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 30.05 OATHS.
   Any officer, elected or appointed, before entering upon the duties of his or
her office, shall take and subscribe to the oath or affirmation of office
prescribed by the State Constitution. The oath or affirmation shall be filed in
the office of the Town Clerk.
Statutory reference:
   Oath of office, see 11 O.S. § 8-103
§ 30.06 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Time. The Board of Trustees shall hold a regular meeting at 6:00 p.m.
on the second Tuesday of each month; provided that if such Monday falls on a
holiday, the regular meeting shall be held on the following Tuesday at 7:00
p.m.
   (B)   Location. Every meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be held in the
town hall unless, in case of an emergency, the Mayor designates another place
in the town for the holding of a special meeting; provided, that any adjourned
meeting may be held at any other place within the town designated by the Board.
   (C)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or any
three Trustees.
   (D)   Open meetings. Meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be open to the
public, pursuant to 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6) (Ord. 305, passed 11-6-2001; Ord. 363, passed 12-8-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 9-109
§ 30.07 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Authority in law. The Mayor and Trustees of the Board of Trustees and
their successors in office shall constitute a body politic and corporate, and
shall be capable in law to prosecute and defend suits to which they are a party
and shall represent the town for any and all purposes.
   (B)   Responsibility and reporting duties for Town Administrator.
      (1)   The Town Administrator is assigned the following responsibilities
and shall report directly to the Town Board of Trustees regarding the same:
         (a)   Serve as chief administrative officer not including the
responsibilities assigned by the municipal code to the Town Board or Municipal
Judge;
         (b)   Hire and appoint all town employees and non-elected town
officers; for the good of the service terminate, lay off, suspend, demote and
remove any town employee or non-elected town officer except when the Town
Board, the town code or state law has delegated this duty to another
administrative town employee or town officer;
         (c)   Supervise and control, whether directly or indirectly, all town
administrative departments, agencies non-elected officers and employees;
         (d)   Prepare an annual budget for the town prior to each fiscal year
and implement the same; make recommendations to modify the budget during the
budget year as may be necessary;
         (e)   Provide a written report at the end of each fiscal year
summarizing the financial performance and administrative activity of the town
during the prior fiscal year; recommend changes of policy or procedure as may
be necessary;
         (f)   Advise the Town Board monthly of the current financial condition
of the town and identify future needs of the town; and
         (g)   Perform all other duties hereafter assigned to the Town
Administrator by the Town Board.
      (2)   Public Works Director position eliminated. The position of Public
Works Director is hereby eliminated. All duties previously assigned to the
Public Works Director are to be performed by the Town Administrator or his or
her delegate.
      (3)   Emergency purchasing limits. The Town Administrator is empowered
based on an emergency or urgent need to purchase or contract for goods,
services or capital over $5,000 but not to exceed $25,000. Board of Trustees
approval shall be obtained in arrears to the time the commitment is made, and
such approval shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business at the regularly scheduled meetings of the
Board of Trustees shall be:
         (a)   Call to order;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   Reading of the minutes;
         (d)   Presentation of claims and accounts;
         (e)   Reports of officers;
         (f)   Reports of committees;
         (g)   Hearing of citizens;
         (h)   Unfinished business;
         (i)   Original motions, resolutions, or ordinances;
         (j)   Trustees’ reports; and
         (k)   Adjournment.
      (2)   The order of business at any meeting may be amended by a motion.
   (D)   Quorum. A majority of the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
   (E)   Voting. All voting shall be by a roll call of the Trustees by the Town
Clerk. All voting shall be by yes, no or abstain, and shall be taken on all
questions.
   (F)   Motions. All motions may be reduced to writing and, if desired by the
Mayor or any member of the Board, shall be read by the presiding officer or
Clerk before a vote is taken on the motion.
   (G)   Parliamentary questions. All parliamentary questions shall be decided
by the presiding officer subject to override by a three-fifths vote of the
Board.
   (H)   Special committees. Any and all special committees shall be appointed
by the presiding officer.
   (I)   Actions by Mayor. The Mayor has the right to engage in debate and to
make and second motions.
   (J)   Executive sessions. Executive sessions to discuss personnel shall be
placed on the agenda with specific actions to be considered set forth.
   (K)   Agenda. Any item may be placed on the agenda by request of any Board
member. No item placed on the agenda shall be discussed in the member’s absence
unless by majority vote of all the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-7) (Ord. 288, passed 1-9-1997; Ord. 376, passed 5-13-2019;
Ord. 383, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 30.08 SUCCESSION IN EMERGENCY.
   The line of succession to be used in establishing the government head of the
town in the event of an emergency shall be as follows:
   (A)   Mayor;
   (B)   Vice Mayor; and
   (C)   Trustees of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-8)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Compensation
   
31.002   Bonds
   
31.003   Officers to continue until successors qualify
   
31.004   Personnel policy
   
31.005   Retirement system
   
31.006   Federal old age and survivors’ insurance
   
31.007   Workplace drug testing policy
Town Clerk and Town Treasurer
   
31.020   Town Clerk
   
31.021   Town Clerk; additional duties
   
31.022   Town Treasurer
   
31.023   Appointment
Office Manager
   
31.035   Position created
   
31.036   Compensation
   
31.037   Serve as Town Clerk
Town Administrator
   
31.050   Administrative head of town government
   
31.051   Duties and responsibilities
Town Attorney
   
31.065   Office created
   
31.066   Appointment and term
   
31.067   Vacancy of office
   
31.068   Actions involving town
   
31.069   Ordinances and contracts
   
31.070   Municipal Court
   
31.071   Record of actions
   
31.072   Duties upon request
Town Engineer
   
31.085   Appointment
   
31.086   Street improvements
Building Inspector
   
31.100   Town building inspector
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Regulation. The Board of Trustees, by motion, resolution or ordinance,
may regulate the number and classes of offices and positions of employment in
the various departments, offices and agencies of the town government, and may
determine or regulate the compensation to be paid to officers and employees.
Compensation not otherwise provided for shall be at the prevailing minimum wage
rate.
   (B)   Fees. Neither the Municipal Judge nor any other officer or employee of
the town government may receive as compensation any fee of any kind except as
may be specifically provided by ordinance passed hereafter; and all fees and
other money collected for the town by an officer or employee shall be paid to
the town offices to be deposited as provided by law.
   (C)   Compensation set by ordinance. Since the law requires that the
compensation of certain officers shall be set by ordinance, the compensation of
each of the following shall be as respectively indicated below:
 
Mayor          $125 per month
Each Trustee   $75 per month
Town Clerk     $400 per month
Town Treasurer $300 per month
 
   (D)   Salary not to change while in office. In no case shall the salary or
emoluments of any town officer elected or appointed for a definite term be
changed after his or her election or appointment or during his or her term of
office unless by operation of an ordinance passed prior to such election or
appointment (such being prohibited by the Oklahoma Constitution, Article 23,
Section 10); provided that this shall not apply to officers chosen for
indefinite terms nor to employees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995; Ord. 279, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 31.002 BONDS.
   (A)   Certain officers; required. The Town Administrator, Town Clerk, Deputy
Town Clerk, Town Treasurer and Chief of Police shall, within ten days after
their election or appointment, give bonds payable to the town, in such amounts
as the Board of Trustees shall direct, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties, as required by 11 O.S. § 8-105. The town shall pay
the premiums on such bonds.
   (B)   Other officers and employees. The Board of Trustees, by motion or
resolution, may require other officers and employees to be bonded.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 31.003 OFFICERS TO CONTINUE UNTIL SUCCESSORS QUALIFY.
   Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term shall continue
to serve thereafter until his or her successor is elected or appointed and
qualifies, unless his or her services are sooner terminated by resignation,
disqualification, removal, death, abolition of the office or other legal
manner.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 31.004 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   There is hereby adopted by reference, as though set forth herein in its
entirety, a personnel policy for the town entitled “Hennessey Employee
Handbook”. A copy of the rules and regulations comprising said personnel policy
shall be available for inspection in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4)
§ 31.005 RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference, as though set forth herein in
its entirety, an employee retirement system for the town.
   (B)   A copy of said retirement system shall be available for inspection in
the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5) (Ord. 330, passed 3-5-2009; Ord. 332, passed 10-8-2009;
Ord. 354, passed 4-9-2015; Ord. 359, passed 7-9-2015; Ord. 365, passed 4-10-
2017; Ord. 384, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 31.006 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVORS’ INSURANCE.
   (A)   Benefits extended.
      (1)   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the town to
extend, at the earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof, not
excluded by law or ordinance, and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the system of federal old
age and survivors’ insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act
and amendments thereto, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 401 et seq.
      (2)   In pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose, the town shall
take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
   (B)   Mayor authorized to execute agreements. The Mayor of the town is
hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and
amendments thereto with the State Department of Institutions, Social and
Rehabilitative Services, as agent or agency, to secure coverage of employees
and officials as provided in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Withholdings from salaries and wages. Withholdings from salaries or
wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided in division (A) of
this section are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times
as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and
shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated by said laws or
regulations.
   (D)   Appropriations for employer’s contributions. There shall be
appropriated from available funds such amounts at such times as may be required
by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employer’s
contributions, which shall be paid over to the state or federal agency
designated by said laws or regulations.
   (E)   Records and reports. The town shall keep such records and make such
reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   (F)   Employees and officers now covered by other retirement systems. There
is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make any agreement with
respect to any position or any employee or official now covered or authorized
to be covered by any other ordinance creating any retirement system for any
employee or official of the town.
   (G)   Employees and officers on a fee basis excluded. There is hereby
excluded from this section any authority to make any agreement with respect to
any position or any employee or official whose compensation is on a fee basis,
or any position or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-6)
§ 31.007 WORKPLACE DRUG TESTING POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to create and maintain a drug
and alcohol free work environment by identifying existing employees, officers
and potential employees, who use or abuse illicit drugs and/or abuse prescribed
medications.
   (B)   Policy statement. It is the policy of the town to provide a safe
environment in order to conduct town business in the most effective manner
possible. A safe environment will be attained by appropriate employee
screening, employee education and training, surveillance of the work area and
the effective management of situations involving drugs and alcohol regarding
individuals who fall under the purview of town (i.e., this would include
individuals operating equipment on or off of town property). It is the intent
of the town through its policy, procedures and practices to reduce the
potential for:
      (1)   The manufacture, possession, use, sale, distribution, dispensation,
receipt or transportation of illegal substances while on town property or while
otherwise engaged in town business;
      (2)   The consumption of alcoholic beverages on town property or while
otherwise engaged in town business;
      (3)   Being under the influence of substances while on town property or
while otherwise engaged in town business or during employment; and
      (4)   Performing duties while under the influence of substances whether
on or off town property.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      POSSESSION. To have on one’s person, in one’s personal effects, in one’s
vehicle or otherwise under one’s care, custody or control.
      PREMISES. For the purpose of this policy all property, facilities,
buildings, structures, installations, work locations, work areas or vehicles
owned, operated, leased, or under the control of the town to which such
premises or property pertains. Private vehicles parked on premises or
properties are also included under this definition.
      PRESCRIPTION. A valid prescription issued to the employee by a licensed
health care provider authorized to issue such prescription and used for its
intended purpose as prescribed before any expiration date.
      SUBSTANCE. Any alcohol, drugs, other substances whether ingested,
inhaled, injected subcutaneously, or otherwise) that have known mind altering
or function-altering effects upon the human body or that impair one’s ability
to safely perform his or her work, specifically including, but not limited to,
prescriptions drugs and over-the-counter medications; alcohol, drugs and other
substances made illegal under federal or state law; “synthetic or designer”
drugs: illegal inhalants; “look-alike” drugs; amphetamines, cannabinoids
(marijuana and hashish), cocaine, phencyclinidine (PCP), and opiates; and any
drugs or other substances references in Schedule I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308 (whether or not such drugs or other substances are narcotics).
      UNDER THE INFLUENCE. The condition wherein any of the body’s sensory,
cognitive or motor functions or capabilities is altered, impaired, diminished
or affected due to substances. This also means the detectable presence of
substances within the body, regardless of when or where they may have been
consumed, having an alcohol test result of 0.08 or greater alcohol
concentration of blood or breath, and/or having a positive test for other
substances.
   (D)   Applicability. This policy and companion procedures apply to all town
facilities and property and to all officers and employees. All officers and
employees are responsible to be familiar with and comply with this policy and
companion procedures.
   (E)   Policy provisions.
      (1)   Violation. It is a violation of the law to manufacture, possess,
use, sell, distribute, receive or transport illicit drugs on town property. The
illegal possession, distribution or use of drugs by employees on town property
will not be tolerated and may subject violators to discipline, up to and
including termination. Any person, whether an employee or not, engaging in
prohibited conduct under this policy is also subject to legal action.
      (2)   Legal compliance. The provisions of this policy are subject to any
federal, state or local laws that may prohibit or restrict their applicability,
and testing for substances shall be conducted in accordance with and limited by
such laws notwithstanding any terms of this policy to the contrary.
      (3)   Pre-employment substance testing. Individuals, to whom the town
makes an offer of employment, is contingent upon the results of a substance
test of breath, saliva, urine, blood and/or hair in accordance with this
policy. Individuals, to whom a contingent offer is made, whose pre-employment
substance tests return positive (except with respect to prescription drugs and
over-the-counter medications) will be ineligible for employment. Should a
candidate fail his or her initial drug test, he or she will have the option of
re-testing within 24 hours at the town’s expense. Individuals who test positive
contingent on a drug screen, offers of employment will be revoked.
      (4)   Other substance tests.
         (a)   1.   The town may periodically conduct substance tests based on
breath, saliva, urine, blood and/or hair samples under any of the circumstances
noted below. Any employee subjected to any substance test will be required to
sign a substance test consent form.
            2.   Refusal to sign the form or leaving the work area prior to the
substance test without permission of the supervisor, or refusal to cooperate in
any way with the testing process, shall be grounds for immediate termination of
employment. In the event, an employee consents to a substance test but fails to
sign a substance test consent form, his or her failure will not invalidate the
consent for the testing.
         (b)   An employee, who appears to be under the influence of substance
(s), may, at the sole discretion of the town, be removed from the work area and
provided with transportation to the place of testing.
         (c)   At the discretion of the town, employees suspected of violating
this policy may be placed on administrative leave with or without pay pending
test results. If test results are negative; the employee will be reimbursed for
any salary lost during administrative leave.
            1.   Post-accident testing. If the town has reasonable cause to
believe an employee has caused an on-the-job injury that is considered
recordable under OSHA guidelines (i.e., requiring medical treatment) as a
result of being under the influence, the supervisor may require the injured
employee to undergo a post-accident substance test. Refusal to submit to the
substance test shall be grounds for immediate termination of employment. Town
employees who operate town vehicles or equipment, or who are police officers or
dispatchers, or operate the water or sewer treatment plants are subject to
random no-notice substance testing.
            2.   Fitness for duty. Employees suspected to be unfit for duty as
a result of the use or reasonably suspected use of substances will be subject
to substance testing. Refusal to submit to substance test will be grounds for
immediate termination of employment.
            3.   Reasonable suspicion. The town may require an employee to
submit to a substance test if the employee’s supervisor and another individual
in a management position has a reasonable belief that the employee is using, is
under the influence of, or is in the possession of substance or has otherwise
violated this policy’s prohibition on the use of substances. Refusal to submit
to a substance test will be grounds for immediate termination of employment.
            4.   Random selection testing. All employees are subject to random
testing for substances. Where random testing is prohibited or restricted by
applicable state or local statute or regulation, or other legally-binding
agreement, the town will conform to all applicable laws, regulations,
agreements notwithstanding the provisions of this policy.
            5.   Alteration of sample. Specimens reported by the testing
laboratory as adulterated or substituted will be considered a refusal to test,
and therefore grounds for immediate termination of employment or ineligibility
for hire.
            6.   Workplace searches. Management may conduct searches of town
property, including lockers, and an employee’s personal property in cases where
there is reasonable cause to suspect a violation of this policy. While no
search will be conducted without an employee’s consent, consent to a search is
a condition of continued employment with the facility. An employee who refuses
to cooperate in the conducting of such searches will be subject to disciplinary
action up to, and including, termination of employment.
            7.   Collection of samples. Testing samples will be collected by a
qualified individual only, whether such individuals are employees of an outside
testing laboratory. Collection of samples will be performed under reasonable
and sanitary conditions. The chain of custody of the sample will be recorded,
and this record should be retained.
            8.   Off-premises use. The town reserves the right to suspend with
pay any employee who has been arrested for criminal offenses related to the
manufacture, possession, sale, use, distribution, dispensation, receipt or
transport of any illegal substance pending resolution of the charges to the
town’s satisfaction.
      (5)   Conviction. Employees who are convicted of any substance related
violation under state or federal law or who plead guilty or nolo contendere
(i.e., no contest) to such charges must inform the town in writing within five
days of the conviction or plea. Failure to do so will result in disciplinary
action, up to and including termination. In the event of an employee’s
conviction or plea to charges relating to the manufacture, possession, sale,
use, distribution, dispensation, receipt or transportation of any substance,
the facility will determine whether disciplinary action will be taken,
including the appropriateness of continued employment.
   (F)   Confidentiality of test results. All test results will be handled on a
confidential basis and will be available only to the town personnel who have a
need to know such results. The Director, Human Resources or his or her
designated representative will determine who will have access to these records.
   (G)   Attachments.
      (1)   Substance test consent form.
   TOWN OF HENNESSEY
   CONFIDENTIAL DRUG TESTING CONSENT FORM
   Employee/Applicant’s
Name (Print Name)________________________________________________
A.   I understand that I am being asked to provide a blood, urine or hair sample for
testing to determine the presence of alcohol, drugs or controlled substances in my
system. I understand that I do not have to provide such a specimen if I choose not to
do so, but that my refusal will result in termination of my employment at the town or
revocation of any offer of employment.
B.   I hereby give consent to and authorize the Town of Hennessey and its agents,
servants, employees and/or physician chosen by the town to take blood, urine or hair
specimen and to use such specimen in any manner that the facility and its agents,
servants, employees and physicians deem appropriate, including, but not limited to,
releasing such specimen to a testing laboratory, hospital, other person or service
for testing. I hereby give consent to and authorize the facility and its agents,
servants, employees, and/or physicians chosen by the facility and any such testing
laboratory, hospital, person or service to conduct drug tests and to release the
results of the tests or other information concerning the specimen to or to any person
or firm designated by the town.
C.   I hereby release the Town of Hennessey any of their officers, agents, servants,
employees and physicians, any laboratory, hospital, person or facility responsible
for testing from any and all claims, causes of action, damages or liability relating
to the testing or use and dissemination of test results, including, but not limited
to, all claims for injuries or damages arising out of our relating to the collection
of specimens, procedures, the release of information or results concerning such
testing, or any action taken regarding any employability or continued employment as a
result of such testing and/or test results.
   _____________   I consent to provide a blood, urine or hair specimen for use in
the manner described herein.
   _____________   I refuse to provide a blood, urine, or hair specimen. I understand
that my refusal constitutes grounds for immediate termination or disqualification
from employment consideration.
   ________________________________________ ________
   Employee/Applicant’s Signature (Print and Sign)    Date
 
   _________________________________________ ________
   Witness’s Signature (Print and Sign)          Date
 
      (2)   Town statement of a drug-free workplace.
   TOWN OF HENNESSEY
   STATEMENT OF A DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE
A.   Town is committed to maintaining a drug-free workplace in compliance with applicable
state and federal laws. The unlawful possession, use, distribution, dispensation, sale or
manufacture of controlled substances is prohibited on town property. Violation of this
policy may result in the imposition of employment discipline as defined for specific
employee categories by existing Town Ordinances and policies. Any employee convicted of a
drug offense involving the workplace shall be subject to employee discipline.
B.   The illegal use of controlled substances can seriously injure the health of employees,
adversely impair the performance of their responsibilities and endanger the safety and well
being of fellow employees, students, and members of the general public. Therefore, the town
strongly encourages employees who have a problem with the use of illegal controlled
substances or abuse prescribed medications to seek professional treatment. A list of sources
for drug counseling, rehabilitation, and assistance programs may be obtained from the town
offices.
Employees who are engaged in work under a federal contract may be required to submit to drug
test for use of illegal controlled substances as provided by the law or regulations of the
contracting agency.
C.   As a condition of employment, employees will strictly adhere to the stipulations as
outlined in this statement. In addition, those employees working on a federal contract or
grant will notify his/her supervisor if he/she is convicted of a criminal drug offense
occurring in the workplace within five (5) days of the conviction. The Town will notify the
granting or contracting federal agency within ten (10) days of receiving notice of the
conviction of any employee working on a federal contract or grant when said conviction
involves a drug offense occurring in the workplace. A copy of this statement shall be given
to all employees assigned to a federal contract or grant.
D.   The requirements outlined in this statement are in accordance with the provisions of
the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 41 U.S.C. §§ 8101 et seq., and will be applied in
accordance with the law, rules and regulations pursuant the act.
   I acknowledge that I have read and understand the Town Statement of a Drug-Free
Workplace.
________________________________________________
Signature (Print Name and Sign)                      Employee/Applicant
 
(Ord. 320, passed 10-5-2006)
TOWN CLERK AND TOWN TREASURER
§ 31.020 TOWN CLERK.
   The Town Clerk shall be an officer of the town. The Clerk shall:
   (A)   Journal of proceedings. Keep the journal of the proceedings of the
Board of Trustees;
   (B)   Record of ordinances. Enroll in a book kept for the purpose all
ordinances and resolutions passed by the Board of Trustees;
   (C) Custody of documents. Have custody of documents, records and archives as
may be provided by law or ordinance, and have custody of the town seal;
   (D)   Affix seal. Attest and affix the seal of the town to documents as
required by law or ordinance; and
   (E)   Other powers by law. Have such other powers, duties and functions as
prescribed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-1)
§ 31.021 TOWN CLERK; ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   (A)   Unrelated duties.
      (1)   The person who serves as Town Clerk may, from time to time, be
employed by the town to perform duties not related to such position as Town
Clerk, including, but not limited to, the performance of such duties relating
to the maintenance of the books and records and office operations of the town
as the Board of Trustees shall prescribe.
      (2)   The person shall be an employee of the town and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Trustees.
   (B) Compensation.
      (1)   The pay period for such position shall be the same as for other
municipal employees, at a rate established by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Benefits, holidays and sick leave for such position shall be
provided in accordance with any personnel policy or other policy of the town.
      (3)   The salary of the position shall not be subject to Constitutional
restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-2) ((Ord. 282, passed 7-6-1995)
§ 31.022 TOWN TREASURER.
   (A)   Officer. The Town Treasurer shall be an officer of the town.
   (B)   Duties. The Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Accounts and books. Maintain accounts and books to show where and
from what source all monies paid to him or her have been derived and to whom
and when any monies have been paid;
      (2)   Other powers by law. Have such other powers, duties and functions
as may be prescribed by law or ordinance;
      (3)   Deposits. Deposit daily funds received for the town in depositories
as the Board of Trustees may designate; and
      (4)   Unrelated duties. The person who serves as Town Treasurer may, from
time to time, be employed by the town to perform duties not related to such
position as Town Treasurer, including, but not limited to, the performance of
such duties relating to the maintenance of the books and records and office
operations of the town as the Board of Trustees shall prescribe. The person
shall be an employee of the town and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board
of Trustees.
   (C)   Examination of books and accounts. The Treasurer’s books and accounts
shall at all times be subject to examination by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-3)
§ 31.023 APPOINTMENT.
   The Board of Trustees of the town may by ordinance provide for the
submission to a vote of the qualified electors of the town the question of
providing for the appointment by the Board of Trustees of the Town Clerk, the
Town Treasurer or the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-4)
OFFICE MANAGER
§ 31.035 POSITION CREATED.
   There is hereby created the position of office manager. The office manager
is responsible for all records and bookkeeping set forth in the town code for
the town, excluding the duties of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-7B-1) (Ord. 288, passed 1-9-1997)
§ 31.036 COMPENSATION.
   The pay period for office manager shall be the same as for other municipal
employees and at an hourly rate set forth by the Board of Trustees. Benefits,
holidays and sick leave for the office manager shall be provided in accordance
with the personnel policies of the town. The office manager’s salary shall not
be subject to Constitutional restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 1-7B-2) (Ord. 288, passed 1-9-1997)
§ 31.037 SERVE AS TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   Authority. The office manager may serve, if elected or appointed, as
the Town Clerk and receive the salary set forth for Town Clerk for the
performance of statutory duties, above and beyond the hourly rate paid for
being office manager.
   (B)   Service optional. Nothing herein requires the office manager to also
hold the position of Town Clerk. If the office manager chooses not to seek the
office of Town Clerk or is not elected to the position of Town Clerk, the Board
of Trustees may continue to employ the office manager in that position at the
hourly rate set forth by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7B-3) (Ord. 288, passed 1-9-1997)
TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.050 ADMINISTRATIVE HEAD OF TOWN GOVERNMENT.
   The Town Administrator reports directly to the Town Board of Trustees and
shall serve as the administrative head of the town government in accordance
with the policies determined by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7C-1) (Ord. 297, passed 7-6-2000; Ord. 322, passed 1-26-2007)
§ 31.051 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Town Administrator will be an employee at will and serve at the pleasure
of the Town Board. The Town Administrator shall be granted the following
responsibilities with regard to the remaining departments:
   (A)   Activity supervision. Supervises the activities of all departments
performing functions;
   (B)   Budget. Prepares the annual budget and submits such to elected
officials for approval;
   (C)   Personnel functions. Performs all personnel functions including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   Hiring. Conducts and has responsibility for all phases of the
hiring process;
      (2)   Disciplinary action. Conducts and has responsibility for all phases
of the disciplinary action process;
      (3)   Promotions. Conducts and has responsibility for promotions of
employees and reports all to the Board of Trustees;
      (4)   Performance evaluations. Conducts and has responsibility for
department head and administrative staff performance evaluations;
      (5)   Personnel policy and job descriptions. Updates personnel policy
manual and job descriptions for all employees; and
      (6)   Other personnel actions. Conducts and has responsibility for all
other personnel actions as they occur and are necessary.
   (D)   Purchasing policy. Maintains a purchasing policy for the town as
prescribed by Oklahoma Statutes;
   (E)   Development. Plans for future development of urban and nonurban areas
to provide for population growth and expansion of public services;
   (F)   Enforcement of laws. Ensures that all laws and ordinances governing
the town are enforced;
   (G)   Meetings of Board. Reports to the Board and attends all meetings of
the Board with the right to take part in the discussions, but has no vote;
   (H)   Recommendations. Recommends to the Board for adoption such measures as
deemed necessary or expedient;
   (I)   Franchises. Sees that all franchise rights and provisions are justly
enforced;
   (J)   Investigations. Has powers at any time to investigate the affairs of
any department and make recommendations to the Board of Trustees;
   (K)   Safety guidelines. Enforces safety rules and encourages safety
application for employees, conforming to the safety guidelines set by the town;
   (L)   Employees and customers. Introduces employee training programs and
customer techniques;
   (M)   Coordination with other entities. Works with various federal,
regional, state and local entities as needed to promote and benefit the town;
   (N)   Representation of town. Represents the town at various functions,
meetings, seminars and conferences and works toward increasing citizen
participation in local government;
   (O)   Other duties. Performs other duties as specified by the Board of
Trustees; and
   (P)   Utility Administrator. Serves as utility administrator for the town
utility authority with the same duties and responsibilities as are set forth
above.
(Prior Code, § 1-7C-2) (Ord. 297, passed 7-6-2000)
TOWN ATTORNEY
§ 31.065 OFFICE CREATED.
   There is hereby created the office of Town Attorney, who shall be a person
of good moral character, licensed to practice law by the State of Oklahoma, who
shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the consent of the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-1)
§ 31.066 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   Said Town Attorney shall be appointed for a term of one year, said year to
begin and end on July 1 of each year or at any other time hereafter fixed by
law for the beginning of the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-2)
§ 31.067 VACANCY OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Said Board of Trustees may leave said office vacant if by order it
finds there is no necessity for said Town Attorney.
   (B)   When said office is vacant said Board of Trustees shall have the
authority and may employ a competent attorney to represent the town as the case
or occasion may deem necessary and at such fee or fees that may be reasonable
and may be agreed upon by such Board of Trustees and said Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-3)
§ 31.068 ACTIONS INVOLVING TOWN.
   (A)   He or she shall appear, prosecute and defend all actions wherein the
town is a party, provided he or she shall be allowed his or her actual and
necessary traveling and hotel expense while outside the town on business for
the town, upon direction of the Board of Trustees, and this expense shall be in
addition to his or her regular compensation as fixed by the Board of Trustees
by resolution from time to time.
   (B)   He or she shall perform such other professional services as may be
required of him or her by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-4)
§ 31.069 ORDINANCES AND CONTRACTS.
   He or she shall draw such ordinances as may be required of him or her by the
Board of Trustees, or by any committee thereof. He or she shall draw the
leases, deeds, and papers connected with the Finance Department and all
contracts for any of the other departments of the town when so required by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-5)
§ 31.070 MUNICIPAL COURT.
   When requested to do so by the Mayor, Municipal Judge or the Chief of
Police, the Town Attorney shall appear in municipal court and prosecute
complaints for offenses against the town ordinances, but he or she shall not be
required to prosecute such actions unless the same are instituted upon
complaint of some town officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-6)
§ 31.071 RECORD OF ACTIONS.
   The Town Attorney shall keep a proper record of expenses and a register of
all actions prosecuted or defended in courts of record, in which the town may
be a party, and all proceedings had therein, which shall at all times be open
to the inspection of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-7)
§ 31.072 DUTIES UPON REQUEST.
   He or she shall not be required to attend regularly with the Board of
Trustees but shall upon request of the Board of Trustees perform such duties as
may be required of him or her.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-8)
TOWN ENGINEER
§ 31.085 APPOINTMENT.
   The Board of Trustees, at any time necessary where the work of the town
requires it, may appoint an engineer whose duties and compensation be such as
the Board of Trustees may prescribe by motion.
(Prior Code, § 1-7E-1)
§ 31.086 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   In addition to any regular engineer so appointed in the creation of paving
districts, an engineer may be especially employed who is competent for this
purpose involving street improvements.
(Prior Code, § 1-7E-2)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 31.100 TOWN BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   There may be a town building inspector. The duties of the building inspector
are to review the building permits submitted to the town and ensure they comply
with the rules and regulations outlined in Chapters 150 and 154 of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-7F-1)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Department created; Chief of Police
   
32.02   Duties
   
32.03   Educational requirements
Unclaimed Property
   
32.15   Record
   
32.16   Disposition of property in possession of Chief of Police
   
32.17   Property found by private person
   
32.18   Recovery by owner
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF OF POLICE.
   There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of
Police. The Chief of Police is an officer of the town, and has supervision and
control of the Police Department. All police officers are officers of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 32.02 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Police Department to apprehend and arrest on view or
on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the town; to
suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to its
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the offices of police officers.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 32.03 EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Persons seeking employment as a police officer in the town shall be
required to be certified by and follow the provisions set by the Council on Law
Enforcement Education and Training (CLEET).
   (B)   CLEET is authorized to conduct full-time Basic Peace Officer
Certification Academies and other law enforcement related training for
individuals not commissioned or appointed by a law enforcement agency under
rules established by the Council.
Statutory reference:
   CLEET authority, see 70 O.S. § 3311.16
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 32.15 RECORD.
   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police officer,
which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the possession
of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto shall be, by
the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge of the Chief
of Police. The Chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose,
make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof. If the property is sold, he or she shall
also include the date of sale, name and address of the purchaser, and the
amount for which it was sold.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-1)
§ 32.16 DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY IN POSSESSION OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized to dispose of personal property or
money or legal tender as provided in this section, which has come into his or
her possession in any manner if:
      (1)   The owner of the personal property or money or legal tender is
unknown or has not claimed the property;
      (2)   The property or money or legal tender has been in the custody of
the Chief of Police for at least six months; and
      (3)   The property or money or legal tender or any part thereof is no
longer needed to be held as evidence or for any other purpose in connection
with any litigation.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall file an application in the County District
Court requesting the authority of said Court to conduct a sale of such personal
property which has a fair market value of more than its face value. The Chief
of Police shall attach to his or her application a list describing such
property including any identifying numbers and marks, the date said property
came into his or her possession, and the name of the owner and the person in
last possession, if different, and his or her address, if known. The Court
shall set said application for hearing not less than ten days nor more than 20
days after filing of said application.
   (C)   In any instance where said property has an actual or apparent value of
more than $25, at least ten days prior to the date of said hearing, notice of
said hearing shall be sent by certified mail to each owner at his or her
address as listed in said application. If the owner of any property with an
actual or apparent value exceeding $500 is unable to be served notice by said
certified mail, notice shall be provided by one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county. Said notice shall contain a brief
description of the property of said owner and the place and date of the
hearing. Said notice shall be posted at the assigned place for the posting of
municipal notices, and at two other public places in the municipality.
   (D)   If no owner appears and establishes ownership to said property at the
hearing, the Court shall enter an order authorizing the Chief of Police to sell
said personal property for cash to the highest bidder, after at least five
days’ notice of said sale has been published. The Chief of Police shall make a
return of said sale and the order of the Court confirming said sale shall vest
title to said property in the purchaser. After payment of court costs and other
expenses, the remainder of money received from the sale of said personal
property shall be deposited in the Municipal General Fund.
   (E)   All monies or legal tender which has come into the possession of the
Chief of Police pursuant to the circumstances provided for in division (A)(1)
of this section shall be transferred by the Chief of Police to the Municipal
Clerk for deposit in the Municipal General Fund. Prior to any such transfer,
the Chief of Police shall file an application in the District Court requesting
the Court to enter an order authorizing him or her to transfer said money for
deposit in the Municipal General Fund. The application shall describe the money
or legal tender, any serial numbers, the date the same came into his or her
possession, and the name of the owner and his or her address, if known. Upon
filing the application which may be joined with an application as described in
division (B) of this section, a hearing shall be set not less than ten days nor
more than 20 days from the filing of the application. Notice of said hearing
shall be given as provided for in division (C) of this section. The notice
shall state that upon failure of anyone to appear to prove ownership to said
money or legal tender, the Court shall order the same to be deposited in the
Municipal General Fund. The notice may be combined with a notice to sell
personal property as provided for in division (B) of this section. If no one
appears to claim and prove ownership to said money or legal tender at the
hearing, the Court shall order the same to be transferred to the Municipal
General Fund as provided in this division (E).
   (F)   (1)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dangerous
or deadly weapons, narcotic or poisonous drugs, explosives, or any property of
any kind or character, the possession of which is prohibited by law. By order
of the Trial Court, any such property filed as an exhibit or held by the town
shall be destroyed or sold or disposed of, pursuant to the conditions
prescribed in such order.
      (2)   Limitation of liability: neither the town, nor any of its officers,
agents or employees, shall be liable from any actions taken by any person
concerning the receipt, storage or disposition of any personal property.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-2) (Ord. 352, passed 7-10-2014)
§ 32.17 PROPERTY FOUND BY PRIVATE PERSON.
   Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or
employee, which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if not
claimed or identified within 30 days, shall, within ten additional days
thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him or her, and a record
of such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request return of the
property to him or her within such additional ten days, then the Chief of
Police shall sell the property as if it had been found by a public official or
employee, or on instruction by the Board of Trustees deliver it to some
department or office of the town government for its use.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-3)
§ 32.18 RECOVERY BY OWNER.
   If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor shall
be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim being submitted and approved
by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-4)
CHAPTER 33: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Created
   
33.02   Volunteer Department
   
33.03   Fire Chief; general provisions
   
33.04   Fire Chief; duties and responsibilities
   
33.05   Assistant Chief
   
33.06   Secretary-Treasurer
   
33.07   Members; benefits
   
33.08   Firemen’s Relief and Pension Fund
   
33.09   Bylaws
   
33.10   Duties of Department
   
33.11   Obstructing firefighters
   
33.12   Accidents
   
33.13   Arson investigation
   
33.14   Code inspection
   
33.15   Right of entry
   
33.16   Duty to inspect
   
33.17   Records and reports
   
33.18   Regulations; amendments
   
33.19   Violation; penalty
   
33.20   Service outside town limits
Ambulance Service
   
33.35   Established
   
33.36   Rates
   
33.37   Billing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 CREATED.
   There shall be a Fire Department, the head of which shall be the Fire Chief.
The Fire Chief and the Assistant Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Town
Administrator. All members shall be nominated by the Fire Chief and appointed
by the Board of Trustees, but any member may be dismissed by a majority vote of
the members of the Board of Trustees. The Assistant Chief shall hold his or her
office for a period of one year and until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
§ 33.02 VOLUNTEER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Number of firefighters. The Fire Department of the town is a Volunteer
Fire Department which has in its employ not more than 12 full-time salaried
firefighters (if any), and it shall be comprised of not less than 12 nor more
than 20 volunteer firefighters.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER. One who is enrolled as a member of the Fire
Department and who serves in such capacity without receiving a regular salary.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)
§ 33.03 FIRE CHIEF; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Appointment and qualification.
      (1)   Appointment. The head of the Fire Department, being the Town
Administrator, will be the Fire Chief who will be appointed by the Board of
Trustees for an indefinite term, and will be removable by a majority vote of
the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Experience required. No person shall be eligible for the office of
Fire Chief who shall not have had the experience required by law or required by
the Board of Trustees as an actual firefighter or training sufficient to
qualify as such.
   (B)   Benefits. The Fire Chief will be a part-time employee of the town and
will be compensated as the Board may provide by resolution. The Fire Chief will
be paid as any other firefighter for any on call time or active duty time. The
Fire Chief will not be eligible for health insurance or any other benefits
provided by the town except retirement as provided all the firefighters through
the Oklahoma State Firefighters Pension and Retirement System.
   (C)   Supervision of Department. The Chief of the Fire Department shall have
supervision and control of the Fire Department, subject to the supervision and
control of the Town Administrator. The Chief may assign duties to other members
of the Department.
   (D)   Control at fires. The Chief of the Fire Department or the person
acting in his or her absence shall have full power, control and command over
all persons present at fires; and he or she shall direct the use of all fire
apparatus and equipment, and command all firefighters in the discharge of their
duties. He or she shall take such measures as may be necessary in the
preservation and protection of property and the extinguishing of fires.
   (E)   Absence of Chief; police aid. The Fire Chief’s duties shall be
performed by such officer as may be designated as Assistant Chief in the
absence of the Chief and such officer or assistant may call in and require the
help of the Police Department if such be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. 302, passed 3-22-2001)
§ 33.04 FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A) Operation and training. The Chief shall be held responsible for the
general condition and efficient operation of the Department, the training of
members and the performance of all other duties imposed upon him or her.
   (B)   Inspection of water sources. The Chief shall inspect the Department,
the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at least twice
each year, and more often if required by the Board of Trustees or the
department head having charge of said particular department.
   (C)   Library of publications. The Chief shall maintain a library or file of
publications on fire prevention and fire protection, and shall make use of it
to the best advantage of all members.
   (D)   The Chief shall in a time of distress or civil disorder work with
civil defense units in enforcing protection for the inhabitants of the town as
may be required.
   (E)   Attendance at fires. The Chief shall make effort to attend all fires
and direct the officers and members in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   Citizen information; fire protection. The Chief shall see that
citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the community and on the
activities of the Department and make recommendations for the reduction of
insurance costs whereby the improvement of fire protection may be promoted.
   (G)   Inventory of equipment.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall have supervisory control and shall be
responsible for all firefighting equipment of every kind or nature, including
trucks, ladders, hose, chemicals and the like, and he or she shall account for
all such property as may come into his or her hands during his or her term of
office.
      (2)   He or she shall make an inventory at the time of taking office and
shall receipt his or her predecessor for all property listed in such inventory.
At the time of taking the inventory he or she, together with the committee of
said Board of Trustees having supervision of the Fire Department, shall make an
appraisal of all such property, making proper allowances for depreciation.
      (3)   Before turning over the office to a successor, the Fire Chief shall
check the inventory so made and if the same be entered and incorrect, he or she
shall relate such facts to the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   The Fire Chief shall take such inventory annually if he or she be
reappointed to this office.
   (H)   Authority of Chief and Assistant Chief. The Fire Chief and assistant
Fire Chief are hereby given all the authority of police officers of the town in
the discharge of their duties and are authorized to make arrest for
interference with the operation of said Fire Department, when on active duty.
   (I)   Registration of members. It is the duty of the Chief of said Fire
Department to register with the Town Clerk the names of each and every member
of the Fire Department, together with a full and complete list of the length of
service of said member in the Fire Department heretofore existing.
   (J)   Requests for purchases. When an apparatus or hose or other appliances
or supplies are required for the use of said Fire Department, it shall be the
duty of the Chief of the said Fire Department to request a purchase order
following purchasing protocols.
   (K)   Personnel file. The Fire Chief will keep a personnel file on all
department personnel. In this file will be each individual’s training records
and any correspondence regarding the individual..
   (L)   Talks on fire prevention. The Fire Chief will be available to give
talks to any service organization, school or civic group regarding firefighting
and fire prevention.
   (M)   Annual activity reports filed with state. The Chief shall file the
appropriate activity report forms with the office of the State Fire Marshal in
Oklahoma City on an annual basis. The activity report forms shall be designed
by the State Fire Marshal and shall include, but not be limited to, the amount
of property and vehicle fire loss, types of fires, inspections and
investigations. The report shall include notification of all fire related
civilian deaths and injuries in the respective jurisdiction and of firefighter
deaths in the line of duty and of firefighter injuries in the line of duty
requiring the services of a hospital or physician or both.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4) (Ord. 288, passed 1-9-1997; Ord. 302, passed 3-22-2001)
§ 33.05 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on duty shall command the
Department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5)
§ 33.06 SECRETARY-TREASURER.
   (A)   One member selected by the Fire Department shall be Secretary-
Treasurer.
   (B)   His or her duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      (3)   Collecting any money due the Department by the members.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-6)
§ 33.07 MEMBERS; BENEFITS.
   (A)   Selection criteria. The Volunteer Fire Department shall be selected
upon their ability to meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Their knowledge of firefighting;
      (2)   Their ability to lead; and
      (3)   Their knowledge of firefighting equipment.
   (B)   New members.
      (1)   Probation. All new members shall be on probation for one year after
their appointment.
      (2)   Approval. New volunteer members upon completion of their probation
period must be approved by the majority of the Fire Department and per state
statute.
   (C)   Dues; fees. All dues and fees which are required to be paid for
membership in the State and National Firemen’s Association shall be paid by the
town upon allowance or duly verified claim filed by the Chief of said
Department.
   (D)   Compensation; reimbursement for run time.
      (1)   Resolution of Board. The Board of Trustees shall by motion or
resolution establish the compensation to be paid the Chief and all other
members of the Fire Department of the town.
      (2)   Payment for service only. Nothing herein shall be construed as
entitling any member of the Fire Department to any fees unless actually present
at and assisting in the extinguishing of the fire.
   (E)   Benefits. No benefits shall be paid for less than one week.
   (F)   Roster. A roster of members of the town’s Fire Department shall be
kept in the office of the Town Clerk and the date of enlistment in company of
each member.(Prior Code, § 5-2-7)
§ 33.08 FIREMEN’S RELIEF AND PENSION FUND.
   There is hereby created a Board of Trustees of the Firemen’s Relief and
Pension Fund of the town, composed of the Board of Trustees, Town Clerk, Town
Treasurer and two members of the Town Fire Department approved by the Board of
Trustees as is provided for in 11 O.S. §§ 49-100.1 et seq., and acts amendatory
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-8)
§ 33.09 BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the Department shall include the following.
   (A)   Response to alarms. A volunteer firefighter is required, when
notified, to respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   Meetings and schools. He or she is required to be present at all
regular meetings, call meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighters.
   (C)   Business meeting. There shall be at least one regular business meeting
each month.
   (D)   Absences. Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in
succession or three unexcused absences in a period of three months will be
dropped from the Fire Department rolls.
   (E)   Absences from town. Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an
extended period of time will be required to notify the Chief.
   (F)   Refusal to train. Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend
training classes provided for him or her will be dropped.
   (G)   Dismissal; offenses. Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall
be dropped from the rolls for the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
      (5)   Conviction of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-9)
§ 33.10 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department, among others, to extinguish
fires; to rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer
first aid to, persons injured in or about burning structures, or elsewhere in
case of an emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless otherwise
provided, to enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention, and
safety of persons from fire, in theaters, stores, and other public buildings.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-10)
§ 33.11 OBSTRUCTING FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Prohibited. Any person who shall in any manner obstruct or interfere
with said Fire Department in the discharge of its duty while a fire is in
progress or who shall hinder, obstruct or delay or prevent said Fire Department
from getting to a fire in progress or who shall perform any act tending to
interfere with the free action of said volunteer Fire Department shall be
guilty of an offense and shall be punished accordingly.
   (B)   Right-of-way. All motor equipment and all personal cars of Department
members shall have right-of-way over all other traffic when responding to an
alarm.
   (C)   Duty of drivers. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any
automobile or other vehicle closer than 150 feet from the premises upon which
there may be a fire, while the Fire Department is operating on said premises.
It shall also be unlawful for any person to drive and operate an automobile
following a fire truck, while on the way to a fire, closer than a block from
such fire truck.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire hydrants, see §
51.16
§ 33.12 ACCIDENTS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall report all accidents to members of
the Fire Department to the Secretary of the Board of Trustees of the Firemen’s
Relief and Pension Fund, in writing, within three days after the occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-12)
§ 33.13 ARSON INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Requirement to investigate. The Chief is hereby required to assist the
proper authorities in suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or
causing to be investigated cause, origin and circumstances of all fires.
   (B)   Notification of authorities; evidence. The Chief shall see that each
fire is carefully investigated to determine its cause, and in the case of
suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify proper authorities and secure and
preserve all possible evidence for future use in the case.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-13)
§ 33.14 CODE INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to inspect or cause
to be inspected by the Fire Department, officers or members, as often as may be
necessary, but not less than twice a year in outlying districts and four times
a year in the closely built portions of the town, all buildings, premises and
public thoroughfares, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be
corrected any condition liable to cause violations of the provisions of intent
of any ordinance of the town affecting fire hazards.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-14)
§ 33.15 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Right of ingress. The Fire Chief or his or her authorized deputy or
assistant shall have the right of ingress and egress on all real property
within the town limits for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed upon
him or her.
   (B)   Inspections; notices. The Chief is hereby empowered to enter any and
all buildings and premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making
inspections and to serve written notice upon the owner or occupant to abate,
within a specified time, any and all fire hazards that may be found. Any person
so served with a notice to abate any fire hazard shall comply therewith and
promptly notify the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-15)
§ 33.16 DUTY TO INSPECT.
   Whenever any officer or member shall find in any building, or upon any
premises or other place, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous
accumulation of rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes,
shavings or any other highly inflammable materials especially liable to fire,
and which is so situated as to endanger property, or shall find obstructions to
or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows, liable to interfere
with the operation of the Fire Department, or egress of occupants, in case of
fire, he or she shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and such order
shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or occupant of such premises or
buildings subject to appeal within 24 hours to the Board of Trustees who shall
within three days review such order and file their decision thereon, and unless
the order is revoked shall remain in full force and promptly be obeyed by such
owner or occupant.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-16)
§ 33.17 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information about the
work of the Department, and shall make such reports as the Board of Trustees
may require. Reports shall be filed with the town offices.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-17)
§ 33.18 REGULATIONS; AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change
regulations relating to the Fire Department, its organization, and operation
from time to time. The Chief may recommend such regulations and changes therein
to the Board at any time.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-18)
§ 33.19 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any of
its sections shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be
punished accordingly as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-19)
§ 33.20 SERVICE OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Contracts or agreements. The town is hereby authorized and empowered
to enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private
corporations or associations, or political subdivisions of the state for fire
protection outside the corporate limits of said town, and to contract to
provide protection jointly with other organizations and municipal subdivisions
of the state.
   (B)   Authority to answer calls. The Fire Department of the town is hereby
authorized and directed to answer all outside calls within a distance of 25
miles from the nearest fire station; unless in the opinion of the Fire Chief it
is inexpedient to do so on account of another fire in the town, broken
apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways, or other physical conditions.
   (C)   Benefits. All firefighters of the Fire Department of the town
attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside the
corporate limits of the town, as herein provided, shall be considered as
serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were serving within
the corporate limits of the town, and said firefighter shall be entitled to all
the benefits of any Firemen’s Pension and Relief Fund in the same manner as if
the firefighting or fire prevention work were being done within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (D)   Liability. The Fire Department of the town, answering any fire alarm,
or call, or performing any fire prevention services outside the corporate
limits of the town, shall be considered as an agent of the state, and acting
solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and said municipality shall not be
liable in damages for any act of commission, omission or negligence while
answering or returning from any fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire
prevention work under and by virtue of divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-20)
AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 33.35 ESTABLISHED.
   The town shall establish an ambulance service in accordance with 63 O.S. §§
1-2509 and 1-2513.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 33.36 RATES.
   The rates for ambulance service shall be set by ordinance or resolution by
the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 33.37 BILLING.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire/EMS Director to certify charges for
ambulance runs to the town offices who shall have the responsibility for
billing and collecting for the services so certified, and to deposit the same
to the proper fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE
Section
Town Finances
   
34.01   Annual budget
   
34.02   Fund accounting
   
34.03   Deposit and investment of funds
   
34.04   Contractual services defined
   
34.05   Purchases and contracts
   
34.06   Sales
   
34.07   Purchases or sales without competitive bidding
   
34.08   Administrative expenditures
Purchases and Disbursements
   
34.20   Payroll disbursements
   
34.21   Competitive bidding
   
34.22   Purchases of goods, services and capital
   
34.23   Debt service
   
34.24   Interfund transfers
   
34.25   Petty cash
   
34.26   Financial reporting
   
34.27   Applicable to public trusts
TOWN FINANCES
§ 34.01 ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The town shall prepare, approve and amend its annual budget in accordance
with the provisions of 11 O.S. §§ 17-201 through 17-216.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, Municipal Budget Act (§§ 17-201—20-106); O.S. §§ 17-217,
Definitions
    Applicable to Purpose-Based Budgets (Laws 2006, HB 2796, c. 314, § 4,
emerg. eff. July 1, 2006); 17-218, Purpose-Based Budget Procedures (Laws 2006,
HB 2796, c. 314, § 5); 17-301,
    Municipal Fiscal Impact Act (Laws 2010, HB 3054, c. 372, § 1, eff. November
1, 2010)
§ 34.02 FUND ACCOUNTING.
   The town will account for all monies or resources received or earned and
expended by funds as the Board of Trustees may require pursuant to the
provisions of 11 O.S. §§ 17-207 and 17-212.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 34.03 DEPOSIT AND INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.    (A)   Deposits. The Town Treasurer
shall deposit daily all monies received in accordance with the provisions of 62
O.S. § 517.3.   (B)   Investments. The Town Treasurer shall make investments
from deposited money, as authorized by the Board of Trustees, in the types of
investments and manner provided for in 62 O.S. § 348.1.
   (C)   Insurance. The Town Treasurer shall ensure that the deposits and
investments are adequately secured with appropriate federal insurance, pledged
collateral or other security in accordance with the applicable laws noted in
divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 34.04 CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES.
      (1)   Services performed for the town by persons not in the employment of
the town, and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities
in connection with said service under express or implied contract.
      (2)   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES include travel; freight; express; parcel post;
postage; telephone; telegraph; utilities; rents; printing and binding; repairs,
alterations, and maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets and bridges, and
other physical facilities of the town; and other service performed for the town
by persons not in the employment of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 34.05 PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Conflict of interest. The town officials and employees will comply
with the conflict of interest provisions of 11 O.S. § 8-113 when making
purchases or entering into contracts on behalf of the town.
   (B)   Purchases.      (1)   Authorization. Purchases shall be authorized in
accordance with the provisions of 62 O.S. §§ 310.1(A) and 310.1(B).
      (2)   Board of Trustees. All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment,
and contractual services for the offices, departments and agencies of the town
government shall be made by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Claim vouchers. Invoices and/or the related purchase orders shall also
be signed by at least one member of the Town Board of Trustees and included on
a claims list for full board approval.
   (D)   Payments. Payments of invoices shall be processed in accordance with
the provisions of 11 O.S. § 17-102 and all town checks will have at least three
signatures of the Town Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 34.06 SALES.
   (A)   Surplus or obsolete equipment; procedure. No surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials or equipment may be sold until the Board of Trustees shall
have declared them obsolete or surplus. Surplussed supplies, materials and
equipment may be sold by the Board of Trustees in whatever manner it decides.
   (B)   Sale of machinery and equipment.
      (1)   Authorization. The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to
use any tools, apparatus, machinery, equipment or vehicle belonging to the
town, the original cost of which exceeded $500, as a trade in on a cash
purchase of any other tools, apparatus, machinery, equipment or vehicle.
      (2)   Procedures. The following procedures shall be used for the sale, by
the Town Board of Trustees, of any tools, apparatus, machinery, equipment or
vehicle, the original cost of which exceeded $500, belonging to the town:
         (a)   Notice of sale. The Town Board of Trustees shall give notice of
such sale by publication in a newspaper of general paid circulation in the
county for two successive weekly issues;
         (b)   Manner of bidding. Bids for such tools, apparatus, machinery,
equipment or vehicle on sale shall be in writing, sealed and delivered to the
office of the Clerk of the town, or a designated employee;
         (c)   Opening of bids. At the next regular meeting, or a special
meeting, after the expiration of 15 days from the date of first publication of
notice of the sale, the Town Board of Trustees shall open such bids and award
such tools, apparatus, machinery, equipment or vehicle to the highest and best
bidder with the option of rejecting all bids; and
         (d)   Auction. The Town Board of Trustees may hold a public auction in
lieu of advertising for sealed bids as provided above. Such auction shall be
advertised as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6) (Ord. 285, passed 4-9-1996; Ord. 347, passed 10-10-2013)
§ 34.07 PURCHASES OR SALES WITHOUT COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   Purchases. The following may be purchased without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding:
      (1)   Under $1,000. Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual
services whose cost does not exceed $1,000 in a single transaction;
      (2)   Single dealer. Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual
services which can be furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a
uniform price wherever bought;
      (3)   Unit of government. Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual
services purchased from another unit of government at a price deemed below that
obtainable from private dealers, including government surplus;
      (4)   Public utility services. Contractual services (natural gas,
telephone services and the like) purchased from a public utility at a price or
rate determined by the State Corporation Commission or other government
authority;
      (5)   State regulated price. Supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services when purchased at a price not exceeding a price set
therefor by the state purchasing agency or any other state agency hereafter
authorized to regulate prices for things purchased by the state (whether such
price is determined by a contract negotiated with a vendor or otherwise);
      (6)   Professional contractual services. Contractual services of a
professional nature, such as engineering, architectural and medical services;
and
      (7)   Public construction contracts. All public construction contracts
shall be awarded to the lowest and best competitive bidder as provided by law.
   (B)   Sales. The Board of Trustees may sell, without giving an opportunity
for competitive bidding, supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price
at least as great as that paid by the town for the same.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7)
§ 34.08 ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURES.
   The Town Administrator may spend up to $5,000 and up to $25,000 for energy,
without further authorization of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 349, passed 11-12-2013)
PURCHASES AND DISBURSEMENTS
§ 34.20 PAYROLL DISBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   For all employees and officers of the town, a documented record shall
be maintained in a personnel file of the authorized rate of pay or salary for
each employee or officer.
   (B)   (1)   For each pay period, a documented record of time worked and
leave taken shall be prepared, in the form of time sheets, cards or logs, for
each employee and officer to be paid. For employees exempt from overtime
provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, the record may exclude time worked.
      (2)   Such record of time worked and leave taken shall be verified as to
its accuracy in writing by the employee or officer, supervisor or department
head if applicable, and the Town Clerk or designee.
   (C)   Upon verification of the work record, a payroll statement or register,
including the amount of gross pay, authorized deductions and net pay, shall be
prepared and submitted to the town’s chief executive officer for review and
written approval.
   (D)   Upon approval of the payroll statement or register, the net payroll
warrants shall be prepared along with warrants for payment of related payroll
taxes and other payroll benefits, required by law or contract.
   (E)   The warrants shall be presented to the Town Treasurer along with the
approved payroll statement or register. The Treasurer shall compare the
warrants to the payroll statement or register and verify their accuracy. Upon
verification, the Treasurer and the Clerk shall sign the warrants and prepare
them for distribution. In addition, the Treasurer shall prepare or cause to be
prepared a warrant register.
   (F)   No payroll related encumbrances are required to be recovered in the
budgetary accounting records as long as the payroll costs are recorded as
expenditures at the time they become due and payable. However, no payroll costs
may be incurred or paid if they exceed the available appropriation for the
accounts to be charged at the legal level of control.
   (G)   The Town Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the payroll costs incurred and/or paid for the
pay period.
   (H)   A copy of the payroll statement, register or payroll check register
may be provided to the Board of Trustees for informational purposes; however,
Board of Trustees approval is not required prior to the payment of payroll
related costs if incurred and paid in accordance with the provisions above.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. 311, passed 9-9-2004)
§ 34.21 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   The town shall adhere to the provisions of 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq.,
when determining when competitive bidding is required and the manner in which
competitive bids will be obtained.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) of this section,
public trusts created pursuant to 60 O.S. § 176, of which the town is
beneficiary, shall also follow the competitive bidding provisions of 60 O.S. §
176(G)cite.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2) (Ord. 311, passed 9-9-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Purchases or sales without competitive bidding, see §
34.07
§ 34.22 PURCHASES OF GOODS, SERVICES AND CAPITAL.
   (A) The town designates the Town Administrator as purchasing officers
empowered to purchase or contract against budget appropriation accounts.
   (B)   For all purchases of goods, services or capital (all purchases or
disbursements other than payroll and debt service related) over a certain
amount, requisition for, purchase orders or contracts shall be prepared and
approved, in writing, by a designated purchasing officer, prior to the time the
purchase commitment is made.
   (C)   For all purchases or contracts for goods, services or capital
over$5,000 or $25,000 emergency, Board of Trustees approval shall be obtained
prior to the time the commitment is made, and such approval shall be recorded
in the minutes of the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   (1)   For all purchases of goods, services or capital over a certain
amount, the approved requisition, purchase order or contract shall be forwarded
to an officer or employee charged with the appropriation and expenditure
records, who shall determine that there exists available appropriation in the
accounts to be charged. Upon such determination, the officer or employee shall
attest to that fact in writing.
      (2)   If appropriation is not available for the proposed purchase or
commitment, the purchase or commitment shall not proceed until budget
amendments are authorized to provide sufficient appropriation.
      (3)   Upon approval of the purchasing agent and officer or employee
charged with keeping the appropriation and expenditure records, the original
copy of the purchase order shall be filed in a pending file awaiting delivery
of the goods or services.
   (E)   (1)   After satisfactory delivery of the merchandise or completion of
contract provisions, an invoice or claim form shall be obtained adequately
documenting requests for payment. The officer or employee receiving
satisfactory delivery of merchandise or contract service shall acknowledge such
fact by signing the invoice, claim form delivery ticket or receiving advice.
      (2)   The invoice or claim form, along with the written acknowledgment of
receipt shall be forwarded to the officer or employee responsible for
processing accounts payable who shall review the invoice for accuracy and
propriety, including comparison to the authorized requisition, purchase order
or contract, if applicable.
      (3)   Upon completion of the accounts payable officer review, the
invoices (except those to be paid with federal or state monies) along with the
related supporting documents shall be attached to a copy of the purchase order
and shall be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval during the next
regular or special meeting.
      (4)   Upon completion of the accounts payable officer review, invoices to
be paid with federal or state monies shall be submitted along with the related
supporting documents to the town’s chief executive officer for approval,
without further approval of the Board of Trustees, in order to allow the town
to distribute federal and state funds within the time frame required by the
granting agency.
   (F)   (1)   Upon approval of the invoices or claims for payment, warrants or
other payment documents as authorized by state law shall be prepared and
submitted to the Town Treasurer, along with a copy of the approved invoice or
claims listing.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall compare the warrants or other payment documents
to the invoice or claims listing and verify their accuracy. Upon verification,
the Treasurer and the Clerk and Mayor shall sign the warrants or other
documents and prepare them for distribution. In addition, the Treasurer shall
prepare or cause to be prepared a check warrant register.
   (G)   The Town Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the purchases and cash disbursements incurred
and paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3) (Ord. 311, passed 9-9-2004)
§ 34.23 DEBT SERVICE.
   (A)   All long term indebtedness, in the form of bonds, notes or lease
purchase obligations, shall only be incurred in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Once lawfully incurred, payments of principal and interest on the
bonds or notes and payments on the lease purchase obligations shall be paid in
accordance with the terms as specified in the bond indenture, note agreement or
lease purchase contract by the office of the Town Treasurer without further
approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The manner of payment shall be consistent with the manner of payment
of purchases of goods, services or capital as described in §
34.22(F) of this subchapter. The office of the Town Treasurer shall record or
cause to be recorded in the appropriate journals and ledgers the debt service
payments and maintain current records of the remaining amount of indebtedness.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4) (Ord. 311, passed 9-9-2004)
§ 34.24 INTERFUND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   All transfers of resources between funds (both operating and residual
equity transfer) shall only be made in accordance with Board of Trustees
appropriations. Such appropriations shall be contained in the original or
amended budget of the town.
   (B)   Once lawfully appropriated, interfund transfer payments may be made by
the Town Treasurer or his or her designee without further Board of Trustees
approval. Such transfers, however, may not exceed the amount of lawfully
appropriated.
   (C)   The manner of payment shall be consistent with the manner used for the
payment of purchase of goods, services and capital as described in §
34.22(F) of this subchapter.
   (D)   The Town Treasurer or his or her designee shall record or cause to be
recorded in the appropriate journals and ledgers these interfund transfers.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-5) (Ord. 311, passed 9-9-2004)
§ 34.25 PETTY CASH.
   (A)   As provided for in 11 O.S. § 17-102(D), the municipality may have
petty cash accounts for use in making certain small payments for costs incurred
in operating the municipality.
   (B)   Each petty cash account established shall require Board of Trustees
approval, including the amount of the petty cash imprest balance. However, in
no case, should the imprest balance exceed $390.
   (C)   The petty cash accounts shall be reimbursed by utilizing properly
itemized invoices or petty cash voucher slips and by then processing the
reimbursement in the manner used for payment of purchases of goods, services
and capital as described in §
34.22 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-6) (Ord. 311, passed 9-9-2004)
§ 34.26 FINANCIAL REPORTING.
   The Town Treasurer shall prepare a monthly budget status report in
accordance with the detail of budgetary accounts in the annual fiscal year
budgets. The report shall be placed on the agenda for Board of Trustees
acknowledgment at the first meeting following the close of the previous month.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-7) (Ord. 311, passed 9-9-2004)
§ 34.27 APPLICABLE TO PUBLIC TRUSTS.
   (A)   For all public trusts created pursuant to 60 O.S. §§ 176 through 180,
for which the town is beneficiary and for which the trust’s governing body
(Treasurer) is comprised entirely of members of the Town Board of Trustees, the
above noted requirements of this chapter shall apply.
   (B)   For the purposes of “public trusts”, as used in division (A) of this
section, the terms “governing body” shall mean “Board of Trustees of the
trust”, “chief executive officer” shall mean “trust manager” as appointed by
the Trustees, “Town Treasurer” shall mean “trust treasurer” as appointed by the
trustees or required by the trust indenture.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-8) (Ord. 311, passed 9-9-2004)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
Sales Tax
   
35.001   Citation
   
35.002   Definitions
   
35.003   Tax imposed; rate; exemptions
   
35.004   Effective date
   
35.005   Purpose of revenues
   
35.006   Classification of taxpayers
   
35.007   Subsisting state permits
   
35.008   Tax due date
   
35.009   Payment of tax
   
35.010   Tax constitutes prior claim
   
35.011   Collection by vendor
   
35.012   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
35.013   Interest and penalties
   
35.014   Erroneous payments; claims for refunds
   
35.015   Fraudulent returns
   
35.016   Records confidential
   
35.017   Amendments
   
35.018   Provisions cumulative
Use Tax
   
35.030   Tax imposed
   
35.031   Exemptions
Utility Tax
   
35.045   Annual tax imposed
   
35.046   Application of tax
   
35.047   Term; payment; disposition of revenue
   
35.048   Failure to pay; penalty
   
35.049   Tax constitutes prior lien
Hotel Tax
   
35.060   Citation and codification
   
35.061   Subsisting state permits
   
35.062   Effective date and termination
   
35.063   Definitions
   
35.064   Use of funds
   
35.065   Tax levied
   
35.066   Exemptions
   
35.067   Proof of exemption required
   
35.068   Tax to be designated
   
35.069   Operator responsibility for collection
   
35.070   Discount
   
35.071   Records
   
35.072   Returns
   
35.073   Payment of tax
   
35.074   Bond required
   
35.075   Assessment and determination of tax
   
35.076   Refunds
   
35.077   Notices
   
35.078   Remedies exclusive
   
35.079   Treasurer; powers
   
35.080   Registration certificates; certificates of authority
   
35.081   Interest
   
35.082   Records confidential
   
35.083   Fraudulent returns
   
35.084   Amendments
   
35.085   Provisions cumulative
   
35.086   Provisions severable
   
35.087   Payment of legal fees
SALES TAX
§ 35.001 CITATION.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “Hennessey Sales Tax
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-1)
§ 35.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Statute adopted. The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained
in the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1352 et seq., are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of the town’s sales tax ordinance.
   (B)   Tax Collector defined. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the town government or the official
agency of the state duly designated according to law or contract authorized by
law to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-2)
§ 35.003 TAX IMPOSED; RATE; EXEMPTIONS.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 4% upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the State Sales Tax Code. Said
tax has been approved by a majority of the registered voters of the town voting
on same in elections conducted in the manner prescribed by state law.
Exemptions from such taxes shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-3) (Ord. 298, passed 7-19-2000)
§ 35.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Approval of voters. This subchapter shall become effective as to each
cent tax after approval of a majority of the registered voters of the town
voting on the ordinance in the manner prescribed by 11 O.S. § 16-112.
   (B)   Rate; purpose of revenues. Ordinances amending the tax rate or purpose
of revenues shall become and be effective on and after the first day of the
next quarter following an election in the town whereat a majority of the voters
of the town approved the assessment or the tax purposes.
   (C)   Elections called. Elections shall be called by proclamation of the
Mayor pursuant to resolution passed and approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Redirection of tax monies. An ordinance redirecting existing sales tax
shall become and be effective on and after the first day of the first calendar
month following an election in the town whereat a majority of the voters of the
town approve the redirection of the existing sales tax herein provided for.
Said election shall be called by proclamation of the president of the Board of
Trustees pursuant to resolution passed and approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-4) (Ord. 309, passed 9-16-2003)
§ 35.005 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   (A)   General purpose. It is the purpose of the sales tax levied in this
subchapter to provide revenues for the support of the functions of the
municipal government of the town.
   (B)   Street improvement; capital outlay. The town shall use 0.5% of the
proceeds exclusively as follows:
      (1)   Twenty-five percent of the proceeds is to be used for street
improvement; and
      (2)   Twenty-five percent of the proceeds is to be used for capital
outlay in the following departments of the town:
         (a)   General government;
         (b)   Streets;
         (c)   Police Department;
         (d)   Water;
         (e)   Sewer;
         (f)   Parks;
         (g)   Sanitation;
         (h)   Library;
         (i)   Fire Department;
         (j)   Planning and zoning;
         (k)   Swimming pool; and
         (l)   Cemetery.
   (C)   Ambulance and medical services; swimming pool. The town shall use a
further 1% of the proceeds exclusively, except as otherwise stated herein, as
follows:
      (1)   A part, being 0.75%, of the proceeds of the sales tax shall be used
to operate and maintain the town’s ambulance and emergency medical services;
or, to enter into a contract with a qualified vendor to perform ambulance and
medical services. Provided, that if there is more than $100,000 in the
ambulance and emergency medical services account, the Board of Trustees may
redirect the funds that are over $100,000 to other emergency services of the
town for capital outlay; and
      (2)   Another part, being 0.25%, of the proceeds of the tax shall be used
to fund the construction and equipping of a new municipal swimming pool and
infrastructure related thereto in the town and/or for the payment of debt
service in connection with obligations issued by the town and any public trust
having the town as beneficiary thereof to finance or refinance the referenced
expenditures and related costs.
   (D)   This division (D) shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of
Hennessey Sales Tax Ordinance of 2018”.
      (1)   Tax imposed. There is hereby imposed an excise tax of 0.5% (in
addition to any and all other excise taxes now in force) to be levied upon the
gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the State
Sales Tax Code.
      (2)   Purpose of revenues. It is hereby declared to be the purpose of
this division (D) to provide revenues to be used to fund the construction and
equipping of a new municipal swimming pool and infrastructure related thereto
in the town, and/or for the payment of debt service in connection with
obligations issued by the town and any public trust having the town as
beneficiary thereof to finance or refinance the referenced expenditures and
related costs.
      (3)   Effective date; termination date. The provisions of this division
(D) and the collection of the excise tax referenced herein shall become
effective on and after January 1, 2019, subject to approval by a majority of
the qualified electors of the town voting on the same in the manner prescribed
by law. The excise tax referenced herein shall be levied for a period of 15
years, and shall terminate on the earlier of the retirement of any indebtedness
issued in connection with the construction of the municipal swimming pool or
December 31, 2034.
      (4)   No repeal of tax. This division (D) and the excise tax levied
pursuant hereto shall not be repealed by the Board of Trustees of the town or
by referendum of the registered qualified voters of the town in the event the
proceeds of the referenced excise tax are being used or have been pledged by
the town or any public trust having the town as beneficiary for the purpose of
paying debt service on obligations issued by the town or any public trust
having the town as beneficiary.
      (5)   Subsisting state permits. All valid and subsisting permits to do
business issued by the State Tax Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax
Code are, for the purposes of this division, hereby ratified, confirmed and
adopted in lieu of any requirement for an additional the town permit for the
same purpose.
      (6)   Payment of tax. The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax
Collector at the time and in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the
state sales tax under the State Tax Law.
      (7)   This tax in addition to taxes currently levied; administrative
procedures. The tax levied hereby is in addition to any and all other excise
taxes levied or assessed by the town pursuant to existing ordinances (the
“prior ordinances”); provided, however, that those provisions of said prior
ordinances relating to Definitions; Tax Collector Defined; Classification of
Taxpayers; Subsisting State Permits; the portion of Tax Rate-Sales Subject to
Tax, pertaining to Sales Subject to Tax (not rate of Tax); the provisions of
said Prior Ordinances regarding Exemptions; the provisions of said Prior
Ordinances regarding Tax Due When-Returns-Records; the portion of said Prior
Ordinances regarding Tax Constitutes Debt; Vendor’s Duty to Collect Tax;
Returns and Remittances--Discounts; Interest and Penalties-Delinquency; Waiver
of Interest and Penalties; Erroneous Payments-Claim for Refund; Fraudulent
Returns; and Records Confidential shall apply to the excise tax levied and
assessed by this division (D). For purposes of this division (D), references in
prior ordinances, to specific provisions of the State Statutes shall be deemed
to be references to said statutory provisions, as amended.
      (8)   Amendments. The people of the town, by their approval of this
division (D) at the election hereinabove provided for, hereby authorize the
town by ordinance duly enacted to make such administrative and technical
changes or additions in the method and manner of administration and enforcing
this division (D) as may be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness or
in order to make the same consistent with the State Sales Tax Code, as amended,
except that the rate of the tax herein provided for shall not be changed
without approval of the qualified electors of the town as provided by law.
      (9)   Provisions cumulative. The provisions hereof shall be cumulative
and in addition to any and all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-5) (Ord. 309, passed 9-16-2003; Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012;
Ord. 370, passed 5-29-2018; Ord. 371, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 35.006 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Sales Tax
Code.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-6)
§ 35.007 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code are, for the purposes of this
subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-7)
§ 35.008 TAX DUE DATE.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the sales
tax law of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-8)
§ 35.009 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time and in
form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the sales tax law
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-9)
§ 35.010 TAX CONSTITUTES PRIOR CLAIM.
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-10)
§ 35.011 COLLECTION BY VENDOR.
   (A)   Duty to collect. The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the
consumer or user to the vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every
vendor in this town to collect, from the consumer or user, the full amount of
the tax levied by this subchapter, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or
practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Tax constitutes debt. Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or
the average equivalent thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added
such tax shall constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from
the consumer or user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in
the same manner as other debts.
   (C)   Failure to comply. A vendor, as defined herein, who willfully or
intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax
levied herein, or willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to
comply with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either
directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or part of the tax herein
levied, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any
statement which infers that he or she is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax
for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the
tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.012 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time, and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Sales Tax Code;
and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for collection of state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-12)
§ 35.013 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Statute adopted; delinquency. 68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made
a part of this subchapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in
amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases
of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this subchapter,
provided, that the failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by said article
shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency
continues for a period of five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his or her
claim to any discount allowed under said subchapter.
   (B)   Waiver. The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a taxpayer’s failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the state tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220; and to
accomplish the purposes of this section the applicable provisions of said 68
O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-13)
§ 35.014 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIMS FOR REFUNDS.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the purposes
of this section, the applicable provisions of said 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-14)
§ 35.015 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this subchapter, as hereby
amended, the willful failure, or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances therein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this subchapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, the offending taxpayer shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.016 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of of the State Sales Tax Code
and each section thereof is hereby adopted by reference and made duly effective
and applicable to administration of the town sales tax as if here set forth in
full.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-16)
§ 35.017 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the town, by their approval of this ordinance at the election
hereinabove provided, hereby authorize the Board of Trustees, by ordinances
duly enacted, to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in
the method and manner of administration and enforcing this subchapter as may be
necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness except that the rate of the tax
herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors
of the town as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-17)
§ 35.018 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-2A-18)
USE TAX
§ 35.030 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby levied, for the storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property purchased or brought into the town, a
use tax of 3.5% of the purchase price of such property.
      (2)   Such tax shall be paid by every person storing, using or otherwise
consuming within the town tangible personal property purchased or brought into
the town.
   (B)   The tax levied herein shall be paid at the time of importation or
storage of the property within the town and shall be assessed only on property
purchased outside the state; provided however, that the tax levied herein shall
not be levied against tangible personal property intended solely for use
outside the town but which is stored in the town pending shipment outside the
town or which is temporarily retained in the town for the purpose of
fabrication, repair, testing, alteration, maintenance or other service.
   (C)   Any person liable for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct
from such tax any local or municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or
services; provided, however, that the amount deducted shall not exceed the
amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by the town had been
levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(Prior Code, § 2-2B-1) (Ord. 299, passed 10-5-2000)
§ 35.031 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
35.030 shall not apply:
   (A)   Nonresident. In respect to the use of an article of tangible personal
property brought into the town by a nonresident individual visiting in this
town for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the town;
   (B)   Purchase for resale. In respect to the use of tangible personal
property purchased for resale before being used;
   (C)   Tax previously paid.
      (1)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
on which a tax equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma Use
Tax Code and the town ordinances has been paid by the person using such
tangible personal property in the town, whether such tax was levied under the
laws of the state or any other state or municipality of the United States; and
      (2)   If any article of tangible personal property has already been
subjected to a tax by the state or any other state or municipality in respect
to its sale or use in an amount less than the tax imposed by the Oklahoma Use
Tax Code, being O.S. §§ 68-1401 et seq., and the town ordinances, the
provisions of this subchapter shall also apply to it by a rate measured by the
difference only between the rate provided by both the Oklahoma Use Tax Code and
the town ordinances, and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or
use was computed; provided, however, that no credit shall be given for taxes
paid in another state or municipality if that state or municipality does not
grant like credit for taxes paid in the state and the town.
   (D)   Manufacturing and processing plants.
      (1)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used
by persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the town and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the town; provided, however, that
this exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is
incorporated into and is directly used in the process of manufacturing property
subject to taxation under the sales tax code for the town.
      (2)   The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those establishments
primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations and generally
recognized as such.
   (E)   Property exempt from taxation. In respect to the use of tangible
personal property now specifically exempted from taxation under the sales tax
code of the town;
   (F)   Property of intended resident. In respect to the use of any article of
tangible personal property brought into the town by an individual with intent
to become a resident of this town where such personal property is for such
individual’s personal use or enjoyment;
   (G)   Railroads. In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal
property used or to be used by railroads; or
   (H)   Livestock. In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and
brought into the town for feeding or breeding purposes, and which livestock is
later resold.
(Prior Code, § 2-2B-2) (Ord. 299, passed 10-5-2000)
UTILITY TAX
§ 35.045 ANNUAL TAX IMPOSED.
   From and after the effective date hereof, there is hereby levied and
assessed an annual tax of 2% upon the gross receipts from residential and
commercial sales of gas and/or electricity in said town, which tax shall be in
lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation or excise tax levied by such
town, all as provided by 68 O.S. §§ 2601 through 2605.
(Prior Code, § 2-2C-1) (Ord. 183, passed 9-5-1978; Ord. 346, passed 6-13-2013)
§ 35.046 APPLICATION OF TAX.
   The tax levied under §
35.045 of this subchapter shall, when levied, apply to all persons, firms,
associations or corporations engaged in the business of furnishing gas and/or
electricity within the town limits, except it shall not apply to any person,
firm, association or corporation operating under a valid franchise from said
town.
(Prior Code, § 2-2C-2) (Ord. 183, passed 9-5-1978; Ord. 346, passed 6-13-2013)
§ 35.047 TERM; PAYMENT; DISPOSITION OF REVENUE.
   The tax levied under §
35.045 of this subchapter shall be levied for a term of not less than one year
and shall be payable monthly and placed in the General Revenue Fund of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 2-2C-3)
§ 35.048 FAILURE TO PAY; PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such town, and
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 2-2C-4) (Ord. 183, passed 9-5-1978)
§ 35.049 TAX CONSTITUTES PRIOR LIEN.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all assets
located within the said town of any person, firm or corporation, including but
not limited to, a public service corporation, engaged in the business of
selling gas and/or electricity within the town limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-2C-5) (Ord. 183, passed 9-5-1978; Ord. 346, passed 6-13-2013)
HOTEL TAX
§ 35.060 CITATION AND CODIFICATION.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Town of Hennessey Hotel Tax
Ordinance of 2012”, and is hereinafter referred to as subchapter.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.061 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purposes of
this subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.062 EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION.
   This subchapter shall become and be effective on or after January 1, 2013,
subject to approval of a majority of the registered voters of the town, voting
on the same in the manner prescribed by law; provided that upon approval of the
voters as required above, this subchapter shall remain in effect and not be
repealed unless repealed by a majority of the registered voters of the town
voting to repeal the same in the manner as required by its approval.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.063 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. Any building or buildings, structures, trailer or other
facility in which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping
accommodations in which three or more rooms are used for the accommodation of
transient guests whether such rooms are in one or several structures. The term
shall include hotels, apartment hotels, motels, tourist homes, houses or
courts, lodging houses, bed and breakfast inns, inns, rooming houses, trailer
houses, trailer motels, apartments and sleeping rooms not occupied by
“permanent residents” and all other facilities where rooms or sleeping
accommodations or space is furnished for a consideration. The term shall not
include hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, university dormitories or other
educational or charitable institutions.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to use or possess any room or
rooms in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings, or
to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the
room or rooms.
   OCCUPANT. A person who for a consideration uses, possesses, or has the right
to the use or possess any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease, concession,
permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a hotel in this town, including, but not
limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
   RETURN. Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
   ROOM.
      (1)   Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel
which is available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other
than a place of assembly.
      (2)   As used herein, PLACE OF ASSEMBLY means a room or space which is
not capable of being occupied for lodging purposes and which is used for
educational, recreational, or amusement purposes and shall include: dance
halls; cabarets; night clubs; restaurants; any room or space for public or
private banquets, feasts, socials, card parties, or weddings; lodge and meeting
halls or rooms; skating rinks; gymnasiums; swimming pools; billiards, bowling,
and table tennis rooms; halls or rooms used for public or private catering
purposes; funeral parlors; markets; recreational rooms; concert halls;
broadcasting studios; and all other places of similar type of occupancy.
   TAX. The tax levied pursuant to this subchapter.
   TREASURER. The Treasurer of the Town of Hennessey.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.064 USE OF FUNDS.
   Funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter shall be set
aside and used exclusively for one or more of the following purposes:
   (A)   Encouraging, promoting and fostering conventions, conferences and
tourism development in the town;
   (B)   Promotion of cultural, recreational, commercial, industrial,
educational and economic events or development for the town; and
   (C)   Solicitation of visitor attractions, events, tourism, conferences,
conventions and meetings in the town.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.065 TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 3% of the gross rental receipts
derived from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code upon the
service of furnishing rooms by hotels or motels within the town, except that
the tax shall not be assessed where the rent is less than $5 per day. This
excise tax shall be in addition to any existing sales taxes imposed by the town
or the state.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. Art. 13, Sales Tax Code (§§ 1301 through
1354.6); 68 O.S. § 1350, Citation (“This article shall be known as and may be
cited as the V ‘Oklahoma Sales Tax Code”)
§ 35.066 EXEMPTIONS.
   Officers, agents, representatives or employees of any government,
corporation, organization or association that is legally exempted from state
sales taxation or town sales taxation and whose occupancy of the room is
required in connection with the official business or affairs of said
government, corporation, organization or association, shall be exempt from the
tax levied by this subchapter.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.067 PROOF OF EXEMPTION REQUIRED.
   Any person claiming to be exempt from the tax pursuant to §
35.066 shall display proof of exemption and tax identification number
certifying that the corporation, organization or association with which he or
she is affiliated is exempt from the tax.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.068 TAX TO BE DESIGNATED.
   The operator shall separately designate, charge and show all taxes on all
bills, statements, receipts or any other evidence of charges or payment of rent
for occupancy issued or delivered by the operator.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.069 OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR COLLECTION.
   The operator shall be responsible for the collection of the tax from the
occupant and shall be liable to the town for the tax.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.070 DISCOUNT.
   In order to compensate an operator for keeping tax records, filing reports
and remitting the tax when due, a discount equal to that allowed by the state’s
Tax Commission for the collection of sales tax shall be allowed upon all taxes
paid prior to the time they become delinquent.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.071 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every operator required to make a return and pay any
tax under this subchapter to keep and preserve suitable records of the gross
daily rentals together with other pertinent records and documents which may be
necessary to determine the amount of tax due hereunder and such other records
as will substantiate and prove the accuracy of such returns. All records shall
remain in the town and be preserved for a period of three years, unless the
Treasurer, in writing, has authorized their destruction or disposal at an
earlier date, and shall be open to examination at any time by the Treasurer or
by any of his or her duly authorized agents. The burden of proving that a sale
was not a taxable sale shall be upon the operator who makes the sale.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.072 RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable to the
Treasurer on the first day of each month, except as herein provided, by any
person liable for the payment of any tax due under this subchapter.
      (2)   For the purpose of ascertaining the amount of the tax payable under
this subchapter, it shall be the duty of all operators, on or before the
fifteenth day of each month, to deliver to the Treasurer, upon forms prescribed
and furnished by him or her, returns, under oath, showing the gross receipts or
gross proceeds arising from rents received from occupancy of hotel rooms during
the preceding calendar month. Such returns shall show such further information
as the Treasurer may require to correctly compute and collect the tax herein
levied. In addition to the information required on returns, the Treasurer may
request and the operator shall furnish any information deemed necessary for a
correct computation of the tax levied herein. Such operator shall compute and
remit to the Treasurer the required tax due for the preceding calendar month.
      (3)   The remittance or remittances of the tax shall accompany the
returns herein required. If not paid on or before the fifteenth of such month,
the tax shall be delinquent after such date; provided, that no interest or
penalty shall be charged on such return filed on or before the twentieth day of
such month.
   (B)   The Treasurer may permit or require returns to be made by shorter or
longer periods and upon such dates as he or she may specify. The form of return
shall be prescribed by the Treasurer and shall contain such information as he
or she may deem necessary for the proper administration of this subchapter. The
Treasurer may require amended returns to be filed within 20 days after notice,
which amended return shall contain the information specified in the notice.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.073 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator
shall pay to the Treasurer the tax imposed by this subchapter upon the rents
included in such return, as well as all other monies collected by the operator
acting or purporting to act under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.074 BOND REQUIRED.
   Where the Treasurer believes that any operator is about to cease business,
leave the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other similar reason
he or she deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under this
subchapter, he or she may require such operator to file with the town a bond
issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this state in
such amount as the Treasurer may fix to secure the payment of any tax or
penalties and interest due, or which may become due, from such operator. In the
event that the Treasurer determines that an operator is to file such bond, he
or she shall give notice to such operator specifying the amount of bond
required, which shall in no event exceed twice the amount of the sum in
controversy. The operator shall file such bond within five days after receiving
such notice unless within such five days the operator shall request in writing
a hearing before the Town Board of Trustees at which time the necessity and
amount of the bond shall be determined by the Town Board of Trustees. Such
determination shall be final and shall be complied with within 15 days
thereafter. In lieu of such bond, securities approved by the Treasurer or cash
in such amount as he or she may prescribe may be deposited with the Treasurer,
who may at any time after five days’ notice to the depositor apply them to any
tax and/or any penalties due, and for that purpose the securities may be sold
at private or public sale.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.075 ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX.
   If a return required by this subchapter is not filed, or if a return when
filed is incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by
the Treasurer from such information as may be obtainable and, if necessary, the
tax may be estimated on the basis of external indices, such as number of rooms,
location, scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations and
services, number of employees, or other factors. Written notice of such
assessments shall be given to the person liable for the collection and payment
of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and irrevocably fix and determine the
tax unless the person against whom it is assessed, within 90 days after the
giving of notice of such assessment, shall apply in writing to the Town Board
of Trustees for a hearing or unless the Treasurer upon his or her own
initiative shall reassess the same. After such hearing the Town Board of
Trustees shall give written notice of its determination to the person against
whom the tax is assessed and such determination shall be final.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.076 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   The Treasurer shall refund or credit any tax erroneously, illegally
or unconstitutionally collected if written application to the Treasurer for
such refund shall be made within 90 days from the date of payment thereof. For
like causes and in the same period, a refund may be made upon the initiative
and the order of the Treasurer.
      (2)   Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in
writing. Such application may be made by the person upon whom such tax was
imposed and who has actually paid the tax. Such application may also be made by
the person who has collected and paid such tax to the Treasurer provided that
the application is made within 90 days of the payment by the occupant to the
operator, but no refund of money shall be made to the operator until he or she
has repaid to the occupant the amount for which the application for refund is
made. The Treasurer, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow
credit therefor on payments due from the applicant.
   (B)   Determination and hearing. Upon application for a refund, the
Treasurer may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such
investigation as he or she deems necessary. After making a determination as to
the refund, the Treasurer shall give notice thereof to the applicant. Such
determination shall be final unless the applicant, within 90 days after such
notice, shall apply in writing to the Town Board of Trustees for a hearing.
After such hearing, the Town Board of Trustees shall give written notice of its
decision to the applicant.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.077 NOTICES.
   Any notice provided for under this subchapter shall be deemed to have been
given when such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or
deposited in the United States mail addressed to the last-known address of the
operator.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.078 REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided in this subchapter shall be exclusive remedies
available to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by the
subchapter.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.079 TREASURER; POWERS.
   In addition to all other powers granted to the Treasurer, he or she is
hereby authorized and empowered:
   (A)   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
collection of taxes pursuant to this subchapter;
   (B)   To extend for cause shown the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding 60 days; and, for cause shown, to waive, remit or reduce
penalties or interest;
   (C)   To delegate his or her functions hereunder to an assistant or other
employee or employees of the town;
   (D)   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the taxes imposed
by this subchapter; and
   (E)   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.080 REGISTRATION CERTIFICATES; CERTIFICATES OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Every operator shall file with the Treasurer a registration
certificate in a form prescribed by said Treasurer within ten days after the
effective date of this subchapter or, in the case of operators commencing
business or opening new hotels after such effective date, within three days
after such commencement or opening.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall, within five days after the filing of such
certificate, issue without charge to each operator a certificate of authority
empowering such operator to collect the tax from the occupant and duplicates
thereof for each additional hotel. Each certificate or duplicate shall state
the hotel to which it is applicable. Such certificate of authority shall be
permanently displayed by the operator in such manner that it may be seen and
come to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy. Such
certificates shall be nonassignable and non-transferable and shall be
surrendered immediately to the Treasurer upon the cessation of business at the
hotel, or upon its sale or transfer.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.081 INTEREST.
   If any tax levied by this subchapter becomes delinquent, the person
responsible and liable for such tax shall pay interest on such unpaid tax at
the rate of 1.5% per month on the unpaid balance from the date of delinquency
until said unpaid balance is paid in full.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.082 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the taxis legislatively recognized and declared; and to
protect the same, the provision of 68 O.S. § 205 of the state’s Sales Tax Code,
and each section thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to the administration of this subchapter as if herein
set forth.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.083 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   The willful failure or refusal of any operator to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false or fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or a portion thereof
rightfully due under this subchapter shall be an offense against the town.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.084 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the town, by their approval of this subchapter at the election
herein provided, hereby authorize the Town Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly
enacted, to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the
method and manner of administering and enforcing this subchapter as may be
necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the
tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified
voters of the town as provided by law.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.085 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.086 PROVISIONS SEVERABLE.
   The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be severable, and if any
section, paragraph, sentence or clause of this subchapter is for any reason
held invalid or inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect any other section, paragraph, sentence or clause
hereof.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
§ 35.087 PAYMENT OF LEGAL FEES.
   In the event a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction is caused to be
filed, either on behalf of or against the town, and said cause is the direct
result of the conditions, stipulations or requirements hereinbefore set forth,
an amount necessary to pay all legal fees incurred by the town, as well as
fines or penalties imposed against it, shall be set aside from the monies
authorized to be collected hereby in payment thereof, regardless of whether
said cause was for the purpose of enforcing or defending the provision of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 342, passed 8-9-2012)
CHAPTER 36: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
36.01   Court created
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Jurisdiction
   
36.04   Judge
   
36.05   Alternate Judge
   
36.06   Acting Judge
   
36.07   Judges; provisions of office
   
36.08   Chief of Police
   
36.09   Clerk of Court
   
36.10   Attorney
   
36.11   Rules of conduct
   
36.12   Style of prosecutions
   
36.13   Penalty for misdemeanors
   
36.14   Costs
   
36.15   Schedule of fines
   
36.16   Traffic violations
   
36.17   Traffic Violations Bureau
   
36.18   Summons
   
36.19   Warrant of arrest
   
36.20   Bail
   
36.21   Judgment
   
36.22   Imprisonment; cost of incarceration to be collected
   
36.23   Acquittal
   
36.24   Suspension
§ 36.01 COURT CREATED.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Court of the town, as put into operation by resolution duly passed and filed in
accordance with law, as authorized by 11 O.S. § 27-101. To the extent of
conflict between any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any other
ordinance of this town, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
town.
   CLERK. The Clerk of this town, including any deputy or member of the office
staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of this town.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court, aforesaid, including any Acting
Judge or Alternate Judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state
and this chapter.
   MUNICIPALITY or THIS MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Hennessey, Oklahoma.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The District Court Judicial District of the State of
Oklahoma wherein the government of this town is situated.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
§ 36.03 JURISDICTION.
   The Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the Court in accordance
with applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3)
§ 36.04 JUDGE.
   (A)   Qualifications. There shall be one Judge of the Court. A Judge need
not be a licensed attorney at law, but, if not, he or she must be a resident of
this town, of the age of at least 21 years, possessed of good moral character.
A Judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law in other
Courts, but he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent with his or her
duties as Judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected
with cases within the jurisdiction of the Court, pending therein or which might
become the subject of proceedings therein.
   (B)   Term. The official term of the Judge shall be two years, expiring on
the first Monday in May, in each odd numbered year. Each Judge, unless sooner
removed for proper cause, shall serve until his or her successor is appointed
and qualified, provided that the Judge of the Municipal Court existing in this
town at the effective date of this chapter shall act as Judge of the Court
herein provided for until a Judge is appointed and qualified under the terms of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4)
§ 36.05 ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   There shall be appointed, for each Judge of the Court, an Alternate
Judge, possessed of the same qualifications as the Judge. His or her
appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
Judge.
   (B)   He or she shall sit as Acting Judge of the Court in any case if the
Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court;
      (2)   Unable to act as judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5)
§ 36.06 ACTING JUDGE.
   If, at any time, there is no judge or alternate judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as judge, the Mayor shall appoint some person,
possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the Judge, who shall
preside, as Acting Judge, over the Court in the disposition of pending matters
until such time as a Judge or Alternate Judge shall be available.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6)
§ 36.07 JUDGES; PROVISIONS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   Judges and Alternate Judges shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the consent of the Board of Trustees. A proposed appointment shall be submitted
in writing to the Board of Trustees at the next to the last regularly scheduled
meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and
shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may decide upon the proposed appointment by a
majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure of decision upon a
proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Trustees, unless the Mayor, in writing,
withdraws the proposed appointment.
   (B)   Compensation. The town’s Municipal Judge shall receive an annual
salary of $6,600 payable at the rate of $550 per month. An Alternate or Acting
Judge shall be paid the sum of $100 for each Court session at which he or she
presides.
   (C)   Removal.
      (1)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office, by the Board of
Trustees, for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of this state
for the removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted
by the filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal.
      (2)   Petitions may be signed and filed by:
         (a)   The Mayor; or
         (b)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of this town; in the
latter event, verification may be executed by one or more of the petitioners.
The Board of Trustees shall set a date for hearing the matter, and shall cause
notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served personally
upon the Judge at least ten days before the hearing.
      (3)   At the hearing, the Judge shall be entitled:
         (a)   To representation by counsel;
         (b)   To present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against
him or her; and
         (c)   To have all evidence against him or her presented in open
hearing.
      (4)   So far as they can be made applicable, the provisions of the
Oklahoma Administrative Procedure Act (75 O.S. §§ 309 through 317) governing
individual proceedings and any amendments or additions thereto in effect at the
time of the hearing shall govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of
removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by a majority of all
members of the Board of Trustees, in favor of such removal.
   (D)   Vacancy.
      (1)   Conditions. A vacancy in the office of Judge shall occur if the
incumbent:
         (a)   Dies;
         (b)   Resigns; or
         (c)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office.
      (2)   Successor. Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Judge,
the Mayor shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term, upon the
same procedure as an original appointment is made.
   (E)   Disqualification. In prosecutions before the Court, no change of venue
shall be allowed; but the Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his
or her disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from sitting under the
terms, conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record. If a
Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an Alternate or Acting
Judge, appointed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-7) (Ord. 281, passed 7-6-1995)
§ 36.08 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All writs or process of the Court shall be directed, in his or her official
title, to the Chief of Police of this town, who shall be the principal officer
of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-8)
§ 36.09 CLERK OF COURT.
   (A)   Duties. The Clerk, or a deputy designated by him or her, shall be the
Clerk of the Court.
      (1)   (a)   He or she shall assist the Judge in recording the proceedings
of the Court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. He or she
shall administer oaths required in proceedings before the Court. He or she
shall enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the
Court.
         (b)   He or she shall perform such other clerical duties relating to
the proceedings of the Court as the Judge shall direct. He or she shall receive
and receipt for fees, deposits and sums of money payable to the Court. He or
she shall pay to the Treasurer of this town, each month, all monies so received
to be disbursed by him or her for special purposes.
      (2)   All monies paid to the Treasurer shall be placed in the General
Fund of the town, or in such other fund as the Board of Trustees may direct,
and it shall be used in the operation of the town government in accordance with
budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed.
   (B)   Bond.
      (1)   The Clerk of the Court shall give bond, in the form provided by 11
O.S. § 27-111, in the sum of $1,000.
      (2)   When executed, said bond shall be submitted to the Board of
Trustees for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk of this
town and retained in the municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-9)
§ 36.10 ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Attorney for this town, or his or her duly designated assistant,
shall be the prosecuting officer of the Court.
   (B)   He or she shall prosecute all alleged violations of the ordinances of
the town. He or she shall be authorized, in his or her discretion, to prosecute
and resist appeals, proceedings in error and review from this Court to any
other courts of the state, and to represent this town in all proceedings
arising out of matters in this Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-10)
§ 36.11 RULES OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Judge to prescribe. The Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the
laws of the state and with the ordinances of this town, for the proper conduct
of the business of the Court.
   (B)   Enforcement. Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the
Judge or by the Court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison
for contempt committed as to him or her while holding court, or committed
against process issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the same extent
as the District Courts of this state.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-11)
§ 36.12 STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS.
   All prosecutions for violation of ordinances of this town shall be styled
The Town of Hennessey v. (naming defendant or defendants). Except as provided
hereinafter, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-12)
§ 36.13 PENALTY FOR MISDEMEANORS.
   A plea of guilty or conviction for violation of any of the town ordinances
shall constitute a misdemeanor, other than the traffic offenses herein set
forth, and a penalty for such violation may be imposed as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, plus court costs and appropriate fees.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-13)
§ 36.14 COSTS.
   (A)   Court costs. If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the
Court shall tax the costs to the defendant in the sum as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees, plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses.
   (B)   CLEET assessment. All fines are subject to an additional penalty
assessment for CLEET in the amount as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and
Fees.
   (C)   Forensic science improvement assessment fee. In addition to all costs
and assessments previously imposed by the Municipal Court on fines, there is
added a forensic science improvement assessment fee in the amount as set forth
in the Appendix of Fines and Fees from which the Municipal Court is authorized
to retain 5% as an administrative fee as provided by law.
   (D)   Police Department continuing education fee. In addition to all costs
and assessments previously imposed by the Municipal Court on fines, there is
added a Police Department continuing education fee in the amount as set forth
in the Appendix of Fines and Fees from which employees of the Police Department
will be provided additional professional job-related training outside that
which is currently provided at no cost by CLEET.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-14) (Ord. 300, passed 10-5-2000; Ord. 304, passed 11-8-2001;
Ord. 339, passed 7-8-2010; Ord. 361, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.15 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   The schedule of fines can be found in the Appendix of Fines and Fees to this
code of ordinances, being part of Division B, “Title III Charge Schedule”.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-15) (Ord. 340, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 36.16 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Procedure. If a police officer observes facts which he or she believes
constitute a violation of the traffic ordinances of this town, committed by a
resident thereof, in lieu of arresting such person, he or she may take his or
her name, address, operator’s license number, the registered license number of
the motor vehicle involved, and any other pertinent and necessary information,
and may issue to him or her, in writing in form prescribed by the Mayor or his
or her duly designated delegate, a traffic citation embracing the above
information and further stating the traffic violation alleged to have occurred,
and notifying him or her to answer to the charge against him or her in the
Court at a time, not sooner than five days thereafter, specified in the
citation.
      (1)   The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator, endorsed on the citation, to answer as specified, shall release said
person from custody.
      (2)   If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer as
prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Nonresident.
      (1)   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident of
this town, the police officer shall take him or her into custody under arrest.
      (2)   The arrested person either:
         (a)   Shall be taken immediately before the Judge for further
proceedings according to law; or
         (b)   Shall have bail fixed for his or her release in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon giving his or her written
promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in division (A) of this
section, he or she shall be released from custody.
   (C)   Parking.
      (1)   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting
or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under
such an ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall
place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in division
(A) of this section, with such variation as the circumstances require.
      (2)   The operator of the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to
respond to the citation as if it had been issued to him or her personally under
division (A) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-17)
§ 36.17 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Established; procedure.
      (1)   A Traffic Violations Bureau hereby is established as a division of
the office of the Clerk of the Court, to be administered by the Clerk, or by
subordinates designated by him or her for that purpose.
      (2)   Persons who are cited for violation of one of the traffic
regulatory ordinances of this town other than:
         (a)   A second traffic offense within a 12-month period;
         (b)   A driver’s license offense; or
         (c)   An offense punishable by a fine of not more than $35 or by
imprisonment, may elect to pay a fine in the Traffic Violations Bureau
according to the schedule in §
36.15 of this chapter.
   (B)   Enforcement. The Court may adopt rules to carry into effect this
section. Payment of a fine under this section shall constitute a final
determination of the cause against the defendant. If a defendant who has
elected to pay a fine under this section fails to do so, prosecution shall
proceed under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-18)
§ 36.18 SUMMONS.
   (A)   Issuance. Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of an
ordinance, the Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest,
or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been
arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the
person charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known,
stating the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her
notice to answer the charge in the Court (on a day certain, five days, Sundays
and holidays excepted, after the summons is served upon him or her), containing
a provision for the official return of the summons, and including such other
pertinent information as may be necessary.
   (B)   Service. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the
defendant personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons
within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest,
as provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-19)
§ 36.19 WARRANT OF ARREST.
   (A)   Issuance; form. Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this
town, upon the filing of a complaint approved by endorsement by the attorney of
this town or by the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in
substantially the following form:
 
         The Town of Hennessey to the Marshal of the Municipal Court of Hennessey,
Oklahoma. Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complaint) that
the offense of (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been
committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefore
forthwith to arrest the above named (name of defendant) and bring before me, at
                         .
      Witness my hand this                 day of                , 20      .
                                                                                    
      Judge of the Municipal Court of Hennessey, Oklahoma
 
 
   (B)   Execution. It shall be the duty of the aforesaid marshal, personally,
or through a duly constituted member of the police force of this town, or
through any other persons lawfully authorized so to act, to execute said
warrant as promptly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-20)
§ 36.20 BAIL.
   (A)   Release on arrest.
      (1)   Whenever a resident of this town is arrested for the violation of
any ordinance, traffic or non-traffic, by a law enforcement officer, the
officer shall immediately release such person if he or she acknowledges receipt
of a citation by signing it unless it reasonably appears to the officer that
the person may cause injury to himself, herself or others or damage to property
if released or that the person will not appear in response to the citation.
      (2)   If such person fails to appear in response to the citation a
warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest and his or her appearance shall
be compelled.
   (B)   Admission to bail. Whenever a resident of this town is arrested by a
law enforcement officer for the violation of any ordinance and is not released
by being permitted to sign a citation as provided in division (A) of this
section, he or she shall be admitted to bail either before or after
arraignment, or released on his or her own recognizance.
   (C)   Nonresident. Whenever a nonresident of this town is arrested for a
violation, other than a traffic violation, by a law enforcement officer, the
defendant shall be eligible to be admitted to bail either before or after
arraignment.   (D)   Posting bail. A person who is arrested for a municipal
traffic violation by a law enforcement officer shall comply with the procedures
provided by law in 22 O.S. § 1115.1 for state traffic violations with respect
to release of the arrested person and the following methods of posting bail
shall apply:
      (1)   Posting cash bail; and
      (2)   Depositing with the arresting officer a guaranteed arrest bond
certificate.
   (E)   Amount of bail; arrests at night. The amount and conditions of bail
granted under this section shall be determined by the Judge who shall prescribe
rules for the receipt of bail and for the release on recognizance. In the event
of arrests at night, or other emergency, or when the Judge is not available,
the Chief of Police or his or her designated representative shall be authorized
by the Judge under such conditions as shall be prescribed by the Judge to
accept a temporary cash bond in a sufficient amount to secure the appearance of
the accused, but in no event shall the cash bond be more than the maximum fine
provided by ordinance for each offense charged. The Chief of Police or his or
her designated representative is authorized subject to such conditions as shall
be prescribed by the Judge to release a resident of the town on his or her
recognizance.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-21)
§ 36.21 JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Conviction. If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after
trial, the Court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the
limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence
accordingly.
   (B)   Entry on docket. At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered
immediately by the Judge who shall cause it to be entered in his or her docket.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-22)
§ 36.22 IMPRISONMENT; COST OF INCARCERATION TO BE COLLECTED.
   (A)   All sentences of imprisonment shall be executed by the Chief of Police
of the municipality, and any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance
of the municipality and sentenced to imprisonment shall be confined in the
jail, farm or workhouse, of the municipality, in the discretion of the Court,
for the time specified in the sentence.
   (B)   (1)   If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a
copy thereof, certified by the Clerk, shall be delivered to the Chief of
Police, the Sheriff of the county or other appropriate police officer.
      (2)   Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution of the
sentence.
   (C)   Assessment of costs of incarceration.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         COSTS OF INCARCERATION. The costs of booking, receiving and processing
out, housing, food, clothing, medical care, dental care and psychiatric
services.
      (2)   (a)   Upon conviction or receiving a continued sentence, a person
who was actually received into custody at a jail facility utilized by the town
for the purposes of housing prisoners for alleged or adjudicated violations of
municipal ordinances shall pay for the costs of incarceration.
         (b)   The Court shall order the defendant to reimburse the costs of
incarceration, including booking, receiving and processing out, housing, food,
clothing, medical care, dental care and psychiatric services.
      (3)   The costs for incarceration shall be determined by the Chief of
Police.
      (4)   The costs for housing shall be determined by the actual costs
charged by the county jail per 24-hour day or part thereof, measured from 12:01
a.m. to 12:00 midnight. The costs are currently as set forth in the Appendix of
Fines and Fees.
      (5)   The cost of incarceration shall be collected by the Clerk of the
Municipal Court and deposited with the Town Treasurer as provide for the
collection of other costs and fines, which shall be subject to review under the
procedures in 22 O.S. Section VIII, Chapter 18, Appendix.
      (6)   The town shall give the defendant notice, either in person or by
regular mail of the incarceration costs owed before the costs are collected.
The defendant shall have ten days from the date notice is given to object to
the amount of the costs solely on the ground that the number of days served is
incorrect. If the defendant chooses to make an objection, the defendant shall
be directed to the municipal counselor or his or her designee assistant
municipal counselor shall evaluate the objection to determine the appropriate
number of days of incarceration. The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall assess
the costs for the appropriate number of days as determined by the municipal
counselor’s office. If no objection is made, the costs may be collected in the
amount stated in the notice to the defendant. Costs of incarceration shall be a
debt of the defendant owed to the town may be collected as provided by law for
collection of any other civil debt or criminal action.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-23) (Ord. 333, passed 10-8-2009)
§ 36.23 ACQUITTAL.
   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained for any
other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-24)
§ 36.24 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Authority; procedure. The Judge of the Municipal Court imposing a
judgment and sentence, at his or her discretion, is empowered to suspend or
defer the imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to authorize
probation for a period not to exceed six months from the date of sentence,
under such terms or conditions as the Judge may specify. Procedures relating to
suspension of the judgment or costs or both shall be as provided in 11 O.S. §
27-123. Upon completion of the probation term, the defendant shall be
discharged. Upon a finding of the Court that the conditions of probation have
been violated, the Municipal Judge may enter a judgment of guilty.
   (B)   Term of suspension. The Judge of the Municipal Court may continue or
delay imposing a judgment and sentence for a period of time not to exceed six
months from the date of sentence, provided said Judge is licensed to practice
law in the state. At the expiration of such period of time the Judge may allow
the Town Attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-25)
CHAPTER 37: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
37.01   Purpose; duty
   
37.02   Department established
   
37.03   Director; powers and duties
   
37.04   Duties of Director during emergencies
   
37.05   Enforcement of laws and ordinances
   
37.06   Compensation; liability
§ 37.01 PURPOSE; DUTY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to create a civil defense organization for
the town to be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of the town. The duty of the
civil defense organization shall be the protection of the lives and health of
the citizens of the town and of property and property rights, both private and
public, and to perform all functions necessary and incident.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
§ 37.02 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government,
being the Board of Trustees of the town, a Department of Civil Defense, which
shall consist of a Director of Civil Defense, who shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the Board of Trustees and serve at the pleasure of
said board.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2)
§ 37.03 DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Director of Civil Defense shall be the executive head of the Department
of Civil Defense and shall be responsible for carrying out the civil defense
program of the town. He or she may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the
performance of his or her duties. It shall be the duty of the Director of Civil
Defense as soon as practicable after his or her appointment to perfect an
organization to carry out the purposes set forth in this chapter and he or she
shall have all necessary power and authority to form committees or other bodies
and to appoint and designate the Chairperson or chief officer of such bodies as
may be necessary to perfect such an organization. He or she shall have such
further duty and responsibility to cooperate with all civil defense agencies or
other governmental units including the state and the federal government. The
Director of Civil Defense is further authorized to formulate written plans and
gather information and keep written record thereof to govern the functions of
the civil defense organization.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3)
§ 37.04 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR DURING EMERGENCIES.
   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Director of Civil Defense after due authorization from the
Mayor shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations
relating to civil defense for the purpose of protecting the civilian
population. He or she shall cooperate in every way with the activities of the
governmental agencies or civil defense organizations; and if required by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, shall have control over any and all funds
allocated from any source for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in
the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4)
§ 37.05 ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The Director of Civil Defense and other members of the civil defense
organization created by him or her shall have the power and authority to
enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the town during the period of
emergency, and shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for
violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5)
§ 37.06 COMPENSATION; LIABILITY.
   All members of the civil defense organization created hereunder shall serve
without compensation. The town shall not be liable for any personal injury
received by any member of such organization while acting in the line of duty,
unless otherwise provided by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   WATER SERVICE
      
52.   SEWER SERVICE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Short title
   
50.02   Exclusive right of town
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   Duty to request garbage service
   
50.05   Containers
   
50.06   Frequency of collection
   
50.07   Individual disposal or burning
   
50.08   Uncollected garbage and trash; nuisance
   
50.09   Service charge
   
50.10   Solid waste management agreement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Garbage Collection Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 50.02 EXCLUSIVE RIGHT OF TOWN.
   The town hereby reserves to itself the exclusive right and privilege of the
collection, removal and disposition of all garbage, trash, rubbish and rubble
within the corporate limits of the town, either by contracting with a suitable
person or persons for the collection and removal thereof, or by the collection
and removal thereof by the employees of said town, either method to be at the
discretion of the Town Board of Trustees. The Town Board of Trustees shall be
empowered to acquire suitable trucks and other equipment for the collection and
removal of garbage from the corporate limits of the town, and shall have power
to enter into contracts with private persons or corporations to sell such
garbage and/or to deliver the same to points within or without the corporate
limits of said town.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Vegetable or animal refuse accumulating from kitchens, pantries,
dining rooms, restaurants, boarding houses, dwellings, markets, stores and
other establishments.
   RUBBISH. Solid and ordinary waste, other than garbage, accumulated by family
residents, including glass and broken ware, discarded clothing, trash, tin
cans, bottles, papers and tree limbs, grass and weed cuttings properly
contained or bundled as described herein.
   RUBBLE. Includes dirt, rocks, ashes, debris resulting from construction,
reconstruction or repair of buildings, and other earthen, wooden or metal
materials, longer, larger and/or heavier than rubbish. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to preclude a person from removing rubbish and rubble, as
herein defined, from his or her premises at the expense of such person;
provided, it is done in a neat and sanitary manner.
   TRASH.
      (1)   Refuse consisting of wastepaper, broken ware, discarded shoes and
clothing, tin cans, bottles, grass cuttings, shrub trimmings, paper boxes and
cartons, and floor sweepings from dwelling, business or industrial
establishments.
      (2)   The term TRASH shall not include manure, debris from construction
or repair work, leaves, trees or tree trimmings, or business or industrial
wastes, which in the judgment of the superintendent of the department in charge
of refuse removal, or his or her authorized representative, are likely to cause
damage to the equipment of the town, injury to employees of the town or are
likely, because of the nature, size or weight of the material, to handicap or
overburden the collection of trash and garbage of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3)
§ 50.04 DUTY TO REQUEST GARBAGE SERVICE.
   To assist in maintaining the general sanitation and health of the town, it
shall be the duty of every person occupying or having control of the occupancy
of any premises located on a regularly established garbage route to notify the
town offices at the beginning of such occupancy and request, accept and use the
garbage pickup and collection service, whether performed by a private licensed
refuse collector or the town through its employees and agents, and by such
request, and/or accepted use, the applicant shall grant the town a license to
come upon the premises for the purpose of removal of garbage, trash, rubbish
and rubble; provided, however, that failure of any owner, rental agent or
occupant of such premises to make such request shall not prevent nor in any way
impair or impede the town from adding the address of such premises to the
proper garbage collection records and providing such service and otherwise
enforcing, by appropriate action, the regulatory measures herein prescribed and
causing the fee or charge thereof to be paid.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Required. No person shall deposit or place any garbage or trash in any
alley, street or other public place within the town, nor shall any person
deposit or place it upon private property, whether owned by such person or not,
within the limits of the town, unless the same shall be enclosed in a suitable
container.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   Accessibility. Garbage and trash containers shall be located at a
single place on each premises, which place shall be easily accessible to the
street or alley from which the collections are made. The town reserves the
right to refuse to collect garbage and trash from containers which are not
easily accessible, and do not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Downspouts. Garbage and trash containers shall not be located
directly under downspouts or eaves where they will be deluged with water during
storms.
      (3)   Accumulation unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant
or other persons in charge of any lot, tract of ground or other premises in the
town to allow garbage or trash to accumulate thereon and to permit water or
other putrid substances, whether animal or vegetable, to so accumulate as to
cause an offensive odor to be emitted therefrom or to cause a condition
dangerous to the health of any person.
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   The standard refuse container required by this chapter shall be a
receptacle of not more than 35 gallons or less than ten gallons’ capacity, of
impervious material and sturdy construction, with a tight-fitting cover,
equipped with at least two handles properly spaced to facilitate handling, and
shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees, or plastic bags
manufactured to be used as garbage containers.
      (2)   If one container is not sufficient to hold the quantity of garbage
and trash accumulated between collections, a sufficient number of containers
shall be provided.
      (3)   All commercial establishments and institutions shall furnish a
metal dumpster type container if three 35-gallon containers are not sufficient
to hold the quantity of garbage, trash and solid waste accumulated between
collections.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   Garbage and trash shall be collected from each residence in the town limits
at least once each seven days, and from each business and school no less than
one time or more than three times a week.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6)
§ 50.07 INDIVIDUAL DISPOSAL OR BURNING.
   The disposal or burning of garbage and trash by any individual or business
house or establishment, in any place, private or public, within the limits of
said town, is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-section:
   Burning trash, see§
135.02
§ 50.08 UNCOLLECTED GARBAGE AND TRASH; NUISANCE.
   Fermenting, putrefying or odoriferous garbage in containers uncollected or
dumped in the open due to failure to provide adequate containers or pay the
garbage service fee as provided herein, or to improper type, or placement, or
maintenance of containers, shall be declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Established. A schedule of rates and fees for service charges for
residence, business and commercial establishments as provided by this chapter
for disposal of garbage, trash, rubbish and rubble shall be set by the town
utilities authority, and submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval and
adoption.
   (B)   Adopted. When such schedule for service charges shall have been
approved and adopted, the same shall become a part of this chapter, the same as
if fully incorporated herein, and shall be part of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-9) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 50.10 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section and it is hereby declared
to be the policy of the town, pursuant to the authority of the Oklahoma Solid
Waste Management Act (27A O.S. §§ 2-10-101 et seq.), to regulate the collection
and disposal of solid wastes in a manner that will:
      (1)   Protect the public health and welfare;
      (2)   Prevent air and water pollution;
      (3)   Prevent the spread of disease and the creation of nuisances;
      (4)   Conserve the natural resources; and
      (5)   Enhance and preserve the beauty and quality of the town’s
environment.
   (B)   Participation in Kingfisher Hennessey Solid Waste Association. This
section is passed and adopted pursuant to a solid waste management system
authorized and provided for in the Solid Waste Management Act, and pursuant
thereto an association has been formed wherein the town, in participation with
Kingfisher County, may properly dispose of solid wastes in accordance with said
act. The Trustees of the town, acting through their Mayor, shall be and they
are hereby authorized to enter into said agreement for the organization of
Kingfisher Hennessey Solid Waste Association, which said agreement is available
for inspection in the office of the Town Clerk and made a part hereof, and
which said agreement is hereby ratified and confirmed, and to abide by and
perform the terms of said agreement, so as to comply with the intent of the
Solid Waste Management Act of the state and the rules and regulations of the
State Department of Health promulgated pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-11)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person within the town who fails, neglects or refuses to pay the charges
set forth in this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, may be punished by fine and costs as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-10)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SERVICE
Section
   
51.01   Administration; use of water, sewer and solid waste systems
   
51.02   Application for service
   
51.03   Deposits
   
51.04   Service connection
   
51.05   Service charges
   
51.06   Reconnection of service
   
51.07   Debt to be paid
   
51.08   Meters
   
51.09   Pipe size
   
51.10   Maintenance of service lines
   
51.11   Curb cocks; service keys
   
51.12   Inspections; employee credentials
   
51.13   Main extensions
   
51.14   Cross connections
   
51.15   Fire protection service
   
51.16   Fire hydrants
   
51.17   Water shortage
   
51.18   Pollution of water supply
   
51.19   Water well permit and fees
   
51.20   Utility collection fee
§ 51.01 ADMINISTRATION; USE OF WATER, SEWER AND SOLID WASTE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Administration. The town offices shall have charge of all ordinary
financial operations of the water system as a business enterprise, including
billing for water rents; collection of fees for taps, material, line extension,
water deposits, water rents, penalties and any other money payable to the town
in the ordinary financial operations of the water system; together with the
keeping of proper accounts. The town offices shall not have any function
regarding the control, operation, repair maintenance and improvement of the
physical plant of the water system. The Board of Trustees shall regulate the
relationship between the town offices and the town utilities authority when the
same is not regulated otherwise.
   (B)   Use of water, sewer, and solid waste systems. Every residential
inhabitant within the corporate limits of the town, and every commercial or
business entity or enterprise who may practically do so, shall secure all of
its potable water requirements from the water system owned by said town and
leased to the town utilities authority, connect to the sanitary sewer system
owned by said town and lease to said authority, and not otherwise dispose of
sewage, unless it is impossible or not feasible to fo so, and utilize and pay
for the solid waste collection and disposal system, unless it is inconsistent
to do so in accordance with the policies of said authority and other applicable
requirements if this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995; Ord. 337, passed 6-10-2010)
§ 51.02 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Procedure. Any person, firm or corporation desiring to connect a
premises with the water supply system of the town shall make application
therefor at the town offices. The application shall contain the location of the
premises where such water is to be used and such other reasonable information
as the town utilities authority may require. Tap charge in effect at time of
application must be paid at time application is made, and no work will be
started by the town until same is done.
      (1)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, education, recreating or other purposes, situated within
the town and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is
now located, or may in the future be located, a town utilities authority water
line (in accordance which all municipal requirements) and pay all HUA fees and
charges therefor, within 120 days after the date of official HUA notice to do
so: provided, that, the HUA water line is within 300 feet of the property line.
      (2)   It shall be hereinafter unlawful for any person to maintain or
establish a private water well to serve a facility, unless he or she shall
first be connected to the HUA water system and pay the monthly water fees and
charges; provided, that he or she meets all the requirements for mandatory
hook-up established in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Contract for service. The application for water service shall be
considered a contract with the town and the person making the application
agrees:
      (1)   Payment. To pay for the water consumed at the rate prescribed by
the Board of Trustees at the time the water is consumed;
      (2)   Rate changes. To recognize the right of the town to change the rate
at any time;
      (3)   Discontinuance of service. To recognize the right of the town to
temporarily discontinue water service at any time, without notice to the
consumer, to install, repair or remove a water meter, or for other proper
cause;
      (4)   Compliance with ordinances. That the contract is subject to all the
ordinances in effect at the time of making the contract and which may be passed
and become effective thereafter;
      (5)   Defective plumbing. The town shall not be responsible for damage by
water or other cause resulting from defective plumbing or appliances, and the
fact that an agent of the town has inspected any such plumbing or appliances
shall not be pleaded as a basis for recovery in case of damages to the premises
from defective plumbing or appliances installed by the owner or occupant of
such premises; and
      (6)   Interruption of water supply. The town shall not be liable for
damages resulting from the interruption or failure of the supply of water,
regardless of the cause thereof; and that such failure of the supply of water,
regardless of the cause thereof, for any reasonable period of time shall not be
held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the town nor relieve the
consumer from performing the obligation of his or her contract.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 51.03 DEPOSITS.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring water service from the town shall
make application for such water service at the Town Clerk’s office and pay a
deposit to said office as follows.
   (A)   Single-family owners. Single-family residential users, showing
ownership of property, shall pay a deposit as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees.
   (B)   Single-family renters. Single-family residential users, renting
property or mobile home spaces, shall pay a deposit as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees.
   (C)   Normal industrial and commercial users. Normal industrial and
commercial users, owners or renters, shall pay a deposit as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees.
   (D)   Large industrial users. Large industrial users of water shall make a
deposit as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees.
   (E)   Food service. Restaurants and/or food service users shall pay a
deposit as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees.
   (F)   Mobile home parks. Mobile home parks using one master meter will be
charged a deposit as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 277, passed 7-7-1994)
§ 51.04 SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   Fees. Any person, firm or corporation desiring water service from the
town and having made application for such water service at the town offices
shall pay to the town utilities authority the meter setting and connection or
tap fees as set by the town utilities authority and may be changed by
resolution.
   (B)   Premises more than 100 feet from main. When the premises to be
connected are over 100 feet from the town water main, the applicant for service
shall pay the entire cost of running the pipe any additional distance to the
property to be served, providing the designated service has been approved.
   (C)   One service to a premises; one premises to a service. No premises
shall be allowed more than one service connection unless for good cause shown.
A special permit therefor shall be given on approval of the Board of Trustees
and on appeal to the Board of Trustees if such an appeal is requested. Every
separate premises supplied by the town water must have its own separate service
connection and meter with the town main; and the premises so supplied shall not
allow water to be supplied to any other premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 51.05 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Person charged. All charges for water shall be charged against the
applicant or consumer.
   (B)   Minimums for separate buildings or apartments. When more than one
building of any kind, or more than one residential or single-family living area
in any building, is served through one water meter, each such building,
apartment or area shall be deemed a separate water service, and a separate
minimum charge shall be made therefor and collected by the Town Clerk’s office.
In any such case, such minimum charges shall be the regular minimum charge at
the current rate in effect at the time of billing.
   (C)   Water rates. The fees charged to users of water from the town water
system shall be set by motion or resolution by the town utilities authority and
Board of Trustees as deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 51.06 RECONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Authority to reconnect. When water service has been discontinued at
any premises by application of the owner thereof or for the nonpayment of water
charges or for any other cause, it shall be unlawful for any person to again
connect such premises with water service except when authorized to do so by the
Water Superintendent or his or her delegate. When water is so reinstated
without such authority, the Water Superintendent or his or her delegate may
then turn off the water at the main, or remove a portion of the service
connection at the cock; and if the water was turned on by the consumer or by
his or her authority, he or she shall be charged the actual cost of
discontinuing and reinstating the water supply.
   (B)   Reconnection fee. In case water service is cut off from a customer
because of failure to pay water bill, a charge as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees shall be made to the customer for turning the water
back on.
   (C)   Notice of disconnection. In cutting water off to a customer,
sufficient notice will have been given by notifying the customer of the
delinquency of his or her billing by mail. Such mailing will be made by the
town offices with the authorization of the Town Administrator.
   (D)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect that:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
         (c)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge as
set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 DEBT TO BE PAID.
   Should any water consumer cease to be a water consumer by reason of moving
or leaving the area wherein the town has jurisdiction, and be indebted to the
town for water in any amount, and should the same consumer again become a user
of water or again seek to have a water connection, the town utilities authority
shall enforce collection for any sum due the town for water not having been
paid, and refuse the connection until all such claims are paid.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
§ 51.08 METERS.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for a plumber or any other person to make a
connection to or use water from the town water system until a meter has been
set. All meters installed by the town shall belong to the town.
   (B)   Town employees. All water meters shall be set and connected to the
town mains by employees of the town.
   (C)   Injured or broken meters. In all cases where meters or boxes are lost,
injured or broken by willful action or as a result of carelessness or
negligence of owners or occupants of premises, the same shall be replaced or
repaired at the expense of the owner or occupant.
      (1)   In case of nonpayment, the water shall be cut off and shall not be
turned on until such charges are paid.
      (2)   In the event a meter becomes out of order or fails to register
properly, the consumer shall be charged on an estimate made by the town of the
average monthly consumption during the last three months said meter was in good
condition or from what he or she may consider to be the most reliable date at
his or her command.
   (D)   Interference with water supply system. It is unlawful for any person,
unless duly authorized by the town utilities authority, to disturb, displace,
interfere with or take control of the municipal water supply system of the
town.
   (E)   Charge for damaged or destroyed AMR water meter caps, antenna,
transmitter, wiring, parts or lid or automated water meters. The charges
described in the Appendix of Fines and Fees shall be assessed and paid by any
utility customer of the town when and if the cap, antenna, transmitter, wiring
or parts of the automated water meter or lid or the automated water meter
serving the utility customer’s residence or business is lost, damaged or
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8) (Ord. 388, passed 1-11-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Tampering with public utilities, see §
133.04
§ 51.09 PIPE SIZE.
   All persons connected with the town water system or laying their own private
water line shall be required to use standard pipe and/or PVC schedule 40 up to
and including two inches in size. All pipes shall be laid not less than 30
inches below the surface of the ground, except in ungraded streets where the
grade is already established, the pipes shall be laid at least two feet below
the established grade.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9)
§ 51.10 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Town service lines. All service lines between the main and the meter
shall be maintained by and at the expense of the town. If a meter is not at the
end of the lead service, the service lines and the meter shall be maintained by
the town.
   (B)   Private lines. All private lines shall be maintained by and at the
expense of owner. When the town utilities authority or Water Superintendent
notifies the owner of a leak in his or her private line, the owner shall have
the same repaired immediately, and in case of failure to do so within a
reasonable time, such user’s service may be cut off until the line has been
repaired.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10)
§ 51.11 CURB COCKS; SERVICE KEYS.
   The Water Superintendent may permit any licensed plumber to have a service
key, which he or she shall keep in his or her possession and with which he or
she may shut off the curb cock for the purpose of making repairs on the
premises. No person other than a licensed plumber shall use this key, and
plumbers shall leave a curb cock in the condition in which it was found.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11)
§ 51.12 INSPECTIONS; EMPLOYEE CREDENTIALS.
   (A)   Inspection; credentials. Officers and employees of the town utilities
authority, whose duty it may be to enter upon private premises to make
inspection of pipes, and fixtures, or attachments used in connection with the
town’s water lines, shall be provided with a badge or other credential to
identify them as officers and employees of the town utilities authority. Any
officer or employee of the town utilities authority shall, upon presentation of
his or her badge or other credential provided for in this section, have free
access at all reasonable hours to any inspection of a water connection or line
upon the premises. In case any employee is refused admittance to any premises
or is prevented from making such inspection, the town utilities authority may
cause the water service to be discontinued at the premises forthwith.
   (B)   Exhibition and surrender of credentials. No person who is not an
officer or employee of the town utilities authority shall have, wear or exhibit
any badge and credentials of the town utilities authority. It shall be the duty
of every officer or employee of the town utilities authority, upon resignation
or dismissal from the town utilities authority, forthwith to surrender and
deliver to town utilities authority all badges and credentials of town
utilities authority in his or her possession.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-12)
§ 51.13 MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Approval; specifications; liability. All water main extensions,
whether they be installed by private individuals or the town utilities
authority, must first be approved by the Board of Trustees. A plat must be
filed with the town offices showing exact location of extensions, size of line
that is proposed to be laid, and the number of services that the line is to
serve. No line smaller than two inches shall be considered a water main. The
town may alter the plans of any proposed extensions that are to be laid under
the supervision of the Water Superintendent or his or her designated
representatives from the town utilities authority. When a main extension has
been approved, laid and tested to the satisfaction of the town, it shall become
a part of the system and will be owned, operated and maintained by the town;
and the town shall have full authority to operate same as any other part of the
system under existing ordinances. The town shall be absolved of all personal or
property damage during time of construction, and the contractor laying the
extension shall file proper bond and insurance to the satisfaction of the town.
   (B)   Extension outside town limits. Where a water main extension is
requested outside the town limits of the town by any person, firm, or
corporation, the foregoing policy will be in effect, with the following
exception: the party making the request will enter into a contract with the
town prior to the time of construction if the town approves, and the town shall
have full authority over such construction.
   (C)   Materials. All material used in any water main extension shall meet
town utilities authority specifications.
   (D)   Street surfacing. All water lines and connections must be in place
before asphalt street surfacing is applied.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-13) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 51.14 CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Water from other source; permission required. No service connection
shall be allowed to the town water mains for any premises supplied by water
from any other source unless the town utilities authority grants permission.
The town utilities authority may terminate such permission at any time. The
town utilities authority shall have power to prescribe reasonable regulations
for the use of water from another source on premises having a connection with
the water system.
   (B)   Cross connection prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause a
connection to be made or to allow one to exist for any purpose whatsoever
between the town water supply and any other supply upon his, her or its
premises, and where another supply exists upon any premises, the owner shall be
required to make a customer’s declaration of nonexistence of cross connection
upon a form supplied by the town utilities authority before he, she or it shall
be permitted to obtain, or continue to use, water from the town water system.
      (2)   Town water service shall be discontinued upon any premises upon
which there is found to be a connection with the town water supply; and such
service shall not be restored until such cross connection has been
disconnected.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.15 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE.
   Water service for fire protection shall be fitted for such fixtures as are
needed for fire protection and entirely disconnected from those used for other
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-15)
§ 51.16 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Interference. It is unlawful for any person not duly authorized by the
town utilities authority or a member of the Fire Department in the town to
open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect
any thing with any fire hydrant or stopcock belonging to the town.
   (B)   Obstructing access. It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access
to any fire hydrant in any manner whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Obstructing firefighters, see § 34.11
§ 51.17 WATER SHORTAGE.
   (A)   In case of emergency caused by a shortage of water in the town water
system, it shall be the duty of the town utilities authority to give immediate
notice by publication to the water consumers of the system restricting use of
water obtained from the system for any purpose other than domestic use, and
such other use as they may designate, for so long as such water shortage shall
last.
   (B)   Thereafter, and until the town utilities authority proclaims the
emergency at an end, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation,
during the existence of the emergency, to use water obtained from the town
water system for purpose of watering or sprinkling a lawn, flower bed, park,
hedge or garden, or to use said water for any purpose other than domestic use
and other uses as the town utilities authority shall designate.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.18 POLLUTION OF WATER SUPPLY.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit excrement or
foul decaying matter in, or in any manner to corrupt, any reservoir or other
source of water used for domestic purposes, or to aid or abet in any such act.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.19 WATER WELL PERMIT AND FEES.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drill a water well
with in the town without first obtaining a permit from the town and paying the
required fees. The fees for a permit to drill a water well shall be as set
forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees. The Town Board may change or alter fees hereafter
by resolution.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-10-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.20 UTILITY COLLECTION FEE.
   A collection fee of 35% of utility penalties and fees in cases in which the
consumer has failed to satisfy a monetary obligation imposed by the
municipality shall be added to any such case which is referred to a collection
agency for collection.
(Ord. 379, passed 12-9-2020)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER SERVICE
Section
   
52.01   Declaration of public utility
   
52.02   Findings
   
52.03   Definitions
   
52.04   Sewer tapping fee
   
52.05   Connection requirements
   
52.06   User charge schedule
   
52.07   Billing and penalties
   
52.08   Building sewers and connections
   
52.09   Regulation of sewer use
   
52.10   Private sewage disposal
   
52.11   Discharges and standards
   
52.12   Toxic pollutants charges
   
52.13   Records
   
52.14   Injury to sewer
   
52.15   Powers of inspectors
   
52.16   Backflow preventer valves
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC UTILITY.
   The sanitary sewer system of the town is hereby declared to be a public
utility, and a proper source of revenue for the upkeep and maintenance of said
system, and for other purposes.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 52.02 FINDINGS.
   The town utilities authority hereby finds and determines as follows.
   (A)   Connection to sewer. To properly protect the health of the citizens of
the town it is desirable that all plumbing in the town be connected to the
sanitary sewer of the town.
   (B)   Charges. In order to make sewer service available, it is necessary
that a charge be made in order to pay for the sanitary sewer system and to
service the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
§ 52.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The symbols and definitions used in this chapter will be as defined by the
United States environmental protection agency.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
§ 52.04 SEWER TAPPING FEE.
   There is hereby created a sewer tapping fee as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees for tapping of any sewer main or lateral, which fee
shall be paid by the applicant at the time of and in addition to securing the
necessary permit for such improvement, and no part of such fee or cost shall be
refunded.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4)
§ 52.05 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All sewer pipe from residences or buildings served to the town main shall be
constructed of four inch, schedule 40 PVC, or 1,000 foot-pound plastic sewer
pipe.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5)
§ 52.06 USER CHARGE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All users of the municipally owned wastewater treatment system will be
assessed a charge, according to current rates set by the town utilities
authority per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption.
   (B)   In the case of users not on a metered water basis, an estimate of
water consumption will be made by the Water Superintendent based on user class
by comparing the nonmetered user with a metered user of a similar class.
   (C)   For example, a family of four with no water meter will be compared to
a typical family of four with water use readings in order to accurately
estimate water consumption.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6)
§ 52.07 BILLING AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Schedule. All users will be billed on a monthly schedule with payment
due within 15 days after date of billing.
   (B)   Billing with water charges. Users on metered water service will be
billed for sewer charges on the same notice as the water charges and said sewer
charges will be shown as a separate entry.
   (C)   Nonusers of water system. Users of the wastewater system not on
metered water service will be billed monthly on an individual notice for
wastewater disposal at the appropriate rate established by the Town Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   Management. The town offices will utilize the law enforcement agency
to assist as required in the control and management of the user charge
schedule.
   (E)   (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
         (c)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or in
writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official in charge of
utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7) (Ord. 264, passed 7-8-1992; Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 52.08 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   Costs and expenses; indemnification.
      (1)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection
of a building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
      (2)   The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (C)   Separate building sewers. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (D)   Old sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with new
buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Methods and materials. The size, slope, alignment, materials of
construction of a building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town.
   (F)   Elevation.
      (1)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
      (2)   In any building in which the building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (G)   Surface water. No person shall make connection of roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (H)   Compliance with regulations. The connection of the building sewer into
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
code or other applicable rules and regulations of the town.
   (I)   Notification of Superintendent.
      (1)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer.
      (2)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (J)   Hazards to public; restoration of public ways. All excavations for
building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and
lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways
and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored
in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 REGULATION OF SEWER USE.
   (A)   Prohibited deposits. It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town,
any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Discharge to natural outlets. It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said
town, any sewage or other polluted wastes, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this section.
   (C)   Privies and septic tanks. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   Facilities and connection required. The owner of all houses, buildings
or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other
purpose, situated within the town and abutting on any street, alley or right-
of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public
sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with provisions
of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do so,
provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet (30.15 meters) of the
property line.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.09, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section as follows.
   (A)   Permit. Before commencement of construction of a private sewage
disposal system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as is deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees shall be paid to the town at the time the
application is filed in the absence of inspection by the County Health
Department.
   (B)   Inspection. A permit for a private disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (C)   Specifications. The type, capacities, location and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department
of Public Health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area
of the lot is less than that required by the State Department of Health. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (D)   Operation and maintenance. The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the town.
   (E)   Additional requirements. No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the health officer.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-10) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 DISCHARGES AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Surface and process waters. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water. Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or
storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Permitted discharges. Septic tank waste, portable toilet waste,
recreational vehicle waste and other such wastes that are not prohibited by
division (D) below may be hauled and discharged directly into the town’s
wastewater treatment plant at a designated receiving location within such area,
at such times as are established by the Town Administrator.
   (D)   Prohibited discharges. No user permitted to discharge by division (C)
above shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the town’s wastewater
treatment plant any pollutant or wastewater that creates pass-through or other
interference with the existing operation of the plant. Furthermore, no user may
directly discharge the following substances into the plant:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the town
wastewater collection system and publicly owned treatment works, including, but
not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of less than 140º
Fahrenheit/60º Celsius using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.5 or more than 9.0 or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the publicly owned treatment
works or equipment or endangering personnel;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the publicly owned treatment works resulting in interference,
but in no case solids greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or
pollutant concentration which, either singly or by interaction with other
pollutants, will cause interference with either the publicly owned treatment
works or any wastewater treatment or sludge process or which will constitute a
hazard to humans or animals;
      (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 65º Celsius/150º
Fahrenheit or which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant
resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the
temperature at the introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 40º Celsius/
104º Fahrenheit);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the publicly owned treatment works in a quantity that may cause
acute worker health and safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge locations
designated by the city, in accordance with division (C) above;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance, a hazard to life or to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any wastewater which imparts color that cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the publicly owned treatment works National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit. Color, in combination with
turbidity, shall not cause the treatment plant effluent to reduce the depth of
the compensation point for photosynthetic activity by more than 10% from the
seasonable established norm for aquatic life;
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes,
except as specifically approved by the Town Administrator in compliance with
applicable federal or state regulations;
      (12)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the Town Administrator;
      (13)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the Town
Administrator in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a
toxicity test;
      (16)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the publicly owned treatment
works; and
      (17)   Any discharge of fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable
origin is limited to 100 mg/l.
   (E)   User fee schedule. The users described in the Appendix of Fines and
Fees shall pay (in advance together with information as required by the Town
Administrator) the fees set forth below prior to each and every discharge
authorized by division (C) above.
   (F)   Access. Any person or entity can gain access by requesting such
service Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. through 4:30 p.m., from the Town Hall.
Local town businesses can gain access by requesting a key for 24-hour access.
Out of town businesses can obtain a key for 24-hour access by paying the
minimum fee set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees for access. All key
holders will be required to record each dump (amount, date and time) and place
it in the provided lock box. Billing will be done at the end of the month with
Net 10 terms.
   (G)   Authority of Superintendent.
      (1)   Deleterious substances; action by Superintendent. If any waters or
wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged, to the public sewers,
which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated
in division (D) of this section, and which in the judgment of the
Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
52.12.
      (2)   Review and approval. If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment
or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent,
and subject to the requirement of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (H)   Interceptors. Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided
when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be owned and maintained by the
users and not the town.
   (I)   Maintenance of facilities. Where preliminary treatment or flow
equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his or her expense.
   (J)   Manholes. When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (K)   Standards.
      (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
water and wastes to which reference is made in this section shall be determined
in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association,
and shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable
samples taken at said control manhole.
      (2)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property.
      (3)   The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outlets of premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or
samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.
   (L)   Dilution prohibited. Dilution of waste streams containing toxic
materials and metals shall not be construed to be treatment or disposal of the
toxic materials or metals and shall not be allowed at any point in the sewer
system.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-11) (Ord. 387, passed 11-30-2023) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.12 TOXIC POLLUTANTS CHARGES.
   Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent of the treatment works shall pay for such
increased costs.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-12)
§ 52.13 RECORDS.
   Adequate record keeping procedures will be maintained in order to document
compliance with federal and state regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-13)
§ 52.14 INJURY TO SEWER.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structures, appurtenances
or equipment which are a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-14) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.15 POWERS OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Inspection and sampling. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point where they have
a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   Safety. While performing the necessary work on private properties
referred to in division (A) of this section, the Superintendent or duly
authorized employees of the town shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the town employees, and the town shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage asserted against the company and growing out of
the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence
or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
52.11(G).
   (C)   Easements. The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-15)
§ 52.16 BACKFLOW PREVENTER VALVES.
   (A)   Backflow preventer valve required. A backflow preventer valve
(approved by the Town Administrator or his or her delegate) is required to be
installed on all new and replaced sanitary sewer lines for any residence,
commercial building or other structure.
   (B)   Location of backflow preventer valve.   A backflow preventer valve
shall be installed so that access is provided to the working parts for service
and repair. If installed under concrete or asphalt paving such as sidewalks,
driveways or parking areas, the valve shall be installed in a permanent box or
access enclosure whose lid is flush with grade. If installed under soil and
ground cover vegetation, a valve is considered to be accessible.
   (C)   Backflow preventer valve maintenance. No person shall remove or render
inoperable a backflow preventer valve. It is the responsibility of the property
owner to maintain any backflow preventer valve installed by the property owner
or his or her predecessor in operable condition.
   (D)   Liability. Any property owner that is required to install and maintain
a backflow preventer valve pursuant to this section shall be liable and
responsible for any damages (of any kind or nature) resulting from a sewer
backup to the owner’s property.
(Ord. 385, passed 12-14-2023) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation. Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions
of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Liability. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by
the town by reason of such violation.
   (C)   State standards. Any user discharging a waste to the sewer system
which causes the treatment facility to violate state water quality standards
shall be subject to enforcement action by the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-16)
   (D)   Any person or entity who violates any provisions of §
52.11(C) and (D) or who files a false application as required herein, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding the fine amount
set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees. Each discharge which constitutes a
violation of this §
52.11(C) and (D) shall be considered a separate offense.
   (E)   Any person or entity who violates any provisions of §
52.16, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding the
fine amount set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees.
(Ord. 385, passed 12-14-2023; Ord. 387, passed 11-30-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   DRIVING RULES AND REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS
      
75.   VEHICLE CONDITION AND EQUIPMENT
      
76.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
77.   PEDESTRIANS
      
78.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
79.   RAILROADS
      
80.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Administration; Applicability
   
70.01   Uniform Vehicle Code
   
70.02   Emergency and experimental regulations
   
70.03   Police and Fire departments; duties
   
70.04   Public officers and employees
   
70.05   Pushcarts, animals and animal drawn vehicles
   
70.06   Persons working on streets; exceptions
   
70.07   Maintenance and construction zones
   
70.08   Accidents
Definitions
   
70.20   Definitions
Impoundment
   
70.35   Authority to impound vehicles
   
70.36   Impoundment for certain causes
   
70.37   Fine and costs
   
70.38   Nuisance; penalty
Enforcement
   
70.50   Violation
   
70.51   Eluding peace officer
   
70.52   Citation tags
   
70.53   Failure to comply with citation tags
   
70.54   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
70.55   Complaint and warrant
 
   
70.99   Penalty
ADMINISTRATION; APPLICABILITY
§ 70.01 UNIFORM VEHICLE CODE.
   The state motor vehicle laws as set forth in O.S. Title 47, as amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully and to the same
extent as if set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 70.02 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authority of Board.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, is hereby empowered
to make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of this town and to
make temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions.
      (2)   No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than 90 days.
   (B)   Testing devices. The Town Board of Trustees may have traffic control
devices tested under actual conditions of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)
§ 70.03 POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS; DUTIES.
   (A)   Duty of Police Department. It is the duty of the Police Department to
enforce the street traffic regulations of this town and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this town, to make arrests for
traffic violations, to investigate accidents and to cooperate with other
officers of the town in the administration of the traffic laws and in
developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions and to carry out those
duties specially imposed upon the Department by this chapter and any other
traffic ordinances of this town.
   (B)   Directing traffic. Officers of the Police Department or such officers
as are assigned by the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws and
ordinances; provided that, in the event of a fire or other emergency, or to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department
may direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of
the traffic laws and ordinances.
   (C)   Fire Department. Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of
a fire or other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic
thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
   (D)   Compliance with direction. No person shall willfully fail or refuse to
comply with any lawful order or direction of a police officer or Fire
Department official.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 70.04 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, any state, county,
town or other governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles; and it
is unlawful for any driver to violate any of the provisions of this title
except as otherwise permitted in this title or by state statute; provided that
this title shall not apply to the military forces of the United States and
organizations of the national guard when performing any military duty.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PUSHCARTS, ANIMALS AND ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 70.06 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title except
those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated shall not
apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair
of public utilities; provided that all highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flaggers; but
the provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6)
§ 70.07 MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   Authority to close street. Town personnel or contractors, while
repairing or improving the streets of the town, and town personnel and utility
companies when installing, improving or repairing lines or other utility
facilities in the streets, are hereby authorized as necessary, subject to
control by the Town Board of Trustees, to close any street or section thereof
to traffic during such repair, maintenance or construction; and in exercising
such authority, shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   (B)   Compliance with street closure. When any street has been closed to
traffic under the provisions of division (A) of this section and traffic
control devices or barricades have been erected, it is unlawful for any person
to drive any vehicle through, under, over or around such traffic control
devices or barricades or otherwise to enter the closed area; except that the
provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to persons entering therein for
the protection of lives or property; provided that persons having their places
of residence or places of business within the closed area may travel, when
possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   (C)   Traffic control devices. Whenever construction, repair or maintenance
of any street or utility line or facility is being performed under traffic, the
town personnel, contractor or utility company concerned shall erect or cause to
be erected traffic control devices to warn and guide the public; and every
person using such street shall obey all signs, signals, markings, flaggers or
other traffic control devices which are placed to regulate, control and guide
traffic through the construction or maintenance area.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7)
§ 70.08 ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Duty to give information. Every driver of a motor vehicle after
participating in or causing an accident by collision or otherwise, or injuring
any person or property, shall forthwith stop and give his or her name and
address, the name and address of each occupant of the motor vehicle driven by
himself or herself, and the license number of his or her vehicle, to any person
demanding the same, and after affording every reasonable assistance to the
injured person or animal report the accident forthwith to the police.
   (B)   Report.
      (1)   Damage to property. The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner
involved in an accident in which it is apparent that damage to one vehicle or
other property is in excess of $100 shall, as soon as practicable, report such
accident to a police officer or to the Police Department.
      (2)   Injury. The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting
in injury or death of any person shall immediately, by the quickest means of
communication, give notice of such accident to the local Police Department, if
such accident occurs within a municipality, or to the office of the county
sheriff or to the nearest office of the State Highway Patrol.
   (C)   State law. Every driver of a motor vehicle who is involved in an
accident is further subject to such provisions as are set forth in 47 O.S. §§
10-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8)
DEFINITIONS
§ 70.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is more than 20 inches in
diameter.
   BOULEVARD. Such streets as shall be designated by the police as having the
right-of-way over intersecting streets.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and
used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than a
taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when 50% or more of the frontage of either side of the street or
highway for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings designed
for and used for business.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CURB. The boundary of any street or roadway.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FIRE LANE. Any street set aside by the Police Department to be kept clear of
parked vehicles for the convenience of the Fire Department in answering fire
alarms.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel. The words HIGHWAY and STREET are synonymous
herein.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and motor scooter, equipped with a
motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower at full throttle
without a governor as determined by a dynamometer test and designed to travel
on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every motor vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor or a motorized bicycle.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. Every vehicle having fully operative pedals for
propulsion by human power, an automatic transmission and a motor with a
cyclinder capacity not exceeding 50 cubic centimeters, which produces no more
than two brake horsepower, and is capable of propelling the vehicle at a
maximum design speed of not more than 30 mph on level ground.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, barricades, signals, markings
and devices not inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of
a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL WARNING AND DIRECTION SIGNS AND SIGNALS. All warning and direction
signs and signals not inconsistent with the terms of this chapter heretofore or
hereafter placed or erected under the provisions of this chapter by authority
of the police.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of any vehicle.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Town Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violation of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, diesel, electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RESIDENT DISTRICTS. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein refers to any
such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE OR ISLAND. An area or space officially set apart within a
roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so
marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times
while set apart as a safety zone or island.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation from movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
   STREET. Every way set apart for public travel except alleys, alleyways,
bridle paths and footpaths.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicle traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-of-way to
vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together, while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of a quarter of a
mile or more.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excluding those upon stationary rails
or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 70.35 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are authorized to remove a vehicle from a
street or highway to a garage whenever possible or other place of safety, or to
a garage designated or maintained by the Police Department, or otherwise
maintained by this town, under the circumstances enumerated below. In an effort
to keep costs associated with such actions to a minimum, a local wrecker
service will be used whenever possible. If a local wrecker is unavailable, a
wrecker service listed in the rotation contact list will be contacted for
service:
   (A)   Bridges, causeways, tunnels. When any vehicle is left unattended upon
any bridge, viaduct or causeway, or in any tube or tunnel where such vehicle
constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
   (B)   Disabled vehicles. When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to
constitute an obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the
vehicle are by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to
be unable to provide for its custody or removal; and
   (C)   Hazard to traffic. When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street
and is so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to
the normal movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-1) (Ord. 338, passed 6-10-2010)
§ 70.36 IMPOUNDMENT FOR CERTAIN CAUSES.
   From and after the effective date hereof, the Chief of Police of the town
shall be and is hereby authorized and directed to cause the impoundment in any
public or private storage yard or place of vehicles under the following
circumstances:
   (A)   Private property; complaint. When such vehicle is parked on private
property without the consent first had and obtained of the owner, occupant or
person in charge of said private property, and after complaint in written form
signed by said owner, occupant or person in charge of such property;
   (B)   Blocking driveway or alley. When any such vehicle is found parked in
front of, or blocking, any private driveway or public alley;
   (C)   Curb and private property. When such vehicle is found parked between
the curb of a public street and a private property line, unless permitted under
this code; or
   (D)   Unpaid parking tickets. When such vehicle has had issued against it
three or more parking tickets, which parking tickets are delinquent and unpaid
on the date of such impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-2)
§ 70.37 FINE AND COSTS.
   (A)   Prior to the impoundment of any vehicle found in violation of the
provisions of §
70.36 of this chapter, a written complaint shall be signed by the owner of
private property, or the occupant or person in charge thereof, or by the
investigating officer, and said complaint shall be verified by the Town
Attorney after investigation. Said complaint shall thereafter be filed with the
Clerk of the Municipal Court of the town. Upon the payment of the fine
hereinafter fixed, either on plea of guilty or after conviction, and after the
payment of any other penalties, and in particular those required in §
70.36 of this chapter, the Clerk of said Court shall issue to the owner of any
such vehicle a receipt for the payment of the fine and other penalties lawfully
assessed against the owner.
   (B)   The owner of said vehicle, upon presentation of the receipt to the
owner or person in charge of the storage yard or place in which his or her said
vehicle has been impounded, shall be entitled to have delivered over to him or
her, his or her vehicle after the payment of towing and storage charges.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-3)
§ 70.38 NUISANCE; PENALTY.
   Any owner of a vehicle found in violation of the provisions of §
70.36 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of creating a public nuisance,
which said violation is hereby declared to be, and, upon plea of guilty or
conviction thereof, shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, which shall be in addition to any other
penalties lawfully assessed against said owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-4)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.50 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Violation. It is unlawful and an offense against the town for any
person, firm or corporation to do any act forbidden, or to fail to perform any
act required, in this title.
   (B)   Responsibility of parent. It is unlawful for a parent of a child or
the guardian of a ward to authorize or knowingly to permit any such child or
ward to violate any provision of this title.
   (C)   Responsibility of owner. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to authorize or knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his,
her or its name to be driven or to stand or to be parked in violation of any
provision of this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.51 ELUDING PEACE OFFICER.
   Any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual and audible
signal, a red light and a siren, from a police officer driving a motor vehicle
with insignia showing the same to be an official police, sheriff or highway
patrol car, directing the operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, and
who willfully increases his or her speed or extinguishes his or her lights in
an attempt to elude such police officer or wilfully attempts in any other
manner to elude the police officer, or who does elude such police officer
within the town, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-3)
§ 70.52 CITATION TAGS.
   (A)   Authority; form.
      (1)   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this title by delivering citation tags to violators or,
in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation of
this title, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred.
      (2)   Such citation tags shall indicate briefly the charge, shall bear
the registration number of the vehicle, and shall direct the violator to
present the tag at the police station or other designated place within five
days or such other reasonable time as may be specified thereon. Nothing in this
section shall abridge the power to arrest any violator and to take him or her
into custody, or to file a complaint against him or her, at any time.
   (B)   Regulation by Board. The Town Board of Trustees may require that the
police officers use citation tags furnished by the town offices and that such
tags be serially numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of citation
tags.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-4) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 70.53 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CITATION TAGS.
   If a violator of any provision of this title who has been given a citation
tag as provided above fails to appear in accordance with the instructions on
such tag, the Chief of Police or his or her authorized agent shall send to the
owner of the vehicle involved a letter or other written notice informing him or
her of the violation and warning him or her to appear as directed and that, in
the event such letter or notice is disregarded for a period of ten days, a
complaint will be filed and warrant of arrest issued; provided that nothing in
this section shall abridge the power to file a complaint against him or her
prior to the expiration of such time.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-5)
§ 70.54 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   Prima facie evidence. In any prosecution charging a violation of any
law or regulation governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that
the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of
any such law or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle,
shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered
owner of such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the
point where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
   (B)   Applicability. The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when
the procedure of giving a citation tag has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-6)
§ 70.55 COMPLAINT AND WARRANT.
   In the event any person fails to comply with a citation tag given to such
person or attached to a vehicle, the Chief of Police shall have a complaint
entered against such person before the Municipal Judge, and the Municipal Judge
shall issue a warrant for his or her arrest.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-7)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association, corporation or copartnership who shall
violate any of the provisions of the penal code of the state as adopted herein,
or any provision of this title, shall severally for each and every such
violation be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, may be punished
by a fine and costs as set forth in the penal code or a fine and costs as set
forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, whichever is less. The imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit if it
continues.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-2)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Authority to install
   
71.02   Manual and specifications
   
71.03   Obedience required
   
71.04   Enforcement
   
71.05   Traffic control signal legend
   
71.06   Flashing signals
   
71.07   Pedestrian control signals
   
71.08   Pedestrian actuated school crossing signals
   
71.09   Unauthorized signs, signals or markings
   
71.10   Interference with devices or railroad signals
   
71.11   Play streets
   
71.12   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
71.13   Traffic lanes
§ 71.01 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, shall have placed and
maintained traffic control signs, signals and devices when and as required
under the traffic ordinances of this town to make effective the provisions of
such ordinances, and may have placed and maintained such additional traffic
control signs, signals and devices as it may deem necessary to regulate traffic
under the traffic ordinances of this town or under state law or to guide or
warn traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1)
§ 71.02 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the State Highway Department. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable
be uniform as to type and location throughout the town. All traffic control
devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or
this chapter shall be official traffic control devices.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2)
§ 71.03 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instruction of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter or law, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3)
§ 71.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   (B)   Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required,
such section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4)
§ 71.05 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   When traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the words
“Go”, “Caution” or “Stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights successively
one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used, and the
terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “go”.
      (1)   Vehicles. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight
through or turn right or left unless a sign or barricade at such place
prohibits either such turn; but vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning
right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the
time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians. Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone.
      (1)   Vehicles. Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned
that the red or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and
such vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the
red or “Stop” signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians. Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised
that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then
starting to cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Steady red alone, or “stop”.
      (1)   Vehicles. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then
before entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “Go”
is shown alone, or, while the signal is still red, vehicular traffic may turn
right from the appropriate lane after coming to the required stop, unless
otherwise provided by the town, or unless hereinafter provided. Such vehicular
traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   Right turns. In order to prohibit right turns on the red signal
after the required stop, the town must erect clear, concise signs informing
drivers that such turns are prohibited. The State Highway Department shall
specify the design of the sign to be used for this purpose and it shall be used
uniformly throughout the state.
      (3)   Pedestrians. No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the
roadway unless he or she can do so safely and without interfering with any
vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Steady red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicles. Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter
the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall
yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians. No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the
roadway until the green or “Go” is shown alone or until authorized so to do by
pedestrian “Walk” signal.
   (E)   Signals not at intersections. In the event an official traffic control
signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the
provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions of
this section which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required
shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop
shall be made; but, in the absence of any such sign or marking, the stop shall
be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5)
§ 71.06 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Regulated. Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is
used in a traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular
traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   Railroad crossings. This section shall not apply at railroad grade
crossings.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6)
§ 71.07 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Wait” or “Don’t Walk” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait or don’t walk. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his or her crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety
island while the wait signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7)
§ 71.08 PEDESTRIAN ACTUATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS.
   Whenever a pedestrian actuated school crossing signal is provided, it
requires obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Flashing yellow.
      (1)   Vehicles. When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent
flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection
or pass such signal only with caution.
      (2)   Pedestrians. Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with
traffic, but may actuate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady
red alone is shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by
the signal.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone.
      (1)   Vehicles. Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned
that the red or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and
such vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass
the signal when the red or “Stop” signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians. No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection
on which the signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
   (C)   Steady red.
      (1)   Vehicles. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, then
before passing the signal or entering the intersection and shall remain
standing until flashing yellow is shown alone.
      (2)   Pedestrians. Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by
the signal, and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8)
§ 71.09 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view
of any highway an unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports
to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or
which projects any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control
device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   Commercial advertising. No person shall place or maintain nor shall
any public authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign, signal or device
bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   (C)   Directional information. This section shall not prohibit the erection
upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Nuisance. Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance; and the town is hereby empowered to
remove the same without notice.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   Establishment. The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution,
shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play street and to
have placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping
to protect the same.
   (B)   Restrictions on use. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle
upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having
business or whose residences are within such closed area; and then any such
driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized:
   (A)   Crosswalks. To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks
or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in
its opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and
at such other places as it may deem necessary; and
   (B)   Safety zones. To establish safety zones or islands of such kind and
character and at such places as it may deem necessary for the protection of
pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-12)
§ 71.13 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   Authority to establish. The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or
resolution, is hereby authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway
of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   (B)   Compliance. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful
for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within
the boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: DRIVING RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   License required
   
72.002   Mail vehicles
   
72.003   Reckless or careless driving
   
72.004   Intoxicating liquor or drugs
   
72.005   Tampering with motor vehicles
   
72.006   Funerals and processions
   
72.007   Driving on sidewalk
   
72.008   Driving through safety zone
   
72.009   Starting parked vehicle
   
72.010   Limitations on backing
   
72.011   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
72.012   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
72.013   Obstruction to driver
   
72.014   Unlawful riding
   
72.015   Controlled access
   
72.016   Dangerous objects in streets
   
72.017   Coasters and roller skates
Driving, Overtaking and Passing
   
72.030   Driving on right side of roadway
   
72.031   Vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
72.032   Overtaking on left
   
72.033   Limitations on overtaking on left
   
72.034   Overtaking on right
   
72.035   No passing zone
   
72.036   Roadways laned for traffic
   
72.037   Following too closely
Turning Movements
   
72.050   Intersections
   
72.051   Turning markers
   
72.052   Restricted turn signs
   
72.053   U-turns
   
72.054   Turning movements
   
72.055   Signals
   
72.056   Unlawful turning
Speed Regulations
   
72.070   Prudent speed
   
72.071   Limits established
   
72.072   Driving too slowly
   
72.073   Squealing tires
Emergency Vehicles and Equipment
   
72.085   Interference with firefighters
   
72.086   Fire apparatus
   
72.087   Emergency vehicles
   
72.088   Duty of drivers
   
72.089   Notification of runs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Driver’s license. It is unlawful for any person who does not have a
driver’s license as required by state law for operation of a motor vehicle upon
the state highway to operate a motor vehicle within the town.
   (B)   Permitting unlicensed person to drive. It is unlawful for any person
to authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him or her or under
his or her control to be driven upon any street in the town by any person who
is not authorized or licensed to drive a motor vehicle under the laws of the
state of Oklahoma or under the laws of the state of the driver’s residence.
   (C)   State license. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a
street of the town without a state vehicle license as may be required by law or
to fail to display the state vehicle license as may be required by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.002 MAIL VEHICLES.
   Nothing in this code shall be construed to prevent the vehicles of the
United States Postal Department, while engaged in the business of said
Department, or the duly authorized and licensed operators of such vehicles in
pursuance of their duties under said Department from:
   (A)   Double parking. Double parking such vehicles while engaged in
collecting and delivering U.S. mail;
   (B)   Running motor. Leaving the vehicle while the motor is running in a
double parked condition without a licensed operator therein;
   (C)   Loading and taxi zones. Using areas designated as “loading zones” and
“taxi zones” for the collection and delivery of the U.S. mail;
   (D)   Parking in alley. Leaving the vehicle parked in an alley where less
than ten feet of alley width remains for the use of through traffic; and
   (E)   Passenger loading zones. The use of designated passenger loading
zones, however, such exemptions shall apply only for the purpose of momentary
stops for mail pick up and delivery and shall not permit the use of such areas
for the general mail delivery.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2)
§ 72.003 RECKLESS OR CARELESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Reckless driving. Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner
without regard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless
driving and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in this
title.
   (B)   Careless driving or stopping. It is unlawful for a person to drive,
use, operate, park, cause to be parked or stop any vehicle in a careless or
negligent manner, or in such manner as to endanger life, limb, person or
property, or as to interfere with the lawful movement of traffic or use of the
streets.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.004 INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR DRUGS.
   (A)   Driving under influence. It is unlawful for any person who is under
the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs to drive or be in actual physical
control of any vehicle within the town.
   (B)   Blood alcohol content. It is unlawful for any person to operate a
motor vehicle while impaired under the influence of alcohol with a blood
alcohol content of 0.08.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.005 TAMPERING WITH MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall, without the consent of the owner or the person in charge of
a motor vehicle, change the position of the levers, switches or other parts of
said motor vehicle or in any way use, occupy, injure, deface, scratch, cut,
tamper with or molest any motor vehicle. Provided that this section shall not
apply in case of moving or starting of motor vehicle by police or peace
officers for lawful purposes, nor by members of the Fire Department in case of
emergency in the vicinity of a fire, nor the changing of the position of said
motor vehicle temporarily without starting the motor of the same by anyone for
the purpose of extracting or removing another vehicle from a congested
position.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.006 FUNERALS AND PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Driving through procession. No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in
this section. This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers.
   (B)   Drivers in procession. Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
   (C)   Funeral processions to be identified. A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the
outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by such
other method as may be determined and designated by the Police Department.
   (D)   Permits. No funeral, procession or parade containing 200 or more
persons or 50 or more vehicles, except the military forces of the United States
and the military forces of this state, shall occupy, march or proceed along any
street except in accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and
such other regulations as are set forth herein which may apply.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.007 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or within any
sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.008 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone or
island.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.009 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.010 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.011 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.012 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.013 OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER.
   (A)   Number of persons. No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so
loaded or when there are in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding
three, as to obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the
vehicle or as to interfere with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism
of the vehicle.
   (B)   Position of passengers. No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such
position as to interfere with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to
interfere with his or her control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.014 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within closed truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.015 CONTROLLED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.016 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed, or let fall
and remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass, stick or
other thing which is likely to injure persons or damage property or to render a
street unsafe for traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.017 COASTERS AND ROLLER SKATES.
   (A)   Prohibited on streets. No person upon roller skates or roller blades
or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy vehicle or similar device shall be
upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk; and so
crossing, such person shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject
to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not apply
upon any street while set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinance of
this town.
   (B)   Clinging to vehicles. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, roller blades, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or
himself or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-17) Penalty, see §
70.99
DRIVING, OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 72.030 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Required; exceptions. Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle
shall be driven upon the right half of the roadway except as follows:
      (1)   Passing vehicle. When overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   Construction. When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic
while under construction or repair;
      (3)   Three lanes. Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for
traffic under the rules applicable thereon; and
      (4)   One-way traffic. Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-
way traffic.
   (B)   Slow vehicles. Upon all roadways, any vehicles proceeding at less than
the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then
existing shall be driven in the right hand lane then available for traffic, or
as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except
when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-1)
§ 72.031 VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right; and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-2)
§ 72.032 OVERTAKING ON LEFT.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   Passing on left. The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe
distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Overtaken vehicle to give way. Except when overtaking and passing on
the right is permitted, the driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to
the right in favor of the overtaking vehicle and shall not increase the speed
of his or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   Signal required. Every driver who intends to pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, which requires moving his or her vehicle from
one lane of traffic to another, shall first see that such movement can be made
with safety and shall proceed to pass only after giving a proper signal by hand
or mechanical device.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.033 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON LEFT.
   (A)   Conditions for overtaking.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right
hand side of the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction.
   (B)   Conditions when prohibited. No vehicle shall at any time be driven to
the left side of the roadway under the following conditions:
      (1)   Grade or curve. When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a
curve in the highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance
as to create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the
opposite direction;
      (2)   Intersection or railroad crossing. When approaching within 100 feet
of or traversing an intersection or railroad grade crossing; and
      (3)   Bridges or tunnels. When the view is obstructed upon approaching
within 100 feet of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (C)   Exception. The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.034 OVERTAKING ON RIGHT.
   (A)   Conditions. The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the
right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   Left turn. When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a
left turn;
      (2)   Street of sufficient width. Upon a street or highway with
unobstructed pavement not occupied by parked vehicles of sufficient width for
two or more lines of moving vehicles in each direction; and
      (3)   One-way street. Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which
traffic is restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free
from obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving
vehicles.
   (B)   Driving off pavement. The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass
another vehicle upon the right only under conditions permitting such movement
in safety. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement
or main traveled portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-5)
§ 72.035 NO PASSING ZONE.
   (A)   Establishment. The State Department of Highways as regards state and
federal highways, and the Town Board of Trustees as regards all other streets,
are hereby authorized to determine those portions of a highway where overtaking
and passing or driving to the left of the roadway would be especially
hazardous, and shall by appropriate signs or markings on the roadway have the
beginning and end of such zones indicated. When such signs or markings are in
place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant person, every driver of a
vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Compliance. Where signs or markings are in place to define a no
passing zone as set forth in division (A) of this section, no driver shall at
any time drive to the left side of the roadway within such no passing zone or
on the left side of any pavement striping designed to mark such no passing zone
throughout its length.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-6)
§ 72.036 ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   Driving within lane. A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as
practicable entirely within a single lane, and shall not be moved from such
lane until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made with
safety.
   (B)   Driving in center lane. Upon a roadway which is divided into three
lanes, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking
and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such
center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance or in preparation for a
left turn, or where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to
traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to
give notice of such allocation.
   (C)   Signs. Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to
use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving
in a particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers
of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-7)
§ 72.037 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 72.050 INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. The approach for a right turn shall be made as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roads. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection; and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection. In no event shall any person execute a left
turn across any lane for oncoming traffic for the purpose of occupying a
parking place on the opposite side of the street from the original direction of
travel, except to enter a parking lot or private driveway.
   (C)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle; and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-1)
§ 72.051 TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   Authority. The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, is
authorized to have placed markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to
intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such
intersections; and such course to be traveled as so indicated may conform to or
be other than as prescribed by law or ordinance.
   (B)   Obedience to markers. When authorized markers, buttons or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such indications.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-2)
§ 72.052 RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, is hereby
authorized to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall
not make a right, left or U-turn and shall have placed proper signs at such
intersections.
      (2)   The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of
any day and permitted at other hours; in which event the same shall be plainly
indicated on the signs, or they may be removed when such turns are permitted.
   (B)   Obedience. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no
right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-3)
§ 72.053 U-TURNS.
   (A)   Restrictions. The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so
as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in the town, except at
an intersection; and furthermore, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to
make such a turn at any intersection:
      (1)   Traffic control signals. Where traffic control signals are
installed;
      (2)   Officer directing traffic. Where a police officer is directing
traffic except at the latter’s direction; or
      (3)   No turn sign. Where an official no U-turn sign has been placed and
is maintained.
   (B)   Safe turns. When otherwise permitted, a U-turn may be made only when
it can be made in safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.054 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Safe movement; signals.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the
vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required by ordinance; or
turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle
from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway, unless and until
such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   No person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate
signal in the manner hereinafter provided in the event any other traffic may be
affected by such movement.
   (B)   Manner of signaling. A signal of intention to turn right or left when
required shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   (C)   Decreasing speed. No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed
of a vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided
herein to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is
opportunity to give such signal.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-5)
§ 72.055 SIGNALS.
   (A)   Manner of signaling. Any stop or turn signal, when required herein,
shall be given either by means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps, except
as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Signal lamps.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and
required signal shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when the distance from
the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body or
load thereof exceeds 14 feet.
      (2)   The latter measurement shall apply to any single vehicle and also
to any combination of vehicles.
   (C)   Hand and arm signals. All signals herein required given by hand and
arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner,
and such signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-6)
§ 72.056 UNLAWFUL TURNING.
   (A)   State or federal highways. It shall be unlawful from and after the
effective date hereof for any driver of an automobile or other vehicle to turn
such a vehicle around so as to proceed in the opposite direction at any point
on any designated state or federal highway within the limits of this town.
   (B)   Entry onto property for turning. It shall be unlawful from and after
the effective date hereof for the driver of any automobile or other vehicle
traveling upon any designated state or federal highway within the limits of
this town to turn such vehicle around so as to proceed in the opposite
direction by driving such automobile or vehicle off such highway onto public or
private property or driveways and driving back onto said highway, and
proceeding in the opposite direction, provided that the provisions of this
section shall not apply to the drivers of automobiles or vehicles stopping at
private property under their ownership or in their possession or stopping at
their place of business or employment or stopping to do business at a place of
business along said highway.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 72.070 PRUDENT SPEED.
   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the highway, and any
other condition then existing; and no person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.071 LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for compliance
with §
72.070 of this subchapter, the limits specified in this subchapter or
established as hereinafter authorized shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no
person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum
limits as follows:
   (A)   Schools. Twenty mph on any street adjacent to any school between 7:30
a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on days when school is in session, except as otherwise
required by state authority; and
   (B)   General speed limit. Twenty-five mph on other streets and on streets
adjacent to schools at other times than those specified immediately above;
provided that the Board of Trustees by motion or resolution may reduce or
increase this speed limit, and when it does so, appropriate signs shall be
placed on such streets or parts of streets indicating the lower or higher speed
limit.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.072 DRIVING TOO SLOWLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive at such a slow speed as to
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.073 SQUEALING TIRES.
   No driver shall either purposely or inadvertently cause his or her vehicle
to accelerate at such an excessive rate of speed so as to spin or squeal the
tires of said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
EMERGENCY VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
§ 72.085 INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person or operator of any
vehicle whatsoever to drive or park his or her vehicle in any place as would
interfere with the performance of firefighters on duty at a fire, or a police
officer or ambulance driver at any fire, accident, catastrophe or any public
emergency whatsoever.
   (B)   Pedestrians. It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to interfere with
the work of firefighters, police officers, ambulance drivers, doctors, nurses
or others at the scene of fires, accidents, catastrophes or occurrences of
public emergency nature.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.086 FIRE APPARATUS.
   (A)   Following fire apparatus. The driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the
block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
   (B)   Crossing fire hose. No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of the Fire Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.087 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Privileges; conditions. The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle,
when responding to an emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or
suspected violator of the law or ordinance or when responding to, but not upon
returning from, a fire alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this
section, but subject to the conditions herein stated.
   (B)   Privileges enumerated. The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
may:
      (1)   Parking. Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of Chapter
73 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   Stop signals. Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but
only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Speed limits. Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she
does not endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Direction of movement. Disregard regulations governing direction of
movement or turning in specific directions.
   (C)   Applicability. The exemptions herein granted to an authorized
emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle is making
use of audible and visual signals as required by law, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   Duty to drive safely. The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the
driver from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of
others.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-3)
§ 72.088 DUTY OF DRIVERS.
   (A)   Drivers to yield right-of-way. Upon the immediate approach of an
authorized emergency vehicle making use of audible and visual signals meeting
the requirements of the laws of this state or of a police vehicle properly and
lawfully making use of an audible signal or red flashing lights, the driver of
every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to
a position parallel to and as close as possible to the right hand edge or curb
of the roadway clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such
position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Duty of emergency vehicle. This section shall not operate to relieve
the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-4)
§ 72.089 NOTIFICATION OF RUNS.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive on the streets of the town any
emergency vehicle, including, but not limited to, police patrol cars, fire
trucks, ambulances, sheriff’s cars, highway patrol cars and police motorcycles,
while sounding a siren, horn, bell or other noisemaking device designed to
forewarn the populace of the approach of such vehicle, without first advising
the Police Department by contacting the police dispatcher on duty of his or her
intention to make an emergency run and giving the name of the person making the
run, the destination and the route which they intend to travel and the nature
of the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Manner of parking
   
73.02   Angle parking
   
73.03   Parallel parking
   
73.04   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited
   
73.05   Streets and alleys
   
73.06   Parking for certain purposes
   
73.07   Time limits
   
73.08   Loading or unloading at angle to curb
   
73.09   Curb loading zones
   
73.10   Public carrier stands
   
73.11   Buses and taxicabs
§ 73.01 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   Proximity to curb. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall
be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to
and within 18 inches of the right hand curb; provided that every vehicle
stopped or parked upon the left hand side of a one-way street where there are
adjacent curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels parallel to
and within 18 inches of the left hand curb.
   (B)   Brakes and motor. Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles.
No driver of a motor vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running
while parked.
   (C)   Marked spaces. In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on
the surface of the street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a
parking space as thus marked off, and not on or over a line delineating a
space.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1)
§ 73.02 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Signs or markings. The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or
resolution, shall determine upon what streets and parts of streets angle
parking shall be permitted, and shall have such streets marked or signed.
   (B)   Compliance. On those streets which have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 PARALLEL PARKING.
   All parking shall be parallel parking on Highway U.S. 81 between 7th Street
and Kansas, within the town, said parking to leave a minimum of four lanes open
for traffic and a minimum of 48 feet of width in the roadway to allow for
movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibited places enumerated. No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or ordinance or the directions of a police officer or
traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   Sidewalk. On a sidewalk;
      (2)   Intersection. Within an intersection;
      (3)   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Fire hydrant. Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant except in a parking
space officially marked;
      (5)   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Crosswalk at intersection. Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an
intersection;
      (7)   Traffic control signals. Within 30 feet upon the approach to any
flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway;
      (8)   Safety zone. Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within
30 feet of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the town indicates a different length by signs or markings;
      (9)   Railroad crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing;
      (10)   Fire station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly signposted;
      (11)   Street obstruction. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Beside vehicle. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or
parked at the edge or curb of a street;
      (13)   Bridges; underpasses. Upon any bridge or other elevated structure
upon a highway or within a highway underpass;
      (14)   Official signs. At any place where official signs prohibit
stopping; and
      (15)   (a)   Oklahoma Avenue. On the roadway between Cherokee Street and
Mitchell Road; and
         (b)   East Third Street. On the roadway between Main Street and
Mitchell Road.
   (B)   Moving vehicle. No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his
or her control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance
as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4) (Ord. 341, passed 1- -2012; Ord. 356, passed 7-9-2015)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Streets. No person shall park a vehicle within a street in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 15 feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic; and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street in such position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   (B)   Alleys. No vehicles shall be parked in any of the alleys in the
business district, except that vehicles may be parked for not to exceed 20
minutes, for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise.
   (C)   One-way roadways.
      (1)   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and
traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway unless
signs or marks are placed to permit such standing or parking.
      (2)   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, is authorized
to determine when standing or parking may be permitted upon the left hand side
of such one-way roadway and to have signs or marks placed giving notice
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-5) (Ord. 357, passed 7-9-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose
of:
   (A)   Sale. Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Selling merchandise. Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise
or other things for sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
   (C)   Washing or repairing. Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle
except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Authority. The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, is
hereby authorized to establish parking time limits, or to prohibit parking, on
designated streets and parts of streets, by having appropriate signs placed
thereon.
   (B)   Compliance. When such signs are in place, it is unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle in violation thereof.
   (C)   Twenty-four hour limit. No person shall park a vehicle on any street
or in any alley for a period of time longer than 24 hours.
   (D)   Truck parking. It is unlawful for any person to park a truck of over
one ton capacity for more than three consecutive hours on any street or alley
in a residential area of the town.
   (E)   Conflict; restrictive provisions to prevail. Divisions (C) and (D) of
this section shall not affect parking limits established for shorter periods.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE TO CURB.
   (A)   Permits. The Town Board of Trustees and the Town Administrator are
authorized to issue special permits to permit the backing of a vehicle to the
curb for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise or materials subject
to the terms and conditions of such permit. Such permits may be issued either
to the owner or lessee of real property or to the owner of the vehicle and
shall grant to such person the privilege as therein stated and authorized
herein. The Town Board of Trustees may revoke such permits at any time.
   (B)   Terms and conditions. It is unlawful for any permittee or other person
to violate any of the special terms or conditions of such permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 CURB LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Establishment. The Town Board of Trustees and the Town Administrator,
by motion or resolution, are hereby authorized to determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones, and shall have placed and maintained
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable. By the same authority, such loading
zones may be changed or discontinued.
   (B)   Costs. When such a loading zone is established on request of any
person, the town shall not have signs placed until the applicant has paid to
the town an amount of money established by the Board of Trustees to be adequate
to reimburse the town for all costs of establishing and signing same.
   (C)   Passenger curb loading zones. No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb
loading zone during hours when the regulations applicable to such curb loading
zone are effective and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes.
   (D)   Freight curb loading zones.
      (1)   Stopping prohibited. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and
delivery or pick up and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight
curb loading zone during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are
in effect. In no case shall the stop for loading or unloading of materials
exceed 30 minutes.
      (2)   Passengers. The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily
at a place marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-9)
§ 73.10 PUBLIC CARRIER STANDS.
   (A)   Established. The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, is
hereby authorized and required to establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab
stands and stands for other passenger common carrier motor vehicles on such
public streets in such places and in such number as it determines to be of the
greatest benefit and convenience to the public; and every such bus stop, bus
stand, taxicab stand or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
By the same authority, such stops and stands may be changed or discontinued.
   (B)   Use restricted. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other
than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any
such stop or stand has been officially designated and appropriately signed,
except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers
when such stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter
such zone.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-10)
§ 73.11 BUSES AND TAXICABS.
   (A)   Buses; standing or parking. The operator of a bus shall not stand or
park such vehicle upon any street at any place other than a bus stand so
designated as provided herein.
   (B)   Buses; stopping for passengers. The operator of a bus shall not stop
such vehicle upon any street at any place for the purpose of loading or
unloading passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop, bus stand or
passenger loading zone so designated as provided herein, except in case of an
emergency.
   (C)   Manner of stopping. The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus
stand or passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the
bus, when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a
position with the right front wheel of such vehicle not further than 18 inches
from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to
unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Taxicabs. The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such
vehicle upon any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand or place so
designated herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab
from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking
regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-11)
CHAPTER 74: STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS
Section
   
74.01   One-way streets and alleys
   
74.02   Rotary traffic island
   
74.03   Approaching or entering intersection
   
74.04   Turning left at intersection
   
74.05   Through streets
   
74.06   Stop and yield intersections designated
   
74.07   Stop and yield signs
   
74.08   Stop intersections
   
74.09   Yield intersections
   
74.10   Two or more vehicles facing signals
   
74.11   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
74.12   Obstructing traffic; vehicles and trains
   
74.13   Train signals
   
74.14   Railroad grade crossings
   
74.15   School buses
   
74.16   Truck routes
§ 74.01 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Signs. Whenever the Board of Trustees by motion or resolution
designates any street or alley or part thereof as a one-way street or alley,
the town shall have placed and maintained signs giving notice thereof; and no
such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Direction of traffic. Upon those streets and parts of streets and in
those alleys and parts of alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys,
vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs
indicating one direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1)
§ 74.02 ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLAND.
   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only to the
right of such island.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2)
§ 74.03 APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Right-of-way; state or federal highway. The driver of a vehicle
approaching an intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle which
has entered the intersection from a different highway; provided that the driver
of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or federal highway approaching an
intersection with a state or federal highway shall stop and yield the right-of-
way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection or which is so close
thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Vehicles approaching at same time. When two vehicles enter or approach
an intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the
driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle
on the right.
   (C)   Modification of rules. The right-of-way rules declared in divisions
(A) and (B) of this section are modified at through highways and otherwise as
stated in this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3)
§ 74.04 TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard; but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this title, may make such left turn, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite
direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4)
§ 74.05 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Designation. The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may
designate any street or part of a street a through street.
   (B)   Signs required. Whenever the Board of Trustees so designates and
describes a through street, the town shall have placed and maintained a stop
sign, or if deemed more appropriate at any intersection a yield sign, on each
and every street intersecting such through street unless traffic at any such
intersection is controlled at all times by traffic control signals; provided,
however, that at the intersection of two such through streets or at the
intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated,
stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of said streets as may
be determined by the Town Board of Trustees if deemed desirable.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-5)
§ 74.06 STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS DESIGNATED.
   The Town Administrator, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to
determine and designate intersections where particular hazard exists upon other
than through streets and to determine:
   (A)   Stop intersection. Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more
entrances to any such intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected
a stop sign at every such place where a stop is required;
   (B)   Yield intersection. Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles on a different street at such intersection as prescribed in §
74.03(A) in which event it shall cause to be erected a yield sign at every
place where obedience thereto is required; or
   (C)   Uncontrolled intersections. The driver of a vehicle approaching an
intersection without any traffic control device to regulate the flow of traffic
entering the intersection shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles already
in the intersection or to any vehicle from his or her right whenever that
vehicle is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-6)
§ 74.07 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Design; illumination.
      (1)   Every stop sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than
eight inches in height.
      (2)   Every yield sign shall bear the word “Yield” in letters not less
than seven inches in height.
      (3)   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall at nighttime be rendered
luminous by internal illumination or by a floodlight projected on the face of
the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements in the face of the sign.
   (B)   Placement. Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as
near as practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to
the nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-7)
§ 74.08 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Manner of stopping. Except when directed to proceed by a police
officer or traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection, or, in the event there is no crosswalk,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but, if none, then at the point
nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching
traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   Right-of-way; entering intersection. Such driver, after having
stopped, shall yield the right-of- way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on the
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard; but said driver having so yielded
may proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-8)
§ 74.09 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Manner of yielding. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign
shall in obedience to such sign slow down to a speed reasonable for the
existing conditions, or shall stop if necessary and shall yield the right-of-
way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he or she is
driving, and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so
yielded may proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding; provided, however, that
if such driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a
vehicle in the intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping,
such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his or her failure to
yield right-of-way.
   (B)   Entering intersection. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield
sign, if required for safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-9)
§ 74.10 TWO OR MORE VEHICLES FACING SIGNALS.
   Where two or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or
signals on two or more intersecting cross streets, and are approaching so as to
enter the intersection at the same time, where each vehicle is required to
stop, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right-of-way. Where each
vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the
right-of-way. Where each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle
coming from the right shall have the right-of-way. Where one vehicle is
required to stop and the other to slow or take caution, the one slowing or
taking caution shall have the right-of-way. Where one vehicle is required to
slow and the other to take caution, the one required to take caution shall have
the right-of-way. In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the
intersection shall have the right-of-way over one which has not so entered the
intersection.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-10)
§ 74.11 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-11)
§ 74.12 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC; VEHICLES AND TRAINS.
   (A)   Blocking intersection or crosswalk. No driver shall enter an
intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the
other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or
she is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or
pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Obstructing street. It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person
to place or leave any vehicle of any kind upon the public highway, street or
alley within the corporate limits of the town so as to hinder or obstruct the
free use of such highway, street, alley or thoroughfare. Provided that nothing
herein contained shall prevent the proper use of any vehicle upon or along the
public highways, streets or alleys of the town as provided by the town
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.13 TRAIN SIGNALS.
   (A)   Stop required. Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a
railroad grade crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section,
the driver of such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of such railroad and shall not proceed until he or she
can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   Visible signal device. A clearly visible electric or mechanical
signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   Crossing gate; flagger. A crossing gate is lowered or when a human
flagger gives or continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a
railroad train;
      (3)   Audible train signal. A railroad train approaching within
approximately 1,500 feet of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from
such distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to
such crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
      (4)   Approaching train. An approaching railroad train is plainly visible
and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   Driving around gate. No person shall drive any vehicle through, around
or under any crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.14 RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Stop required. The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for
hire, or of any school bus carrying any school child, or of any vehicle
carrying explosive substances or flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a
cargo, before crossing at grade any track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop
such vehicle within 50 feet but no less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of
such railroad, and while so stopped, shall listen and look in both directions
along such track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, except as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed
until he or she can do so safely. After stopping as required herein and upon
proceeding when it is safe to do so, the driver of any such vehicle shall cross
only in such gear of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for changing
gears while traversing such crossing and the driver shall not shift gears while
crossing the track or tracks.
   (B)   Exception. No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police
officer or a traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-14)
§ 74.15 SCHOOL BUSES.
   The driver of a vehicle upon a street within the town, upon meeting or
overtaking from either direction any school bus which has stopped on or
adjacent to any street for the purpose of receiving or discharging any school
children and other occupants and on which the red loading signals are in
operation, is to stop his or her vehicle before it reaches the school bus and
not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed past
such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for the
safety of such school children and other occupants, and this section shall be
applicable only in the event the school bus shall bear upon the front and rear
thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words “School Bus” in letters not
less than eight inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.16 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Establishment. The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution,
may prescribe routes through the town for the use of trucks in general or
trucks of particular kinds and/or other vehicles which are not ordinary private
passenger vehicles, passing through the town. The town shall see that
appropriate and adequate signs are placed along such routes so that drivers of
such vehicles may follow the routes.
   (B)   Compliance. When such signs are so erected and in place, the driver of
a truck or other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed, as provided
above, while passing through the town shall keep on such route and shall not
deviate therefrom, except in case of emergency. Drivers of such vehicles shall
follow such routes so far as practicable also when driving within the town and
not merely through the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-16)
CHAPTER 75: VEHICLE CONDITION AND EQUIPMENT
Section
   
75.01   Vehicles injurious to street
   
75.02   Obstructive and dangerous vehicles
   
75.03   Equipment
   
75.04   Mufflers
   
75.05   Width, height, length, weight and load
   
75.06   Inspection of vehicles
   
75.07   License plates
   
75.08   Headlamps
   
75.09   Stop and signal lamps
   
75.10   Lighted lamps; conditions
   
75.11   Horns
§ 75.01 VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREET.
   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.02 OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed or so
loaded as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
Chief of Police and in accordance with the terms of such permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.03 EQUIPMENT.
   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped as
required by law; and it is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the
town which is not equipped as required by law. It is also unlawful to fail to
use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it in a manner
prohibited by law. It is also unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment
prohibited by law upon a street of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.04 MUFFLERS.
   No motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine shall be operated within
the town unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler; and no muffler cutout or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall be
used on any motor vehicle while operating within the town, except that exhaust
whistles may be used on authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.05 WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH, WEIGHT AND LOAD.
   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.06 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon
the streets of the town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it
is properly equipped and/or whether its equipment is in proper adjustment and
repair.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-6)
§ 75.07 LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   No person shall own or have in his or her possession within this
town after January 31 each year any vehicle unless such vehicle shall have the
current distinctive identification and number plates assigned to it by the
Oklahoma Tax Commission
      (2)   Such plate shall be securely fastened to the vehicle for which
issued. The plate is to be attached to the rear of the vehicle. Both plate and
all letters and numbers must be clearly visible at all times.
      (3)   Such plate shall clearly indicate the type and nature of the
operation for which such vehicle shall be used, whether for agricultural
purposes, motor bus or the transportation of persons for purposes other than
for hire or compensation.
   (B)   Illumination.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole trailer shall
have either a taillamp or a separate lamp which shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear.
      (2)   Any taillamp or taillamps, together with any separate lamp for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlamps, clearance lamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-7)
§ 75.08 HEADLAMPS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles. Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or motor
driven cycle shall be equipped with at least two headlamps with at least one on
each side of the front of the motor vehicle, which headlamps shall comply with
the requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Motorcycles. Every motorcycle and every motor driven cycle shall be
equipped with at least one and not more than two headlamps which shall comply
with the requirements and limitations of this subchapter.
   (C)   Placement. Every headlamp upon every motor vehicle, including every
motorcycle and motor driven cycle, shall be located at a height measured from
the center of the headlamp of not more than 54 inches nor less than 22 inches
to be measured from the center of such lamp or device to the level of ground
upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a load.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-8)
§ 75.09 STOP AND SIGNAL LAMPS.
   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole trailer, and any other
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be
equipped with at least one taillamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear, provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the taillamp on
the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified. Every
taillamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not more than 72
inches nor less than 20 inches. No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a
glaring light.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-9)
§ 75.10 LIGHTED LAMPS; CONDITIONS.
   Every vehicle upon a highway within this town, at any time from one-half
hour after sunset to one- half hour before sunrise and at any other time when,
due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons on the
highway are not clearly discernible at a distance of 500 feet ahead, shall
display lighted lamps and illuminating devices as hereinafter respectively
required for different classes of vehicles, subject to exceptions with respect
to parked vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-10)
§ 75.11 HORNS.
   (A)   Required; use. Motor vehicles operated in this town shall be equipped
with a horn or other suitable signaling device, kept in good order, which shall
not be sounded except when necessary for traffic signaling or warning.
   (B)   Unnecessary sounding. Unnecessary sounding of any horn or other motor
vehicle signaling device is hereby declared to be an offense and a violation of
this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
76.01   Definitions
   
76.02   Abandonment unlawful
   
76.03   Impounding; charges
   
76.04   Disposition of vehicles
§ 76.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE or ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which does
not have an insurance verification and both an unexpired license plate or
plates, and the condition of which is in disrepair, wrecked, dismantled,
partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded, and incapable of
being moved under its own power.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purpose of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other then human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles and tractors.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-1) (Ord. 286, passed 8-8-1996)
§ 76.02 ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   Abandonment prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to park, leave, or abandon, or cause to be parked, left or
abandoned, any car, truck or other vehicle, which is not then in proper
mechanical condition to be normally operated upon any public street, alley,
thoroughfare or other public property within the town limits.
   (B)   Nuisance. It is unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any owner
or occupant of any lot or real estate within the town to store motor vehicles,
or any trailer, without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles
to use the public highway, that are abandoned, dismantled, partially
dismantled, wrecked, junked, inoperative or discarded, or left about the town
in places other than an authorized junkyard or other areas authorized by the
Town Board of Trustees, and which tend to do any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Impede traffic in the streets;
      (2)   Reduce the value of private property;
      (3)   Create fire hazards;
      (4)   Extend and aggravate urban blight; or
      (5)   Result in a serious hazard to the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and welfare of the residents of the town.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any vehicle enclosed
within a building on private property or to any vehicle held, stored or parked
in connection with a business enterprise lawfully licensed by the town or
state, and on property operated in the appropriate business zone, pursuant to
zoning laws of the town, nor shall this section apply to a town owned vehicle
in an appropriate storage place maintained in a lawful place by the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-2) (Ord. 286, passed 8-8-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.03 IMPOUNDING; CHARGES.
   Any car, truck or other vehicle parked, left or abandoned in violation of
the provisions of this chapter shall be removed from the place the same is
illegally parked, left or abandoned, to an appropriate place to be stored until
claimed by the owner or person having possession thereof. A charge shall be
made for the removal of such car, truck or other vehicle and an additional
charge for storage until such time as all costs of removal and storage have
been paid.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-3)
§ 76.04 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES.
   If any person, firm or corporation owning or having possession of any car,
truck or other vehicle which is seized and moved under the provisions of this
chapter fails to claim said car, truck or other vehicle within 30 days from the
date the same is seized and removed, and fails to pay the charges imposed
therefor, the town is empowered to sell such car, truck or other vehicle at
public auction, after advertising the same, as provided for in the foreclosure
of liens for repair and storage of vehicles under the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-4)
CHAPTER 77: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
77.01   Traffic control signals
   
77.02   Crosswalks
   
77.03   Manner of crossing
   
77.04   Yielding by pedestrians
   
77.05   Railroad signals
   
77.06   Pedestrians walking along roadways
   
77.07   Soliciting rides or business
   
77.08   Duty of drivers
§ 77.01 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as heretofore
declared in this title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted
those rights and be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-1)
§ 77.02 CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Right-of-way. When traffic control signals are not in place or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down
or stopping if need be, to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway
within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon
which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so
closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   Entering path of vehicle. No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or
other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so
close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
   (C)   Exceptions. Division (A) of this section shall not apply under the
conditions stated in §
77.04(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   Overtaking stopped vehicle. Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a
marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a
pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Use of crosswalks. Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon
the right half of crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-2)
§ 77.03 MANNER OF CROSSING.
   (A)   Right angles. No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other
than by the route at right angle to the curb or by the shortest route to the
opposite curb, except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   Prohibited crossing. Between adjacent intersections at which traffic
control signals are in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place
except in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-3)
§ 77.04 YIELDING BY PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   No crosswalk. Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Pedestrian tunnels. Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where
a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Exception. The foregoing rules in this section have no application
under the conditions stated in §
77.03 of this chapter, when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain
designated places.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-4)
§ 77.05 RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-5)
§ 77.06 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Sidewalks. Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any
pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Manner of walking on roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any
pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall when practicable walk only on
the left side of the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach
from the opposite direction and shall yield to approaching vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-6)
§ 77.07 SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of
soliciting a ride, donation, employment or business from the occupant of any
vehicle.
   (B)   Parking vehicle. No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street
or highway for the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any
vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-7)
§ 77.08 DUTY OF DRIVERS.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-8)
CHAPTER 78: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
78.01   Effect of regulations
   
78.02   Traffic laws
   
78.03   Traffic control devices
   
78.04   Manner of riding
   
78.05   Roadways and bicycle paths
   
78.06   Speed
   
78.07   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
78.08   Carrying articles
   
78.09   Parking
   
78.10   Riding on sidewalks
   
78.11   Lamps and other equipment
Motorcycles and Motor Scooters
   
78.25   Motor scooters
   
78.26   Manner of riding
   
78.27   Speed
   
78.28   Equipment
   
78.29   Operation by persons under 16
   
78.30   Special vehicle provisions; exceptions
BICYCLES
§ 78.01 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Offense. It is an offense for any person to do any act forbidden or
fail to perform any act required in this subchapter.
   (B)   Duty of parent. The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward
shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any
of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Applicability. These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply
whenever a bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles subject to the exceptions stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.02 TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and except as to
those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-2)
§ 78.03 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Obedience to signals. Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the
instructions of official traffic control signals, signs and other control
devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Turns. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right
or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.04 MANNER OF RIDING.
   (A)   Rider to use seat. A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other
than astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   Number of persons. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.05 ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Right side of roadway. Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising
due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same
direction.
   (B)   Riding abreast. Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride
more than two abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
   (C)   Bicycle path. Where a usable path for bicycles has been provided
adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.06 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.07 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.08 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.09 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.10 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within the
town limits.
   (B)   Signs. The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, is
authorized to have erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the
riding of bicycles thereon by any person; and when such signs are in place, no
person shall disobey the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.11 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Lamps and reflectors.
      (1)   Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   Audible signal. No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of at least 100 feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped
with, nor shall any person use upon a bicycle, a siren or whistle.
   (C)   Brake. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS
§ 78.25 MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor driven cycle, including a
motor scooter or motor driven bicycle, on a street in this town during a time
when state law prohibits the operation of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.26 MANNER OF RIDING.
   A person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter or a motor bicycle shall ride
only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator
shall not carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on the vehicle
unless it is designed to carry more than one person in which event a passenger
may ride only upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons
or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-2)
§ 78.27 SPEED.
   No person shall operate any motorcycle, motor driven cycle, motor scooter or
any other similar two or three wheel motor vehicle at a speed greater than the
speed limit provided by ordinance of this town for automobiles or other motor
vehicles, or at a speed greater than the speed limit regularly posted for
automobiles or other motor vehicles within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.28 EQUIPMENT.
   The following equipment shall be required on all motorcycles and all motor
scooters being operated and driven in the town.
   (A)   Rearview mirrors. All vehicles covered under this subchapter shall be
equipped with two mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of 200 feet to the rear of the vehicle.
   (B)   Windshield. All vehicles covered under this subchapter shall be
equipped with a windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects, except that in lieu of such windshield the
operator shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect
him or her from foreign objects.
   (C)   Brakes. All vehicles covered under this subchapter shall be equipped
with brakes adequate to control the movement of same to stop and hold such
vehicles, including two separate means of applying the brakes; one means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to the front wheel and one means shall apply
the brakes to the rear wheels. All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop
lamp on the rear of the vehicle, which shall display a red or amber light, or
any shade or color between red and amber, visible from a distance of not less
than 100 feet to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon
application of the service brake.
   (D)   Speedometer. All vehicles covered under this subchapter shall be
equipped with a properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least
the maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle.
   (E)   Fenders. All vehicles covered under this subchapter shall be equipped
with a fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided by the
manufacturer.
   (F)   Lights. All vehicles covered under this subchapter shall carry at
least one lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at least
300 feet in the direction in which the same are proceeding, and one tail lamp
mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a red light plainly visible
from at least 500 feet to the rear, and such lights required by this subchapter
shall be burning whenever such vehicles are in motion during the period from
one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise and at any other
time when, due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions,
persons and vehicles on the streets are not clearly discernible at a distance
of at least 500 feet ahead.
   (G)   Headgear.
      (1)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate or ride upon any
vehicle covered under this subchapter unless such person is equipped with and
wearing on the head a crash helmet of a type which complies with standards
established by 49 C.F.R. § 571.218.
      (2)   All crash helmets shall consist of lining, padding and chin straps
and be of the type as not to distort the view of the driver.
   (H)   Mufflers. It shall be an offense to operate a vehicle covered under
this subchapter with the exhaust system modified so that motor noise is
increased greater than that of the original muffler equipment provided by the
manufacturer of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Headlamps, see §
75.08
§ 78.29 OPERATION BY PERSONS UNDER 16.
   (A)   Hours. The operation of motorcycles, motor driven cycles, motor
scooters or other similar two or three wheel motor vehicles within the
corporate limits of this town is prohibited for persons under 16 years of age
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 4:30 a.m.
   (B)   Speed limits. No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor
scooter at a speed greater than the speed limit legally posted; provided,
however, in no event nor at any time may an operator under the age of 16 years
operate a motorcycle or motor scooter at a speed greater than 35 mph.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.30 SPECIAL VEHICLE PROVISIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Golf carts and utility terrain vehicles (UTV), side-by-side four wheelers
and small vehicles commonly known as mini-trucks are prohibited from operating
on federal and state highways and town streets within the limits of the town
except as follows.
   (A)   When the UTV or golf cart is operated by a person 16 years of age or
older and possesses a valid operator license during daylight hours only.
Daylight hours are determined to be one-half hour after sunrise and one-half
hour before sunset.
   (B)   UTV and golf carts may operate on federal or state highway only if
making a perpendicular (90 degree) crossing of a federal or state highway
located within the limits of the town.
   (C)   Every person operating a UTV or golf cart upon a street shall subject
to the rules of the road as applicable by the state and traffic ordinances of
the town.
   (D)   All such golf carts and UTV while operating in the limits of the town
shall have a slow moving emblem (reflective triangle) affixed to the rear
portion of the vehicle. Golf carts and UTV shall be equipped with a lap safety
belt for each occupant of the vehicle. Passengers under the age of six years
old are restricted to riding upon such vehicle, unless the driver of the
vehicle is at least 21 years of age or older.
   (E)   All such golf carts and UTV while operating in the limits of the town
shall be restricted from operating on a street or highway with a posted speed
limit greater than 35 mph and shall not be driven at a speed greater than 25
mph.
   (F)   All golf cart or UTV vehicles operated on any town street of the town
will be required to:
      (1)   Provide proof of liability insurance issued through a licensed
insurance company;
      (2)   Register the golf cart or UTV with the Police Department; and
      (3)   Purchase a permit for such operation from the Police Department as
set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees. (The permit will be valid for a
period of 12 months from the date of issue.)
   (G)   (1)   Any operator who is issued two warnings for infractions of this
section within a year, will have his or her permit revoked. Serious offenses to
this section may warrant an immediate revocation of the permit.
      (2)   Revocation decisions will be made by the Chief of Police. Appeals
of the revocation may be made to the Town Administrator. Appeal decisions by
the Town Administrator will be final.
(Ord. 350, passed 12-5-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 79: RAILROADS
Section
   
79.01   Improvement of streets and alleys
   
79.02   Sidewalk construction
   
79.03   Obstruction of streets
   
79.04   Climbing on moving trains
   
79.05   Loitering in station
   
79.06   Speed of trains and engines
   
79.07   Noncompliance by railway; lien on property
 
   
79.99   Penalty
§ 79.01 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks running in
the general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto, the
railway company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet on
either side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street is to
be, or has been, improved, or with such other satisfactory material as the Town
Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may approve. In case any railway
company shall occupy an alley with its track or tracks, such company shall
improve, gutter, drain and grade such alley, and shall surface or pave it with
the same material which is to be, or has been, used on the alley, or with such
other satisfactory material as the Town Board of Trustees, by motion or
resolution, may approve. When the tracks of any railroad company cross any
street that is being or has been paved, the company shall pave as much of the
street as is occupied by its track or tracks and two feet on each side, using
the same material as is to be, or has been, used on the street, or such other
satisfactory material as the Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution,
may approve. When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of 100
feet, measuring from inside rail to inside rail, the railroad company shall
grade, gutter, drain, and curb the street area between its tracks, and surface
or pave it with the same material which the town is to use or has used on the
street. Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in a
good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1)
§ 79.02 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights-of-way,
using the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as this is
practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on both
sides of the streets when both sides are used by pedestrians. The company shall
keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-2)
§ 79.03 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   It is unlawful for the directing officer or person in charge of any railroad
train or railroad car to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such
manner as to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period
of time longer than five minutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-3) Penalty, see §
79.99
§ 79.04 CLIMBING ON MOVING TRAINS.
   It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any manner
attach himself or herself to any railway train, locomotive, or railway car,
while such is in motion, within the town, unless such person is acting in line
of duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-4) Penalty, see §
79.99
§ 79.05 LOITERING IN STATION.
   It is unlawful for any person not acting within the line of duty, not having
any proper business, or not being on any proper mission requiring his or her
presence there, to loiter within a railroad station or other railway building,
upon a railroad station platform or anywhere upon a railroad yard or other
railroad premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-5) Penalty, see §
79.99
§ 79.06 SPEED OF TRAINS AND ENGINES.
   It is unlawful for an engineer or other person to propel, drive, pull or
move a train or a railroad engine within the corporate limits of the town at a
speed greater than 25 mph.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6) Penalty, see §
79.99
§ 79.07 NONCOMPLIANCE BY RAILWAY; LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   Work done by town at expense of railway. If the owners of the railway
shall fail or refuse to comply with the order of the town to make such
improvements by paving, chatting, graveling, macadamizing, or building
sidewalks as the town may direct, or to repair such paving, graveling,
macadamizing or sidewalks, such work may be done by the town. The cost and
expense of such work done by the town may be charged against the railway
company and may be collected in the District Court in the county in which the
improvements have been made, by action of law, in the name of the town against
the railway company. In any such action at law, it shall be sufficient to
declare generally for work or labor done, or material furnished on the
particular street, avenue, alley or highway so improved.
   (B)   Lien on railway property. In addition to the remedy provided in this
section for collection of costs and expenses, the town, or anyone authorized by
it to do the work, shall be entitled to a lien upon the property of the railway
company. Such lien shall exist for the full amount of the cost and expense
against the property of the railway company adjacent or contiguous to the
improvement or improvements so made. The lien may be enforced against the
property of the railway company by action in the district court in the county
in which the improvements have been made. In any action to enforce the lien, it
shall be sufficient to declare generally that the lien exists for the amount of
the cost and expense of the work and labor done or material furnished on the
particular improvement.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7)
§ 79.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who performs any unlawful act as defined by any provision of this
chapter or who otherwise violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day’s continuation of any such violation
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-8)
CHAPTER 80: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Weight limitations
SCHEDULE I. WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Protected streets. No motor vehicle or other equipment in excess of
30,000 pounds (15 tons) in weight shall use or travel the following streets:
      (1)   Mitchell Road from State Highway 51 south to Seventh Street;
      (2)   Cemetery Road from State Highway 51 north to the north Town limit;
and
      (3)   Seventh Street from Mitchell Road to Cemetery Road.
   (B)   Notice. Maximum weight limits shall be posted in conspicuous locations
so as to provide notice of the restriction set forth above.
   (C)   Penalty. Any failure by the driver of any vehicle or equipment to
comply with the restriction set forth above shall be punishable as a traffic
violation and a dollar penalty as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees imposed plus court costs and other appropriate fees.
(Ord. 373, passed 8-13-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH REGULATIONS; ADMINISTRATION
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   WEEDS AND TRASH
      
93.   DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
      
94.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
95.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
      
97.   LIBRARY
      
98.   PARKS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH REGULATIONS; ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
90.01   Administration by county and state
§ 90.01 ADMINISTRATION BY COUNTY AND STATE.
   There shall be no public health superintendent, as such, with all matters
pertaining to the public health to be done under the office of the County
Health Department and the State Health Department. The Board of Trustees may
request the County Board of Health or the State Board of Health to act in
regard to any matter that may involve the health and welfare of the inhabitants
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Nuisance unlawful
   
91.03   Person responsible
   
91.04   Time does not legalize
   
91.05   Powers of town
   
91.06   Certain public nuisances defined
   
91.07   Remedies
   
91.08   Summary abatement
   
91.09   Abatement by suit in District Court
   
91.10   Health nuisances
   
91.11   Procedures cumulative
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, or is any
thing or condition which either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   PRIVATE NUISANCE. Every nuisance not included in the definition for public
nuisance is a PRIVATE NUISANCE.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. One which affects at the same time an entire community or
neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 91.02 NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person (owner, lessee or other) to create or maintain
a nuisance within the town, or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under
his or her control within the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 PERSON RESPONSIBLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
§ 91.04 TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
§ 91.05 POWERS OF TOWN.
   (A)   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the town has power to determine what is
and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, the public parks, and the public water supply,
outside of its corporate limits.
   (B)   Whenever it is practical to do so, the town has power summarily to
abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner and an opportunity for him or
her to be heard, if this can be done.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5)
§ 91.06 CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   Nuisances enumerated. In addition to other public nuisances declared
by other sections of this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be
nuisances:
      (1)   State law violation. The keeping of a place where activities in
violation of state law or ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      (2)   Loud noise. The continued making of loud or unusual noises which
annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which
makes such noises;
      (3)   Interference with reception. The operation or use of any electrical
apparatus or machine which materially and unduly interferes with radio or
television reception by others;
      (4)   Obstruction of traffic. Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place
adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct
traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which obstructs traffic thereon, except
as may be authorized by law or ordinance;
      (5)   Water or snow on sidewalk. Permitting water or other liquid to flow
or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or structure upon any street
or sidewalk;
      (6)   Wells and cisterns. All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or
containers of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which
are so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public
safety;
      (7)   Conditions breeding vermin. Rank weeds or grass, carcasses,
accumulations of manure, refuse or other things, which are, or are likely to
be, breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin or disease germs; and the
premises on which such exist;
      (8)   Dangerous structures. Any building or structure which is dangerous
to the public health or safety because of damage, decay or other condition;
      (9)   Pits. Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (10)   Fire hazard. Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the
public safety;
      (11)   Dangerous activities. Any occupation or activity which endangers
the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare; and
      (12)   Abandoned motor vehicles. Abandoned motor vehicles as defined and
regulated in
Chapter 76 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   List not exclusive. The above enumeration of certain public nuisances
shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or ordinances
defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more specific
terms.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6) (Ord. 286, passed 8-8-1996)
§ 91.07 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Public nuisances. The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      (1)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      (2)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      (3)   Civil action; and
      (4)   Abatement:
         (a)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
         (b)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
   (B)   Private nuisances. The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      (1)   Civil action; and
      (2)   Abatement:
         (a)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
         (b)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7)
§ 91.08 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Immediate action authorized. Some nuisances are of such nature as to
constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of one or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized
that circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to require, the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees or other appropriate officer or agency of
the town government to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such
nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate action can
be taken toward such abatement.
   (B)   Recommendation for abatement. The Chief of the Fire Department, the
Chief of Police, the town attorney, the building official, the electrical
inspector, the plumbing inspector or any other officer subordinate to the Board
of Trustees may submit to the Board of Trustees a statement as to the existence
of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the town or law, and a request or
recommendation that it be abated. The Health Officer, any Town Trustee, or any
resident or residents of the town may submit such a statement and request or
recommendation to the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Hearing. The Board of Trustees shall determine whether or not the
alleged nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence
on the subject, the Board shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses,
books, papers and other effects. Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or to
have it abated, the Board shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed
abatement to the owner of any property concerned and to any other person
adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing
can be given. Such notice shall be given to the owner and other persons
concerned in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if their
addresses are known but, if the names and addresses are not known, and the
peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a
notice of the hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation
within the town.
   (D)   Determination; action. If the Board finds that a nuisance does in fact
exist, it shall direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for or
causing the nuisance to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected
would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay,
or if the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not
abate it within the specified time, the Board shall direct the Chairperson of
the Board to abate the nuisance or to have it abated, if summary abatement is
practical, as authorized by 50 O.S. § 16. The town offices shall send a
statement of the cost of such summary abatement to the owner and/or other
persons responsible for or causing the nuisance, as may be just under the
circumstances, if their names and addresses are known. Until paid, such cost
shall constitute a debt to the town collectible as other debts of the town may
be collected.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-8) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 91.09 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the
town may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-9)
§ 91.10 HEALTH NUISANCES.
   (A)   Authority to abate. Pursuant to authority granted by the Board of
Trustees, the health officer shall have authority to order the owner or
occupant of any private premises in the town to remove from such premises, at
his or her own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition
conducive to the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the
transmission of disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public
health, within 24 hours, or within such other time as may be reasonable, and a
failure to do so shall constitute an offense. Such order shall be in writing
any may be served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises, or
authorized agent thereof, by the health officer or by a police officer, or a
copy thereof may be left at the last usual place of abode of the owner,
occupant or agent, if known and within the state. If the premises is unoccupied
and the residence of the owner, occupant or agent is unknown, or is without the
state, the order may be served by posting a copy thereof on the premises, or by
publication in at least one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation
in the town.
   (B)   Execution of order; costs. If the order is not complied with, the
health officer may cause the order to be executed and complied with, and the
cost thereof shall be certified to the Town Clerk, and the cost of removing or
abating such nuisance shall be added to the water bill or other town utility
bill of the owner or occupant if he or she is a user of water from the town
water system or such other utility service. The cost shall be treated as a part
of such utility bill to which it is added, and shall become due and payable,
and be subject to the same regulations relating to delinquency in payment as
the utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant is not a user of any town
utility service, such costs, after certification to the Town Clerk, may be
collected in any manner in which any other debt due the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-10)
§ 91.11 PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other;
and the town may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in
abating any particular nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-11)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance, an
offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any such
provision, or who fails to do any act when such provisions declare such failure
to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, or who violates any legal
order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, or who maintains any
“nuisance” as defined in this chapter, is guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, may be punished as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-12)
CHAPTER 92: WEEDS AND TRASH
Section
   
92.01   Legislative intent
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Weeds prohibited; public nuisance
   
92.04   Report of accumulation
   
92.05   Board agenda
   
92.06   Notice to owner
   
92.07   Hearing; order to clean property
   
92.08   Work done by town or by contract
   
92.09   Costs
   
92.10   Service of notice
   
92.11   Failure to pay costs
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   State law adopted. It is hereby declared the intent of the Board of
Trustees to adopt the provisions of 11 O.S. § 22-111 as to the cleaning and
mowing of property.
   (B)   Administration. The Board of Trustees hereby designates the Town
Administrator to carry out the duties of 11 O.S. § 22-111(A) as to the
abatement of trash, weeds and grass.
   (C)   Code enforcement.
      (1)   Administrative hearing officer. The code enforcement officer is
designated as the Town Administrator assigns, until such time as a successor
may be named, as an administrative hearing officer, pursuant to 11 O.S. § 22-
111(A)(7), to carry out the duties of the Town Board of Trustees under 11 O.S.
§ 22-111(A)cite.
      (2)   Appeal. The property owner shall have the right to appeal the
decision of the administrative hearing officer to the Town Board of Trustees by
filing a written notice of appeal with the Town Clerk within ten calendar days
after the administrative order.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 274, passed 6-9-1994; Ord. 275, passed 7-7-1994;
Ord. 295, passed 9-9-1999)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRASH. Extends to the widest sense of that term, and includes, but without
limitation upon any other meaning, refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris,
paper, combustible material, offal, rubbish, waste, and useless or unused or
uncared for matter of all kinds, whether solid or liquid in form.
   WEED.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden, unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said weeds;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term WEED shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)
§ 92.03 WEEDS PROHIBITED; PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner, tenant or person in charge of a lot, tract or
parcel of land, whether vacant or not, to permit a growth of noxious weeds,
grass or other vegetation thereon or in the adjacent streets (including
parkings) and alleys. Such growth of noxious weeds, grass or other vegetation
is also hereby declared a public nuisance, and may be dealt with and abated as
such.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 REPORT OF ACCUMULATION.
   Any officer or employee of this town who discovers an accumulation of trash
or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises
within the limits of the town by reason of which such premises appear to him or
her to be:
   (A)   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community;
   (B)   A hazard to traffic;
   (C)   A fire hazard to the danger of property; or
   (D)   Any two or more of such results in combination, shall report such
condition to the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4)
§ 92.05 BOARD AGENDA.
   Upon receiving the report prescribed by §
92.04 of this chapter, or upon receipt of equivalent information from any
reliable source, the Chairperson of the Board shall place upon the agenda of
the Board of Trustees for hearing and consideration at an appropriate date of
meeting thereof, such as will permit giving the notices prescribed by statutory
law, the question whether such premises, by reason of the conditions specified,
are detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community,
or a hazard to traffic, or fire hazard to the danger of property, or any two or
more of such results in combination.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5)
§ 92.06 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Forthwith, and at least 15 days prior to the hearing, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall give written notice of such hearing by posting upon the premises
and by forwarding a copy thereof by certified mail with return receipt
requested to the owner of such property at the address shown by the current
year’s tax rolls in the office of the Treasurer of the county in which such
property is located.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6)
§ 92.07 HEARING; ORDER TO CLEAN PROPERTY.
   Upon the date specified in such notice, the Board of Trustees shall hear the
matter and shall receive information thereon, including anything which may be
presented by the owner of the premises, personally or by agent or attorney. If
it determines that the conditions specified in §
92.04 of this chapter exist upon such premises, it shall order the property to
be cleaned of trash or the weeds and grass cut or mowed or both cleaning and
cutting and mowing if necessary to abate the conditions found to exist.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7)
§ 92.08 WORK DONE BY TOWN OR BY CONTRACT.
   The work ordered to be performed under §
92.07 of this chapter may be done by the employees of this town under
supervision of the Town Administrator, or it may be let by contract to the
lowest and best bidder, after appropriate notice, in the manner for letting
other contracts by public bid.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-8)
§ 92.09 COSTS.
   Upon the completion of the work ordered to be performed under §
92.07 of this chapter, the Chairperson of the Board shall report the cost
thereof to the Board of Trustees. Such report shall be itemized as to each
tract, as follows: labor, machinery rental or depreciation, fuel and supplies,
cost of notice and other costs. The Board of Trustees shall examine the report,
and after receiving appropriate information, shall determine the total actual
costs of the work, and shall direct the Town Clerk to forward a statement and
demand payment thereof by certified mail with return receipt requested to the
owner of the property at the address shown by the current tax rolls in the
office of the Treasurer of the county in which the property lies.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-9)
§ 92.10 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The service of all notices prescribed by this chapter shall be evidenced by
the return of the officer making such service, certified in his or her official
capacity, and filed in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-10)
§ 92.11 FAILURE TO PAY COSTS.
   If the costs of the work performed under this chapter are not paid within
six months from the date of mailing the notice prescribed by §
92.06 of this chapter, the Town Clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of such costs to the County Treasurer of the county in which the
property upon which the work was done is located, to be levied upon the
property and to be collected by the County Treasurer in the manner prescribed
by the law of this state.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-11)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance, an
offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any such
provision, or who fails to do any act when such provision declares such failure
to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, or who violates any legal
order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, or who maintains any
“nuisance” as defined in this chapter, is guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, may be punished as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-12)
CHAPTER 93: DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
Section
   
93.01   State law adopted
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   It is hereby declared the intent of the Board of Trustees to adopt the
provisions of 11 O.S. § 22-111 as to the cleaning and moving of property;
hearing; costs; and lien.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1) (Ord. 345, passed 6-6-2013)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this
chapter or any legal order or regulation made pursuant thereto, may be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as set forth
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 345, passed 6-6-2013)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Animals at large
   
94.03   Pasturing in public areas
   
94.04   Swine prohibited
   
94.05   Keeping domestic livestock and small animals
   
94.06   Animals which disturb
   
94.07   Buildings for animals
   
94.08   Stables, kennels, coops; location
   
94.09   Sanitation
   
94.10   Inspection by health officer
   
94.11   Vaccination of dogs
   
94.12   Tax; registration; tag
   
94.13   Tag regulations
   
94.14   Vicious dogs
   
94.15   Rabid dogs
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal or fowl.
   AT LARGE. Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under
the control of, or occupied by, the owner, and if not under the direct control
of the owner, a member of immediate family over 12 years of age or an agent of
the owner, by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner’s premises or not.
   DIRECT CONTROL. The owner is at all times fully and clearly within the
unobstructed sight and hearing of the dog, that the dog is obedient to the
owner’s visual and/or voice commands, and that the owner has with him or her at
all times a visible leash, cord, chain or other harness.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal
remains, or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten days or more,
shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog which has bitten, or attempted to bite, any person
without undue provocation, or which attacks, or barks or growls at and acts as
if it intended to attack or bite, or bites a person or persons, when not unduly
provoked.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1) (Ord. 335, passed 10-8-2009)
§ 94.02 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   Prohibited; town authority.
      (1)   No owner shall permit any animal owned, harbored or kept by him or
her, including a dog or cat, to be at large; and it is unlawful for any animal,
including a dog or a cat, to be at large at any time within the town.
      (2)   The town may tax, regulate and dispose of animals in accordance
with 11 O.S. § 22-115. Taxation and regulation may be established by resolution
or ordinance.
      (3)   The town may impound any dog which is running at large.
      (4)   Any licensed dog may be reclaimed by its owner upon paying: a
redemption fee as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees; a per diem fee
as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees and the costs of boarding and
keeping the dog; and proof of vaccination for rabies by a veterinarian that
complies with OAC 310:599-3-8 showing that the dog was vaccinated within the
last year. The owner may then reclaim their dog once they have been issued any
citations deemed appropriate by the Police Department stemming from violations
of this section.
   (B)   Turning animals at large. It is unlawful for any person to open any
enclosure in which any animal is confined as required by ordinance so as to
turn such animal at large, or in any manner to turn such animal at large.
   (C)   Owners responsible for costs. It is the animal owners responsibility
to pay costs associated with the impoundment/shelter of their animal. These
costs include, but are not limited to, an administrative fee, food, water and
impoundment/shelter fees. These fees are due prior to the release of their
animal. Payment will be made to the town offices which will authorize the
release of their animal.
   (D)   Cumulative effect. The provisions of this section are cumulative to
any other sections of the town code or statutes regarding animals running at
large.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2) (Ord. 335, passed 10-8-2009; Ord. 351, passed 7-10-2014)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, federal, state, town or other,
on any railroad right-of-way, or any property without the consent of the person
owning or controlling such property.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWINE PROHIBITED.
   No swine shall be kept within the town except temporarily in a stockyard
awaiting transportation, or except upon a tract not within any subdivision and
not less than seven acres in size.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 KEEPING DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK AND SMALL ANIMALS.
   (A)   Domestic livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, swine, fowl
or horses, shall not be maintained, kept or raised within the town except
within a district zoned for agriculture with the following exception. In areas
zoned residential on any parcel having a residence and having a combined lot
size of one acre or more, one horse may be kept. One additional horse per
22,000 square feet exceeding one acre excluding the structures and required
front and side yards may be kept. Pens and structures housing the animals shall
be more than 100 feet from any other residence. The enclosure and buildings or
shelters for horses must be kept in a sanitary condition. No more than a total
of five chickens, ducks, hamsters, chinchillas, guineas, pigeons and other
similar size small animals or fowl may be kept in any zoning other than
agricultural. Such animals shall be kept within an enclosure sufficient to
prevent them from escaping therefrom, and all cages, hutches or houses shall be
kept in a clean and sanitary condition and disinfected in such a manner and to
the extent necessary to prevent odors or unsanitary conditions.
   (B)   Excluding horses, cattle, sheep, goats or other large animals may only
be kept in a district zoned agricultural. No person shall keep any animals or
fowl that create a nuisance. This section shall not authorize the keeping of
any animal that is considered wild and non-domesticated.
   (C)   Provided that this will not apply to livestock shows, rodeos or
circuses.
(Ord. 324, passed 10-11-2007; Ord. 328, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 94.06 ANIMALS WHICH DISTURB.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the town any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace and
quiet of any person or persons.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS.
   (A)   Materials. Every stable or building wherein any horse, mule, donkey,
pony, cow, goat, sheep or animal raised for furbearing purposes shall be kept
within the town shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that
it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times.
   (B)   Manure receptacle.
      (1)   Every such stable or building, if located within 200 feet of any
tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food
store, building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept, shall be provided with a water-tight and fly-
tight receptacle for manure.
      (2)   Such receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such
manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept
covered at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of the
contents.
   (C)   Space requirements. The minimum space required for animals referred to
in division (A) of this section is as follows:
      (1)   No more than one on less than one acre; and
      (2)   No more than two per acre as a maximum.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-6)
§ 94.08 STABLES, KENNELS, COOPS; LOCATION.
   No stable, dog kennel, chicken coop, dovecote, rabbit warren, yard or other
establishment wherein animals are kept shall be maintained closer than 40 feet
to any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail
food store, building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-7) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 SANITATION.
   (A)   Animal structures. Every stable, structure, pen, coop or place wherein
an animal is kept or permitted to be shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition, devoid of rodents and vermin, and free from objectionable
odors.
   (B)   Manure. Manure shall be hauled outside the town in a manner which does
not jeopardize the public health, or else shall be spread evenly upon the
ground and turned under at once or as soon as the weather permits.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-8)
§ 94.10 INSPECTION BY HEALTH OFFICER.
   The health officer, upon complaint of any person, shall inspect any
structure or place where an animal is kept, and may do so on his or her own
initiative. He or she may issue any such reasonable order as he or she may deem
necessary to the owner of such animal to cause such animal to be kept as
provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He
or she may make a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any person for
violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order; but
this shall not abridge the right of others to make such complaint.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9)
§ 94.11 VACCINATION OF DOGS.
   The owner of a dog shall have the dog vaccinated against rabies by a
veterinarian or other authorized person every calendar year or, in the case of
a pup, before he or she is six months old. The person vaccinating the dog shall
furnish the owner a certificate of vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-10)
§ 94.12 TAX; REGISTRATION; TAG.
   (A)   Tax. A tax as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees for every
male or spayed female dog more than six months of age, and another tax as set
forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees for every unspayed female dog more than
six months of age, is hereby levied upon the owner of any such dog kept or
harbored within the town.
   (B)   Exceptions. The tax shall not apply to a dog only temporarily brought
and kept within the town, nor to a dog brought within the town to participate
in a dog show, nor to a “seeing eye” dog when such dog is actually being used
by a blind person to aid him or her in going from place to place, nor to dogs
being kept in kennels or pet shops for sale.
   (C)   Payment. The owner shall pay such tax to the town offices for every
calendar year before May 1 thereof, or upon acquiring after said day any dog
within the town upon which the tax has not been paid for the year in which
acquired, or upon bringing a dog into the town after said day.
   (D)   Proof of vaccination. Before the town offices accept any money offered
in payment of the tax for a dog or issues a license for it, the person offering
the tax shall present to the town offices the certificate of a veterinarian or
other person legally authorized to immunize dogs, showing that the dog has been
immunized against rabies during the calendar year (that is, since last December
31).
   (E)   Registration. The owner of the dog shall, at the time of paying the
tax, register the dog by giving to the town offices the name and address of the
owner, the name, breed, color and sex of the dog, and such other reasonable
information as the town offices may request.
   (F)   Tag. The town offices thereupon shall deliver an original receipt to
the taxpayer and also an appropriate tag for the dog. Such tag shall constitute
a license for the dog.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-11) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 94.13 TAG REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Placement on collar. The owner shall cause the tag received from the
town offices to be affixed to the collar of the dog upon which the tax has been
paid so that the tag can easily be seen by officers of the town; and the owner
shall see that the tag is so worn by the dog at all times.
   (B)   Lost tags. In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for
which it was issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by applying to
the town offices, presenting the original receipt, and paying a fee as set
forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees.
   (C)   Counterfeiting or unlawfully using tags. No person shall counterfeit,
or attempt to counterfeit, any tag issued for a dog as provided in this
chapter, or take from any dog a tag legally placed upon it, or place such tag
upon a dog for which the tag was not specifically issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-12) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 94.14 VICIOUS DOGS.
   Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of another when the
dog, without undue provocation, bites him, her or another, or attacks, or
attempts to bite or attack, him, her or another in such manner that an
ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that the person toward whom
the efforts of the dog are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise
physically harmed.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-13)
§ 94.15 RABID DOGS.
   Any person may kill a dog the appearance or conduct of which is such as
would cause an ordinarily prudent person to believe the dog to be afflicted
with rabies.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-14)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this
chapter or any legal order or regulation made pursuant thereto shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as set forth
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-15)
CHAPTER 95: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
95.01   Conditions of construction
   
95.02   Retroactive application
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 CONDITIONS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Private swimming pools may be constructed as an accessory use, subject to
the following conditions.
   (A)   All swimming pools having a water depth of two feet or greater (above
ground and below ground) are required to have a construction permit. A permit
fee as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees shall be required.
   (B)   All aboveground pools setting at least three feet above ground level
shall be enclosed by a four-foot-high wood fence, chain link fence, wrought
iron or ornamental steel fence with slats no more than four inches apart, or
similar fencing as approved by the code enforcement officer or his or her
designee. This fencing shall be erected in addition to any existing railing
around the pool. It is recommended that the fencing completely enclose the rear
yard area, however, it shall be required to completely enclose the pool area.
   (C)   All aboveground pools with more than three feet of water and in-ground
pools with a water depth of at least two feet into the ground shall be enclosed
by a six-foot-high wood fence, chain link fence, wrought iron or ornamental
steel fence with slats no more than four inches apart, or similar fencing as
approved by the building inspector. This fencing shall be erected in addition
to any existing railing around the pool. It is recommended that the fencing
completely enclose the rear yard area, however, it shall be required to
completely enclose the pool area.
   (D)   All gates to the fenced enclosed area around the pool shall be self-
closing with a spring hinge or closing device to allow the gates to close
automatically.
   (E)   All swimming pools utilizing any electrical facilities shall obtain an
electrical permit, and all electrical work shall be done by a licensed
electrician or the owner/occupant.
   (F)   All swimming pools shall be wired according to the National Electrical
Code as adopted by the town in Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
   (G)   Low voltage lighting located within six feet of the water’s edge shall
be on a 24-volt or less system, protected by a GFCI. Any lighting in pool
construction shall be 15 volts maximum.
   (H)   No swimming pool shall be constructed in front of the front building
line and no portion of the pool shall be constructed closer than ten feet to
the side and rear lot lines or across any easement. All pool equipment,
sidewalks and decks shall not be located within five feet of any side or rear
lot lines or across any easement.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1) (Ord. 327, passed 8-7-2008) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 RETROACTIVE APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall be applied retroactively. Any person with a noncompliant
swimming pool must comply with the provision stated herein within 90 days of
the passage of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) (Ord. 327, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance, an
offense, or misdemeanor thereby or who fails to do any act required by any such
provision, or who fails to do any act when such provisions declare such failure
to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor or who violates any legal
order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, or who maintains any
“nuisance” as defined in this chapter, is guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, may be punished as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3) (Ord. 327, passed 8-7-2008)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Acts prohibited
   
96.03   Exemptions
   
96.04   Fair Housing Board
   
96.05   Grievance procedure
   
96.06   Notices
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The general purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   Equal access. To secure for all people equal access to housing in all
neighborhoods; and
   (B)   Public welfare. To preserve the public safety, health and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-1) (Ord. 271, passed 2-3-1994)
§ 96.02 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, real estate broker, real estate
salesman or agent:
   (A)   Sale, leasing or rental. To refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or
otherwise transfer title or other interest in any housing, or real property
upon which residential housing is to be constructed, to any person, or to
discriminate in the terms or conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any
residential housing unit because of race, color, sex, religion, age, familial
status, handicap or national origin;
   (B)   Negotiation; misrepresentation. To refuse to negotiate with any person
for the sale, rental, or leasing of any residential property, or to represent
that such property is not available for inspection, sale, rental or lease when
in fact it is so available, because of such person’s race, color, sex,
religion, age, familial status, handicap or national origin;
   (C)   Inducement; change in neighborhood. To solicit or induce, or attempt
to solicit or induce, any person owning any interest in any residential housing
to sell, rent or lease, or not to sell, rent or lease such housing to any
person on the grounds of loss of value due to the present or prospective entry
into neighborhood of a person or persons of another race, color, sex, religion,
age, familial status, handicap or national origin, either by direct
solicitation or inducement or by the purchase of other property in the
neighborhood for the purpose of such inducement, or to distribute or cause to
be distributed material or making statements designed to induce a residential
property owner to sell or lease his or her property due to such change in
neighborhood; and
   (D)   False complaint. To file a complaint alleging a violation of this
chapter with knowledge that such complaint is false in any material respect, or
to file such complaint for the sole purpose of harassment.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-2) (Ord. 271, passed 2-3-1994) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall apply to:
   (A)   Religious organization. Any religious organization, association,
society or private club; a religious nonprofit organization, operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale or rental of dwelling units owned
and operated for other than a commercial purpose;
   (B)   Single-family house. Any single-family house sold or rented by an
owner, provided that such private individual owner does not own more than three
such single-family houses and was not the most recent resident of such house
prior to such sale with the exception granted to one such sale within a 24-
month period; provided further that such owner does not own or retain in his or
her behalf title to a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more
than three such single-family houses at any one time; provided further that
such sale or rental of such single-family house shall be excepted if such house
is sold or rented without the use in any manner of a sale or rental facilities
or employee thereof; and
   (C)   Dwellings for four or less families. Any dwellings containing living
quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four families
living independently of each other and the owner actually occupies one such
living quarters as his or her residence.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-3) (Ord. 271, passed 2-3-1994)
§ 96.04 FAIR HOUSING BOARD.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby created a Fair Housing Board of the town
(hereinafter referred to as “Board”), composed of the members of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Fair Housing Board to:
      (1)   Investigate complaints. Initiate, receive and investigate
complaints charging unlawful housing practices;
      (2)   Conciliation; hearings; findings. Seek conciliation of such
complaints, hold hearings, make findings of fact and publish its findings of
fact; and
      (3)   Rules and regulations. Adopt such rules and regulations as may be
necessary within the limits of this chapter, and carry out the purposes and
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-4) (Ord. 271, passed 2-3-1994)
§ 96.05 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.    The procedure for filing of complaints
regarding discriminatory housing practices, and the action on such complaints,
shall be in compliance with 25 O.S. §§ 1502.2 and 1502.3.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-5)
§ 96.06 NOTICES.
   Any and all notices required under the provisions of this chapter to be
served upon any person may be served personally on such person, or by mailing a
copy thereof by certified or registered mail, with return receipt requested, to
the most current business or residence address of such person.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-6) (Ord. 271, passed 2-3-1994)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful and constitute an offense for any person to violate any
of the provisions of this chapter, and any person found guilty of violating any
provisions shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and is subject, upon
conviction, to a fine as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and each day that an act or omission is
continued shall constitute a violation of this chapter, and be construed as a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-7) (Ord. 271, passed 2-3-1994)
CHAPTER 97: LIBRARY
Section
   
97.01   Library established; statutes adopted
§ 97.01 LIBRARY ESTABLISHED; STATUTES ADOPTED.
   There is hereby created a public library with reading rooms for the use and
benefit of the citizens of the town and vicinity. The provisions of 11 O.S. §§
31-101 et seq., and any and all amendments, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
CHAPTER 98: PARKS
Section
   
98.01   Parks designated
   
98.02   Discharging firearms
   
98.03   Defacing property
   
98.04   Injuring trees
   
98.05   Nuisance or indecency
   
98.06   Throwing stones or rubbish
   
98.07   Disorderly behavior
   
98.08   Fouling water
   
98.09   Building fires
   
98.10   Trespassing
   
98.11   Disturbing gatherings
   
98.12   Bicycle regulations
   
98.13   Watchman’s duties
   
98.14   Swimming pools
   
98.15   Fishing in Bullfoot Park
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PARKS DESIGNATED.
   All places heretofore owned by the town and used as parks are hereby
declared to be public parks within the meaning of this chapter, and are subject
to all rules and regulations set out in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
§ 98.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   No person shall discharge firearms in any public park.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.03 DEFACING PROPERTY.
   No person shall write upon or mark or deface in any manner or use in any
improper way any water closet, park seat, any building, fence or other property
in any park.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 INJURING TREES.
   No person shall break, cut, mutilate or injure, remove or carry away any
trees, shrubs, plants, flowers, stone or stone walk, bench, chair, seat, bower,
stand, structure, fence or property, or anything whatsoever in, upon or near
any park, or any street, avenue or highway around the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.05 NUISANCE OR INDECENCY.
   No person shall commit any nuisance or any offense designated as an offense
within this code of ordinances in the parks.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.06 THROWING STONES OR RUBBISH.
   No person shall throw stones or rubbish of any kind into any lake or pond or
stream or other place in the parks, except into receptacles designated for that
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.07 DISORDERLY BEHAVIOR.
   No person shall curse, swear or use abusive language or fight, throw stones,
or behave in a riotous or disorderly manner in any park.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-7) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.08 FOULING WATER.
   No person shall foul in any manner any pool, spring or drinking fountain or
stream in any park.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-8) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.09 BUILDING FIRES.
   No person, except park employees, shall make a fire for any purpose in said
parks, unless permission is given therefor by the Board of Trustees or
Chairperson of Park Committee, except in established and regulated places for
cooking or barbecuing.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-9) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.10 TRESPASSING.
   No person shall go or walk upon any space in said parks reserved for flowers
or other plants or otherwise invade any plot reserved by said town for
shrubbery or grass or flowers or for any other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-10) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.11 DISTURBING GATHERINGS.
   No person shall disturb or interfere with any public or social gathering or
program of any group of persons in any town park.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-11) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.12 BICYCLE REGULATIONS.
   No person shall ride or drive any bicycle, tricycle or motorcycle in said
parks, except upon the driveways thereof; and when passing another vehicle or
pedestrian from the rear to the front, such person shall pass to the left side
and at a moderate rate of speed. Bicycles, tricycles and motorcycles must not
travel more than two abreast.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-12) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.13 WATCHMAN’S DUTIES.
   The keepers and watchmen of the park shall be sworn in as special police and
be entrusted with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, and shall
at all times have the assistance of the regular police force in enforcing the
same.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-13)
§ 98.14 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Supervision. Swimming pools of the town or any other recreational
facility shall be under the Department of Parks and Recreation.
   (B)   Obeying hours and rules. It is further provided that no persons shall
trespass, climb upon any fence or otherwise enter the swimming pool area at
times not allowed and as provided by the rules and regulations set for the use
of any park, swimming facilities or other recreational facilities of the town,
and provided the town shall not be liable for any injury resulting from
climbing or any unlawful use of the swimming pool area or any other park area,
and parents of any child or children abusing such privileges shall be liable
for any misuse or abuse.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-14) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.15 FISHING IN BULLFOOT PARK.
   Fishing in Bullfoot Park is allowed within the following rules and
regulations:
   (A)   Rod and reel fishing only (i.e., no seining, no hand fishing and the
like);
   (B)   State licensing laws will apply;
   (C)   All bass and catfish will have a length limit of 14 inches, with no
limit on perch; and
   (D)   Limit of three bass or catfish or combination of per person/per day,
with no limit on perch.
(Ord. 331, passed 6-11-2009; Ord. 348, passed 11-12-2013; Ord. 355, passed 7-9-
2015) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute an offense,
and shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-15)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   SMOKING AND TOBACCO
      
113.   SOLICITORS
      
114.   POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS
      
115.   PAWNBROKERS
      
116.   TAXICABS
      
117.   GARAGE AND YARD SALES
      
118.   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
      
119.   RESTAURANTS AND FOOD VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   License; tax; term
   
110.02   Separate licenses required
   
110.03   Display of license
   
110.04   Revocation of license
   
110.05   Transfer prohibited
   
110.06   Duplicate license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE; TAX; TERM.
   (A)   License required; tax. It is unlawful for any person, firm,
association or corporation to engage in, exercise, or pursue any business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a license tax is levied by
any ordinance or ordinance provision without paying the license tax, and
securing and possessing a valid license therefor. Upon making proper
application to the town offices, the payment of the license tax, and
fulfillment of any other condition which may be prescribed by law and/or
ordinance, the town offices shall issue a license therefor.
   (B)   Term of license. Annual licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year.
When an annual license is issued after July 1 for the remainder of the year to
a person, firm, association or corporation just beginning to engage in,
exercise or pursue a business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, the
tax collected shall be the full amount of the annual tax.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   Every person, firm, association or corporation who engages in, exercises or
pursues a business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a
license is required, at or from more than one place in the town, or who engages
in, exercises or pursues more than one such business, profession, trade,
occupation or privilege, shall pay the fee, and secure a separate license, for
each such place and/or for each such business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 110.03 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his or her place of business or activity
where a person who has entered the place may readily see it; or, if he or she
has no particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and
display it to any person who requests to see it. Provided that, in lieu of the
above manner of displaying such licenses, when licenses are required for coin
operated music or amusement devices, vending machines and similar devices and
equipment, the license may be placed on or attached to such device or equipment
in such position and manner that it will be clearly visible; and shall be so
placed or attached if the license so states on its face. It is unlawful to fail
or refuse to display the license as required in this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued by the town to any person, firm, association or
corporation to engage in, exercise, or pursue any business, profession, trade,
occupation or privilege may be revoked by the Board of Trustees, after adequate
opportunity for a hearing, for the following reasons:
      (1)   The licensee is engaging in, exercising, or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege in such a manner that he or she has
created or is creating a public nuisance as defined by 50 O.S. §§ 1 and 2; and/
or
      (2)   Serious and repeated violation of the law or ordinances.
   (B)   Provided that, valid licenses may be revoked only when the business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege is one which the Board of Trustees
has power to prohibit because of its nature or because of the manner in which
it is engaged in, exercised or pursued.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 110.05 TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   Assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in this town.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 110.06 DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   Whenever any license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege, has been lost or destroyed without
wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the town office, on application,
shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the duplicate is
issued, the holder shall make and file with the town offices an affidavit that
the license has not been transferred, that it has been lost or destroyed
without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, and that, if believed
lost, the licensee has made diligent search for it and has not been able to
find it. The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the town
offices, shall be as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this title
or any legal order or regulation made pursuant thereto shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Licensing and Regulation
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Location restrictions
   
111.03   ABLE governance
   
111.04   Certificates of compliance
   
111.05   Occupational tax
   
111.06   Payment of tax
   
111.07   Annual report
   
111.08   Application for certificate; investigations
   
111.09   Issuance of certificates
   
111.10   Hours of operation
   
111.11   Persons under 21
Manufacture, Sale and Distribution
   
111.25   Purpose
   
111.26   Definitions
   
111.27   Location
   
111.28   Separate premises required
   
111.29   Transportation
   
111.30   Retail sales
   
111.31   Consumption in retail store
   
111.32   Wholesale transactions
   
111.33   Intoxicated persons; sales; drinking in public
   
111.34   Separate offense
   
111.35   Revocation of license
Low Point Beer
   
111.50   Sale, barter or gift to persons under 21
   
111.51   Consumption by persons under 21
   
111.52   Possession by minors
   
111.53   Sale for consumption on premises
   
111.54   Open containers
Youth Access to Alcoholic Beverages
   
111.65   Definitions
   
111.66   Sale of alcoholic beverages
   
111.67   Possession of alcoholic beverages
   
111.68   Loitering of persons under 21
 
   
111.99   Penalty
LICENSING AND REGULATION
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, words and phrases shall have the same meaning as
defined pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, at 37A O.S. §§
1-101 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-1) (Ord. 372, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 111.02 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any package store, mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment or bottle club which has been
licensed by the ABLE Commission and which has as its main purpose the selling
or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or package
store, to be located within 300 feet of any public or private school or church
property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities; however, a college or university located within an improvement
district created pursuant to 11 O.S. § 39-103.1 may waive the 300 foot
requirement by providing written notice to the establishment seeking the
license and to the ABLE Commission; provided, a college or university prior to
waiving the 300 foot requirement found in this division (A) shall publish a
notice of its intention to waive such requirement in a legal newspaper of
general circulation within the state at least 30 days but no more than 40 days
prior to providing any written notice, waiving the 300 foot requirement, to the
establishment seeking the license or to the ABLE Commission. As used in this
division (A), LEGAL NEWSPAPER OF GENERAL CIRCULATION WITHIN THIS STATE means a
newspaper meeting the requisites of a newspaper for publication of legal
notices as prescribed in 25 O.S. § 106cite in a majority of the counties in
this state.
   (B)   The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such public or private school or church to the nearest
perimeter wall of the premises of any such mixed beverage establishment, beer
and wine establishment, bottle club or package store which has been licensed to
sell alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Mixed beverage establishments, beer and wine establishments or
bottle clubs, which have been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-
premises consumption or retail package stores prior to November 1, 2000;
provided, if at the time of application for license renewal the licensed
location has not been in actual operation for a continuous period of more than
60 days, the license shall not be renewed; or      (2)   Establishments
licensed prior to October 1, 2018, to sell low-point beer which were permitted
to be located within 300 feet of any public or private school or church
property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities, pursuant to the provisions of 37 O.S. § 163.27.
      (3)   Such establishments shall be permitted to have any license in
effect on October 1, 2018, transferred to a mixed beverage license; provided,
if such an establishment ceases to regularly be open to the public or changes
ownership, the provisions of this division (C)(2) shall cease to apply.
   (D)   (1)   If any school or church shall be established within 300 feet of
any package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or
bottle club subject to the provisions of this section after such package store,
mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or bottle club has
been licensed, the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the
renewal of such license if there has not been a lapse of more than 60 days.
      (2)   When any mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment
or bottle club subject to the provisions of this section which has a license to
sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption, or package store, changes
ownership or the operator thereof is changed and such change of ownership
results in the same type of business being conducted on the premises, the
provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the issuance of a
license to the new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise qualified.
   (E)   Any interested party may protest a location as follows:
      (1)   Any interested party may protest the application for or granting of
a license for a package store, or for a mixed beverage establishment, beer and
wine establishment or bottle club which has as its main purpose the selling or
serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, based on an
alleged violation of this section. To be considered by ABLE Commission, the
protest must:
         (a)   Be submitted in writing;
         (b)   Be signed by the person protesting;
         (c)   Contain the mailing address and address of residence, if
different from the mailing address of the protester;
         (d)   Contain the title of the person signing the protest, if the
person is acting in an official capacity as a church or school official; and
         (e)   Contain a concise statement explaining why the application is
being protested.
      (2)   Within 30 days of the date of receipt of a written protest, the
ABLE Commission shall conduct a hearing on the protest if the protest meets the
requirements of division (E)(1) of this section.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (E), the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         INTERESTED PARTY.
            1.   A parent or legal guardian whose child or children attend the
church or school which is alleged to be closer to the mixed beverage
establishment or bottle club which has as its main purpose the selling or
serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or package
store, than is allowed by this section;
            2.   An official of a church which is alleged to be closer to the
mixed beverage establishment or bottle club which has as its main purpose the
selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or
package store, than is allowed by this section; or
            3.   An official of a school which is alleged to be closer to the
mixed beverage establishment or bottle club which has as its main purpose the
selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or
package store, than is allowed by this section.
(Ord. 372, passed 8-13-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 ABLE GOVERNANCE.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter all matters relating to
the regulation of alcoholic beverages shall be governed by the provisions of
the Alcohol Beverage Control Act, codified in 37A O.S., except as may be
provided for by the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 372, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 111.04 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Town Clerk to issue certificates
of compliance with municipal zoning ordinances and health, safety and fire
codes as required by 37A O.S. Applicants shall furnish to the office of the
Town Clerk such information as the town staff may require, together with bond
or surety sufficient to satisfy the occupational tax imposed by this chapter.
Said bond or surety shall be payable to the town at such time as the applicant
is licensed by the ABLE Commission.
   (B)   An applicant’s proposed location and use thereof shall be in
conformance with the laws of the state and with the ordinances of the town and
shall pass all necessary health, safety and fire code inspections or no
certificate of compliance shall issue. The Town Clerk shall act with regard to
the issuance or refusal of said certificates of compliance within 20 days after
the receipt of an application therefore.
(Ord. 372, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 111.05 OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   (A)   The fee schedule hereinafter set forth, shall be levied and collected
by the Town Clerk, or the Clerk’s designee, for the applicable license, fees,
permits or occupational tax levies, prior to the issuance of any such license
permit or conducting of the business of serving alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   The tax hereby levied shall be paid no later than July 1 following the
issuance or renewal of a liquor license by the state and on or before the same
day for each year thereafter.
   (C)   The aforelisted occupational tax rate for initial applications shall
be proportional to the number of calendar months remaining in the license year
during which application is made.
   (D)   Failure to timely pay to the town any initial or renewal occupation
tax as required hereunder shall constitute a municipal offense, the penalty for
which upon conviction shall be punished for a Class B offense as set forth in
the penal code of the town. Each day in which such tax remains due and unpaid
shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-2) (Ord. 372, passed 8-13-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Initial payment. Any state licensee originally entering upon any
occupation herein listed shall pay the tax therefor at the town offices on or
before the date upon which he or she enters upon such occupation. Said licensee
shall provide a copy of his or her current state license before payment of an
occupation tax will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the tax
annually on or before July 1 of each year.
   (B)   Expiration date. All occupation taxes levied under the provisions of
this subchapter shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   (C)   Tax prorated.
      (1)   Tax to be prorated. The occupation tax subject to this subchapter
shall be prorated on a monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins
operations.
      (2)   Method. The amount of any occupation tax levied shall be computed
prorated upon the months remaining in the year ending June 30. Such taxes paid
on or before the fifteenth day of any month shall be on the basis of the first
day of said month, and such taxes paid after the fifteenth day of any month
shall be on the basis of the first day of the next succeeding month.
   (D)   Receipt; posting. Upon payment of the said occupation tax, the town
offices shall issue a receipt to said state licensee, which said licensee shall
post in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein he or she carries on his or
her occupation.
   (E)   Payment required. No brewer, distiller, winemaker, Oklahoma winemaker,
rectifier, wholesaler, Class B wholesaler or retail package store shall do
business in the town until the occupation tax levied by this subchapter shall
have been paid in full to the town offices and receipt issued therefor.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by
this chapter without paying said occupation tax imposed therefor in advance of
such operation is guilty of an offense against the town and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day of such violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-3) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The town shall make an annual report to the ABLE Commission, covering the
fiscal year, showing the number and classes of licensees subject to the
occupation tax and the amount of money collected from said tax.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-4)
§ 111.08 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE; INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Procedure. Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the
zoning, fire, health and safety codes of the town shall apply at the town
offices by:
      (1)   Filing. Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that
office; and
      (2)   Fee. Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount of
as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees at the time of filing.
   (B)   Investigation. Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of
compliance the Mayor shall cause an investigation to be made to determine
whether the premises proposed for licensed operations comply with the
provisions of the zoning ordinance and any health, fire, building and other
safety codes applicable to it.
   (C)   Action by town. The town offices shall act on all such applications
within 20 days of receipt thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-5) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 111.09 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Certificate of zoning. Upon finding that the premises of an applicant
for a certificate is in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a
certificate of zoning shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
   (B)   Certificate of compliance. Upon finding that the premises of an
applicant for a certificate is in compliance with all applicable fire, safety
and health codes, a certificate of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE
Commission.
   (C)   Signatures. The above certificates of compliance shall be signed by
the Mayor or by the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-6)
§ 111.10 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No retail package store premises shall be open for the purpose of
selling any alcoholic beverage at any hour other than between the hours of 10:
00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
   (B)   No sales shall be made or retail package store premises be allowed to
remain open for the purpose of making sales or receiving deliveries of
alcoholic liquors on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary or special
election while the polls are open whether on a national, state, county, city or
town election, or on New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Labor
Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-7) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 PERSONS UNDER 21.
   (A)   Employment. No holder of any license issued by the state’s Alcoholic
Beverage Laws Enforcement Commission shall employ any person under the age of
21 years of age in the selling or handling of alcoholic beverages within the
town.
   (B)   Furnishing alcohol. No person shall knowingly sell, furnish or give
any alcoholic beverage to any person under 21 years of age, or to any
intoxicated, insane or mentally deficient person.
   (C)   Permission on premises. No retail package store owner, operator, or
employee shall permit any person under 21 years of age to enter into, remain
within or loiter about the premises of said store.
   (D)   Misrepresentation of age. No person under the age of 21 years shall
misrepresent his or her age in writing or by presenting false documentation of
age for the purpose of inducing any person to sell him or her alcoholic
beverage.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-8) Penalty, see §
111.99
MANUFACTURE, SALE AND DISTRIBUTION
§ 111.25 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the town to
preserve the public peace, safety, health and good order thereof, and to aid
the enforcement of the policy of the state as established by the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-1)
§ 111.26 DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions listed is 37A O.S. § 1-103, entitled “Definitions”, and any
and all amendments, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as
if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-2)
§ 111.27 LOCATION.
   No person shall own, operate, maintain or be interested in any retail
alcoholic beverage store which is located at a place within this town which is
forbidden as a location for such store by state laaws..
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-3) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 SEPARATE PREMISES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Separation of premises. No person shall maintain, operate or assist,
in any manner, the maintenance or operation of a retail alcoholic beverage
store or package store in premises which are not separated from adjoining
premises on which any other goods, wares or merchandise are sold or services
are rendered by nontransparent walls, broken only, if at all, by a passageway
to which the public is not admitted.
   (B)   Taking beverage through passageway. No person shall take any alcoholic
beverage through any passageway described in division (A) of this section, for
the purpose of selling or reselling such beverage, or for the purpose of
delivery thereof in connection with a sale of such beverages.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-4) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 TRANSPORTATION.
   No person within the town shall knowingly transport in any vehicle upon a
public highway, street or alley any alcoholic beverage except in the original
container which shall not have been opened and the seal upon which shall not
have been broken and from which the original cap or cork shall not have been
removed, unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment,
which shall include the spare tire compartment in a vehicle commonly known as a
station wagon and panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-5) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.30 RETAIL SALES.
   (A)   Sale restricted. No person shall sell at retail, and no person shall
deliver in consequence or in completion of such a sale, any alcoholic beverages
at any place in the town except at a retail alcoholic beverage store in strict
conformity with this subchapter and the laws of the state.
   (B)   Manner of sale.
      (1)   No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic beverages at a retail
alcoholic beverage store other than:
         (a)   In retail containers;
         (b)   At ordinary room temperatures;
         (c)   In the original package; and
         (d)   For consumption off the premises.
      (2)   No person owning, employed in or in any manner assisting in the
maintenance and operation of such a store shall suffer or permit any alcoholic
beverage to be consumed, or any retail container of such beverage to be opened,
on the premises of such store.
   (C)   Sale on credit. No person, at any retail alcoholic beverage store in
this town, shall sell any alcoholic beverage on credit.
   (D)   Prizes or premiums. No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic
beverage store, and no person employed therein, shall offer or furnish any
prize, premium, gift or similar inducement to a consumer in connection with a
sale of alcoholic beverage.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-6) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31 CONSUMPTION IN RETAIL STORE.
   No person shall drink or consume in any manner alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store, nor shall any person open or
break the seal of any original package or retail container containing alcoholic
beverages on the premises of any such retail alcoholic beverage store.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-7) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 WHOLESALE TRANSACTIONS.
   No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages, and no officer, agent or
employee of such a dealer, shall sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic
beverage store in the town any amount of spirits or wines on Saturday of any
week, on Sunday of any week, on New Year’s Day, on Memorial Day, on the Fourth
of July, on Labor Day, on Veterans Day, on Thanksgiving Day, on Christmas Day
or while the polls are open on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary
or special election, whether national, state, county, or town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-8) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 INTOXICATED PERSONS; SALES; DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Sale to intoxicated persons. No person, at any place within this town,
shall sell, deliver or knowingly furnish any alcoholic beverage to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally
deficient.
   (B)   Drinking in public. No person within this town shall drink
intoxicating liquor in any public place, nor shall any person be intoxicated in
a public place within this town.
   (C)   Places of business. No person operating a café, restaurant, club, or
any place of recreation within this town and no employee engaged in connection
with the operation of such a café, restaurant, or club, or place of recreation,
shall permit any person to be drunk or intoxicated in such place of business.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-9) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   As to any violation of any provision of §§
111.27 to
111.33 of this subchapter which consist in the maintenance of a physical
condition of premises or of physical structures, each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-10)
§ 111.35 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter shall, in addition to
the penalties provided herein, be cause for revocation of the license issued to
any such person, partnership, firm or corporation, following notice and an
opportunity for hearing; and the same may be thus revoked by a majority vote of
the Board of Trustees, and upon such revocation no part of the license fee paid
shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-11)
LOW POINT BEER
§ 111.50 SALE, BARTER OR GIFT TO PERSONS UNDER 21.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter or give to any person
under age 21 any beverage containing more than 0.5% of alcohol measured by
volume and not more than 3.2% of alcohol measured by weight. Provided, a parent
as regards his or her own child or children is excepted from the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-1) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.51 CONSUMPTION BY PERSONS UNDER 21.
   No person under the age of 21 years of age shall consume or possess with
intent to consume any low point beer, as defined in O.S. § 37A-1-103, in any
public place within the town. Any person under the age of 18 shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of this subchapter and, if convicted, subject to the
penalty provisions of this subchapter. Provided, the provisions of this section
shall not apply when such persons are under the direct supervision of their
parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.52 POSSESSION BY MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful and constitute an offense for any person under the age
of 21 years to be in possession of any low point beer while such person is upon
any public street, road or highway, or in any public building or place.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-3) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.53 SALE FOR CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   (A)   Employment of persons under 21. It is unlawful for any owner, manager
or operator of a place where low point beer is sold for consumption on the
premises, except an eating place where the service of such beverages is
incidental to the main business of serving food, to employ a person under 21
years of age to work in such place.
   (B)   Loitering, drinking, working by persons under 21. It is unlawful for
the owner, manager, operator or person in charge of such a place to permit a
person under 21 years of age to resort to or loiter in such place or to drink
such beverages therein, or to sell or otherwise furnish such beverage to a
person under 21 years old, or to permit a person under 21 years of age to work
in such place.
   (C)   Conduct of persons under 21. It is also unlawful for a person under 21
years of age to resort to or loiter in such a place, to buy or otherwise secure
such beverage therein, or to drink such beverage therein.
   (D)   Intoxicated persons. It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator
of such a place to sell or otherwise furnish such beverages to an intoxicated
person or to permit an intoxicated person to remain or loiter therein.
   (E)   Gambling; disorderly conduct. It is unlawful for the owner, manager or
operator of such a place to permit therein gambling, betting, operation of a
lottery, sale, furnishing or drinking of intoxicating liquor, disorderly
conduct, loud or disturbing language, noise or music, profane language, or any
other violation of the laws of the state or of the ordinances of the town.
   (F)   Hours of operation. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to sell low point beer for consumption on the premises between the hours of 2:
00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., or any day excepting Saturday nights, when such
beverages may not be sold between the hours of 2:00 a.m. Sunday and 7:00 a.m.
on the following Monday.
   (G)   Contests of physical strength. It is unlawful for the owner, manager
or operator of such a place to permit therein fighting, boxing, wrestling or
other contests of physical strength.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-4) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.54 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any low point beer containing
more than 0.5% alcohol by volume and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight,
except in the original container, which shall not have been opened, and from
which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened
container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the
spare tire compartment in a station wagon, or panel truck, or any outside
compartment which is not accessible to the driver or any other person in the
vehicle while it is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-5) Penalty, see §
111.99
YOUTH ACCESS TO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 111.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Includes hydrated oxide of ethyl, ethyl alcohol, ethanol or spirits
of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced. It does not
include wood alcohol or alcohol which has been denatured or produced as
denatured in accordance with acts of congress and relations promulgated
thereunder.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those terms are
defined herein and also includes mixed beverages, as defined herein, as well as
every liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or
beer and capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings.
   BEER. Any beverage containing more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight and
obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or decoction of barley,
or other grain, malt or similar products. BEER may or may not contain hops or
other vegetable products. BEER includes, among other things, beer, stout, lager
beer, porter and other malt or brewed liquors, but does not include sake, known
as Japanese rice wine.
   MIXED BEVERAGE. A serving of a beverage composed in whole or in part of an
alcoholic beverage in a sealed or unsealed container.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust or
association, however formed.
   PREMISES. The grounds and all buildings and appurtenances pertaining to the
grounds including any adjacent premises under the direct or indirect control of
a person.
   PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license for identification only or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as 21
years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage other than wine or beer which contains more than 0.5%
alcohol measured by volume and obtained by distillation, whether or not mixed
with other substances in solution, and includes those products known as
whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, vodka, liqueurs, cordials, and fortified wines and
similar compounds; but shall not include any alcohol liquid completely
denatured in accordance with the acts of congress and regulations pursuant
thereto.
   WINE. Includes any beverage containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume and
not more than 24% alcohol by volume at 60F obtained by the fermentation of the
natural contents of fruits, vegetables, honey, milk or other products
containing sugar, whether or not other ingredients are added, and includes
vermouth and sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
(Prior Code, § 3-2D-1) (Ord. 289, passed 3-6-1997)
§ 111.66 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Persons under 21. It is unlawful for any person to knowingly sell,
furnish or distribute in any manner any alcoholic beverage to another person
who is under 21 years of age, or to purchase in any manner an alcoholic
beverage on behalf of any such person. Provided, however, that it shall not be
unlawful for an employee under 21 years of age to handle such products when
required in the performance of the employee’s duties.
   (B)   Proof of age. A person engaged in the sale or distribution of
alcoholic beverages shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 3-2D-2) (Ord. 289, passed 3-6-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.67 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It is unlawful for a person who is under 21 years of age to purchase, or
accept receipt of, or have in their possession an alcoholic beverage, or to
present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false,
fraudulent or not actually his or her own for the purpose of purchasing or
receiving an alcoholic beverage. Provided however, that it shall not be
unlawful for such a person to handle such alcoholic beverage when required in
the performance of such person’s duties.
(Prior Code, § 3-2D-3) (Ord. 289, passed 3-6-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.68 LOITERING OF PERSONS UNDER 21.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit, upon said person’s
premises, the entry or loitering of another person, under 21 years of age, and
who is consuming or in possession of an alcoholic beverage.
(Prior Code, § 3-2D-4) (Ord. 289, passed 3-6-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of §§
111.01 through
111.11 or any legal order or regulation made pursuant thereto shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be punished by a fine as set
forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-9)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §§
111.25 through
111.35 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day’s continuation of any such violation
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-12)
   (D)   Any person, firm, association, corporation or copartnership who shall
violate any of the provisions of the Penal Code of the state as adopted herein
shall severally for each and every such violation be guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine and costs as set forth
in the Penal Code, or a fine and costs as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, whichever is less. The imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-6)
   (E)   Any person who violates §§
111.66,
111.67 or
111.68 may be fined as set forth in §
10.99 of this code or ordinances. Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown,
and reasonably relied upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action
brought pursuant to this division (E).
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-5)
(Ord. 289, passed 3-6-1997)
CHAPTER 112: SMOKING AND TOBACCO
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Sale of tobacco products
   
112.03   Possession of tobacco products
Youth Access to Tobacco
   
112.15   Definition
   
112.16   Furnishing, giving or sale of tobacco products to minors
   
112.17   Receipt of tobacco products by a minor
   
112.18   Proper signage required
   
112.19   Notice to retail employees
   
112.20   Limited access to vending machines
   
112.21   Distribution of tobacco product samples
   
112.22   Sale of tobacco products except in original sealed package
   
112.23   No public access of tobacco
   
112.24   Restrictions on manner of enforcement
   
112.25   Transfer of any material or device used in smoking, chewing or
consumption of tobacco to minors prohibited; administrative fine for violations
   
112.26   Increase of fines; fee schedule
Smoking in Public Places
   
112.40   Adoption of state law
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license for identification only or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as 18
years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 287, passed 12-5-1996)
§ 112.02 SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Sale to minors unlawful. It is unlawful for any person to sell,
furnish or distribute in any manner any tobacco product to another person who
is under 18 years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product on
behalf of any such person. Provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for
an employee under 18 years of age to handle such products when required in the
performance of the employee’s duties.
   (B)   Proof of age. A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco
products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient if
an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the
prospective purchaser may be under 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 287, passed 12-5-1996) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   It is unlawful for a person who is under 18 years of age to purchase, or
accept receipt of, or have in their possession a tobacco product, or to present
or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false, fraudulent or
not actually his or her own, for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any
tobacco product. Provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for such a
person to handle such tobacco product when required in the performance of such
person’s duties.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 287, passed 12-5-1996) Penalty, see §
112.99
YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
§ 112.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE. A drivers license, license for identification only or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as 18
years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE. A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost
for the purpose of promoting the product.
   SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
   TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a drivers license or other government-
issued photo identification.
   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a drivers license or other government-issued photo identification.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009)
§ 112.16 FURNISHING, GIVING OR SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner
any tobacco product to another person who is under 18 years of age, or to
purchase in any manner a tobacco product on behalf of any such person.
Provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for an employee under 18 years
of age to handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the
employee’s duties.
   (B)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products shall
demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary
person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser
might be less than 18 years of age.
   (C)   If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco
products has demanded proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient
who is not less than 18 years of age, the failure to subsequently require proof
of age shall not constitute a violation of division (B) of this section.
      (1)   When a person violates divisions (A) or (B) of this section, he or
she shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a
fine as follows:
         (a)   Any person who violate the provisions of §
112.21 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances;
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty, upon a third offense within a
two-year period, following the first offense the store’s license to sell
tobacco products may be suspended for a period not exceeding 30 days; or
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty, upon a fourth or subsequent
offense within a two-year period following the first offense. In addition to
any other penalty, the store’s license to sell tobacco products may be
suspended for a period not exceeding 60 days.
      (2)   Pursuant to state law, when it has been determined by a municipal
court that a penalty shall include a license suspension, the ABLE Commission
will notify the Oklahoma Tax Commission, and the Tax Commission will suspend
the store’s license to sell tobacco products at the location where the offense
occurred for the period of time prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
      (3)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found guilty
of such violation, if such person proves that:
         (a)   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product
presented a driver’s license or other government-issued photo identification
purporting to establish that such individual was 18 years of age or older; and
         (b)   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver’s license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
      (4)   Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any
person cited for a violation of this section, if such person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appealing on the drivers license or other government-issued photo
identification was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of
the defense described in this division (C) does not affect the availability of
any other defense under any other provision of law.
   (D)   If the sale is made by an employee of the owner of a store at which
tobacco products are sold at retail, the employee shall be guilty of the
violation and shall be subject to the fine. Each violation by any employee of
an owner of a store licensed to sell tobacco products shall be deemed a
violation against the owner for purposes of a license suspension pursuant to
divisions (C) of this section. An owner of a store licensed to sell tobacco
products shall not be deemed in violation of this section for any acts
constituting a violation by any person, when the violation occurs prior to
actual employment of the person by the store owner or the violation occurs at a
location other than the owner’s retail store. For purposes of determining the
liability of a person controlling franchises or business operations in multiple
locations, for any violations of divisions (A) or (B) of this section, each
individual franchise or business location shall be deemed a separate entity.
   (E)   Upon failure of the employee to pay the fine within 90 days of the day
of the assessment of such fine, the Municipal Court Clerk shall notify the
Department of Public Safety and the Department will, pursuant to state law,
suspend or not issue a driver’s license to the employee until proof of payment
has been furnished to the Department of Public Safety. Upon failure of a store
owner to pay the administrative fine within 90 days of the assessment of the
fine, the Clerk of the Municipal Court shall notify the State Tax Commission
and the Tax Commission shall suspend the store’s license to sell tobacco
products until proof of payment has been furnished to the State Tax Commission.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009)
§ 112.17 RECEIPT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS BY A MINOR.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person who is less than 18 years of age to
purchase, receive or accept receipt of, or have in their possession, a tobacco
product, or to present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which
is false or fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, for the purpose of
purchasing or receiving any tobacco product. Provided, however, it shall not be
unlawful for an employee who is less than 18 years of age to handle such
tobacco products when required in the performance of such person’s the
employee’s duties.
   (B)   (1)   When a person violates division (A) of this section, he or she
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine
as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees.
      (2)   Upon failure of the individual to pay the fine within 90 days of
the day of the fine, the Municipal Court Clerk shall notify the Department of
Public Safety and, by operation of state law, the Department shall suspend or
not issue a driver’s license to the individual until proof of payment has been
furnished to the Department of Public Safety.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009)
§ 112.18 PROPER SIGNAGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every person who sells or displays tobacco products at retail
shall post conspicuously and keep so posted at the place of business a sign, as
specified by the Alcoholic Beverage Law’s Enforcement (ABLE) Commission,
stating the following:
         IT’S THE LAW. WE DO NOT SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS
         TO PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
      (2)   The sign shall also provide the toll-free number operated by the
Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission for the purpose of
reporting violations of the Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco Act, being 63
O.S. § 1-229.11.
   (B)   When a person violates divisions (A) of this section he or she shall
be guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine as set
forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees for each day a violation occurs. Each
day a violation is continuing shall constitute a separate offense. The notice
required by division (A) of this section shall be the only notice required to
be posted or maintained in any store that sells tobacco products at retail.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009)
§ 112.19 NOTICE TO RETAIL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Every person engaged in the business of selling tobacco products at
retail store shall notify each individual employed by that person as a retail
sales clerk that state and local law:
      (1)   Prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco products to any
person under 18 years of age and the purchase or receipt of tobacco products by
any person under 18 years of age; and
      (2)   Requires that proof of age be demanded from a prospective purchaser
or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance
that the prospective purchaser or recipient may be less than 18 years of age.
   (B)   This notice shall be provided before the individual commences work as
a retail sales clerk. The individual shall signify that he or she has received
the requisite notice by reading and signing a notice stating the following:
I understand that state law prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco
products to persons less than 18 years of age and out-of-package sales, and
requires proof of age of purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would
conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser or recipient
may be under 18 years of age. I promise, as a condition of my employment, to
obey the law. I understand that violations by me may be punishable by fines,
suspension or nonissuance of my drivers license. In addition, I understand that
violations by me may subject the store owner to fines or license suspension.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009)
§ 112.20 LIMITED ACCESS TO VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell tobacco products through a
vending machine unless the vending machine is located:
   (A)   In areas of factories, businesses, offices or other places that are
not open to the public; and
   (B)   In places that are open to the public, but to which persons under 18
years of age are not admitted.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCT SAMPLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute tobacco
products or product samples to any person under 18 years of age.
   (B)   No person shall distribute tobacco products or product samples in or
on any public street, sidewalk, or park that is within 300 feet of any
playground, school or other facility when the facility is being used primarily
by persons under 18 years of age.
   (C)   Any person who violate the provisions of this section shall be fined
as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Upon failure of any individual to pay an administrative fine within 90
days of the assessment of such fine, the Municipal Court Clerk shall notify the
Department of Public Safety, and the Department, pursuant to state law, shall
suspend or not issue a driver’s license to the individual until proof of
payment has been furnished to the Department of Public Safety.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS EXCEPT IN ORIGINAL SEALED PACKAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in the
original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
   (B)   When a person violates division (A) of this section, the Municipal
Court Clerk shall assess such person an administrative fine as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees for each offense.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.23 NO PUBLIC ACCESS OF TOBACCO.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products in any manner that allows public access to the tobacco
product without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco product or an
employee or the owner of the store. The provisions of this division (A) shall
not apply to retail stores which do not admit into the store persons under 18
years of age.
   (B)   When a person violates division (A) of this section he or she shall be
guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine as set
forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees for each offense.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.24 RESTRICTIONS ON MANNER OF ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any conviction for a violation of any section within this subchapter
and any negative results from compliance checks performed by a police officer
pursuant to division (C) of this section shall be reported in writing to the
ABLE Commission within 30 days of such conviction or compliance check. Such
reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining second or subsequent violations, both
the offenses penalized by the ABLE Commission as administrative fines and the
offenses penalized by the municipality and reported to the ABLE Commission
shall be considered together in such determination.
   (C)   Persons under 18 years of age may be enlisted by the town to assist in
conducting compliance checks and enforcement; provided, such persons may be
used to test compliance only if written parental consent has been provided and
the testing is conducted under the direct supervision of the ABLE Commission or
conducted by another law enforcement agency if such agency has given written
notice to the ABLE Commission in the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
This division (C) shall not apply to the use of persons under 18 years of age
to test compliance if the test is being conducted by or on behalf of a retailer
of cigarettes, as defined in 68 O.S. § 301, at any location the retailer of
cigarettes is authorized to sell cigarettes. Use of persons under 18 years of
age to test compliance shall be unlawful and punishable by assessment of an
administrative fine as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009)
§ 112.25 TRANSFER OF ANY MATERIAL OR DEVICE USED IN SMOKING, CHEWING OR
CONSUMPTION OF TOBACCO TO MINORS PROHIBITED; ADMINISTRATIVE FINE FOR
VIOLATIONS.
   (A) It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner to
another person who is under 18 years of age any material or device used in the
smoking, chewing, or other method of consumption of tobacco, including
cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials of all types, and other
items designed primarily for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products.
   (B)   When a person violates division (A) of this section, an administrative
fine as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees for each offense may be imposed upon the person.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 INCREASE OF FINES; FEE SCHEDULE.
   All fines set forth within this subchapter may be increased, to the extent
allowed by state law, by resolution. It is not necessary to amend this
subchapter each time the municipality deems it timely to increase fines and
fees. A resolution may be adopted by the Board of Trustees and filed
accordingly. The Chief of Police shall maintain a current schedule of all fees
allowed under this subchapter in the Police Department.
(Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009)
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
§ 112.40 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   All provisions of 21 O.S. § 1247, as to smoking in public places and indoor
workplaces, and any and all amendments, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, especially §
112.02, shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown,
and reasonably relied upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action
brought pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4)
(Ord. 287, passed 12-5-1996; Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009)
CHAPTER 113: SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   License
   
113.03   Identification of vehicles
   
113.04   Business cards required
   
113.05   Orders
   
113.06   Exemption
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house or place to place in the
town for the purpose of selling or taking orders for sale, or offering to sell
or take orders for goods, wares or merchandise, including magazines, or any
article for future delivery, or for services to be rendered in the future, or
for the making, manufacturing or repairing of any article or thing whatsoever
for future delivery, including photographers and their agents.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1)
§ 113.02 LICENSE.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit, within the
meaning of §
113.01 of this chapter, without first obtaining a license to do so. Application
for such license shall be filed with the town offices and shall state the name
and address of the applicant, the name and address of the person, firm or
corporation which he or she represents, and the kind of goods offered for sale
or the service to be performed.
   (B)   Fee. The fee or tax for a license required by this section shall be as
set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 113.03 IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Every vehicle used in making solicitations governed by this chapter
shall have attached to both sides thereof a sign indicating the name and
address of the applicant and of the person, firm or corporation which he or she
represents and the kind of goods offered for sale or the service to be
performed.
   (B)   The letters on such sign shall be not less than two and one-half
inches in height.
   (C)   Such signs shall be presented to the Town Clerk and approved by him or
her prior to issuance of the license required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3)
§ 113.04 BUSINESS CARDS REQUIRED.
   A solicitor governed by this chapter shall present to each person solicited
by him or her a business card which contains the same information shown on the
vehicle signs required by §
113.04 of this chapter. Such card shall be presented to and approved by the
town offices prior to issuance of the license required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 113.05 ORDERS.
   All orders taken by solicitors shall be in writing in duplicate stating the
terms thereof and the amount paid in advance. One copy of said order shall be
given to the purchaser.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-5)
§ 113.06 EXEMPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to a person legally qualified to vote within
the town or to a person possessing all of the qualifications to vote in the
town, other than sufficient age.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-6)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor and any person shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-7)
CHAPTER 114: POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS
Section
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   Application for license
   
114.03   Offenses
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate any pool,
snooker or billiard hall, table or tables for the purpose of gain or profit, or
when a charge is made for playing the games, without first having procured a
license therefor as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Such licenses shall be issued by the town offices upon application therefor
in writing, setting forth the name of the owner and/or operator thereof, and
the proposed place of business, and the payment of a license fee as set forth
in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees. All such licenses shall be for a period of one
year, except that such licenses shall be forfeited and expire at once upon the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by the owner and/or operator
of any such place.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 114.03 OFFENSES.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating a pool,
snooker, or billiard hall, table or tables within the town to permit any
intoxicated person to loaf or loiter or be in or about such place of business.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates or neglects, or refuses to
comply with any regulation, requirement or provision of this chapter is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be fined as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which any violation occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4)
CHAPTER 115: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
115.01   Register
   
115.02   Receipt
   
115.03   Inspection
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 REGISTER.
   Every pawnbroker shall keep at his or her place of business a register, in
which he or she shall record in ink or with indelible pencil an adequate
description of all property purchased, taken or received by him or her,
including any number that may be thereon. He or she shall record in the
register the date when all property is received and also the name and place of
residence of the person leaving or pledging the property, including his or her
street and street number if any. He or she shall record in the register the
amount loaned, the interest charged, and the time when the loan is to become
due. All such entries shall be made within one hour after the purchase or
receipt of property. The register shall be kept clean and legible.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02 RECEIPT.
   The pawnbroker shall give without charge to the person leaving or pledging
property a legible ticket containing a true copy of all entries made in the
register concerning the property left or pledged.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-2)
§ 115.03 INSPECTION.
   The register herein required to be kept shall be subject to inspection at
any time by any police officer of the town, the Sheriff of the county, any
Deputy Sheriff of the county, the Town Attorney, the County Attorney, the Board
of Trustees and any person authorized in writing to make such inspection by the
Board of Trustees or the Chief of Police. Upon request, the pawnbroker shall
show to such officer or person for inspection any article or articles
purchased, taken, or received unless such article or articles have already been
disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-3)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this
chapter or any legal order or regulation made pursuant thereto shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as set forth
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-4)
CHAPTER 116: TAXICABS
Section
   
116.01   License for taxicab operators
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 LICENSE FOR TAXICAB OPERATORS.
   (A)   License required. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to operate one or more taxicabs in the town without securing a taxicab
operator’s license for each taxicab. Upon application, the town offices will
issue such license upon the following conditions:
      (1)   License tax. The applicant pay a license tax as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees for each taxicab to be operated; and
      (2)   Insurance. The applicant take out and file with the town offices a
standard liability and property damage insurance policy providing public
liability insurance for injury including accidental death of any person in the
amount of at least $5,000, and, if more than one person, at least $10,000; and
property damage insurance of not less than $5,000. Such license shall be in
effect only when such policy is in force.
   (B)   Expiration. Such licenses shall expire on June 30.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-1) (Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
Cross-reference:
   Buses and taxicabs, see §
73.11(D)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who performs any unlawful act as defined by any provision of this
chapter or who otherwise violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine as set forth
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day’s continuation of any such violation
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-2)
CHAPTER 117: GARAGE AND YARD SALES
Section
   
117.01   Definition
   
117.02   Permit required; exception; fee; compliance
   
117.03   Sales regulation
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE AND YARD SALE. A sale of five or more items of used clothing,
furniture, home appliances and merchandise generally used in a home, which has
been used by the person offering the same for sale.
(Ord. 358, passed 7-9-2015)
§ 117.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION; FEE; COMPLIANCE.
   No person, other than a public or private school, or church shall hold a
garage and yard sale without first obtaining a permit from the town hall, which
shall issue such permit upon application. The permit shall designate the days
and places of sale and shall be displayed at the time and place of the sale.
The permit fee is as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees.
(Ord. 358, passed 7-9-2015)
§ 117.03 SALES REGULATION.
   (A)   No merchandise shall be sold which belongs to anyone engaged in the
business of selling such merchandise.
   (B)   No more than four sales shall be had by the same occupant within one
calendar year at the same location.
   (C)   Sales shall not exceed three days in length, and no merchandise shall
be sold between 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (D)   Signs which are used for advertising a garage sale are temporary signs
and no sign shall be exhibited more than two days prior to the sale and must be
removed the last day of the sale. Such signs shall be no larger than two square
feet in surface area and shall be limited in number to two signs on the
property on which the garage sale is to be conducted, and two signs off the
premises and shall not be placed on private property without permission.
(Ord. 358, passed 7-9-2015) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who performs any unlawful act as defined by any provision of this
chapter or who otherwise violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine as set forth
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day’s continuation of any such violation
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 358, passed 7-9-2015)
CHAPTER 118: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Medical Marijuana
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   General requirements
   
118.03   Medical marijuana dispensary
   
118.04   Commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facilities
   
118.05   Medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facilities
   
118.06   Zoning
 
   
118.99   Penalty
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITIES. Any
medical marijuana growing or processing facility licensed by the state to grow
or process medical marijuana in excess of 12 plants. GROWING includes the
cultivation, manufacturing, processing, packaging, and distribution of
marijuana and marijuana products. PROCESSING includes including, but not
limited to, drying, cleaning, curing, packaging and extraction of active
ingredients to create medical marijuana, medical marijuana products or
concentrates.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. Any retail medical marijuana establishment
licensed by the state and the town to sell or dispense medical marijuana or
medical marijuana products.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FOR PERSONAL USE. Any individual licensed by
the state and the town to grow up to 12 plants within a single residence for
personal medical use.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE FACILITY. Any wholesale or
storage establishment licensed by the state and the town that acquires,
possesses, stores, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, sells or
dispenses marijuana or related supplies and educational materials to the holder
of a valid medical marijuana dispensary license.
   (B)   The town hereby adopts all other terms and definitions as established
by state law or Department of Health regulations. In the event of a conflict
between any definitions contained herein, the definition promulgated by the
state or the Department of Health shall prevail.
(Ord. 380, passed 2-13-2020)
§ 118.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any operator of a medical marijuana business shall have a valid
license from the state and the town prior to doing business.
   (B)   The license outlined in this subchapter will be subject to property
inspection by an authorized town inspector prior to issuance to ensure
compliance with all codes of the town.
   (C)   The property inspection will occur at a time scheduled and approved by
both the applicant and the town inspector.
   (D)   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   (E)   All structures, equipment and apparatuses shall comply with all
building and fire codes adopted by the state and the town.
   (F)   A medical marijuana business license application shall be filled out
and signed by the property and business owner and submitted to the Town Clerk
prior to scheduling an inspection.
   (G)   A nonrefundable license fee as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and
Fees, shall be paid at the time the application is submitted.
   (H)   The license fee shall be set according to and used to offset municipal
expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (I)   For the distance requirements outlined in this subchapter, the
distances described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line
from the nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described
in herein is located to the nearest property line of the building or unit in
which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located.
   (J)   All medical marijuana dispensary, commercial medical marijuana growing
and/or processing facilities, and medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage
facility establishments shall be located within an entirely enclosed and secure
structure, as required by the rules and regulations of the Department of
Health, as may be amended from time to time.
   (K)   The license holder shall remit all required state and town sales
taxes.
   (L)   The town issued license must be conspicuously posted at the place of
business.
   (M)   It is the intent of the town that nothing in this subchapter be
construed to:
      (1)   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers the health,
safety or welfare of the citizens of the town, or causes a public nuisance;
      (2)   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      (3)   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
   (N)   Additional regulations.
      (1)   The smell of noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
medical marijuana by a person possessing a valid state issued medical marijuana
license shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (2)   Smoking and vaping marijuana shall be prohibited on all town
property including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities.
      (3)   Revocation or suspension of municipal issued marijuana license;
hearing.
         (a)   The Town Administrator or designee shall revoke or suspend a
license issued under this subchapter on any of the following grounds:
            1.   The license was procured by fraudulent conduct or false
statement of a material fact or a fact concerning the applicant was not
disclosed at the time of his or her application, and such fact would have
constituted just cause for refusal to issue the license; or
            2.   Violation of town ordinance, state law or Department of Health
regulations governing medical marijuana.
         (b)   Prior to suspension or revocation, the permittee shall be given
notice of the proposed action to be taken and shall have an opportunity to be
heard before the Town Administrator. If an employee has been designated by the
Town Administrator, such employee shall make a report to the Town Administrator
together with a recommendation as to whether the license should be suspended or
revoked.
      (4)   Any person or entity applying for or issued a license by the town
shall comply with all state law and department of health rules and regulations,
as may be amended from time to time.
      (5)   Revocation of the state issued license shall result in immediate
revocation of the town issued license.
(Ord. 380, passed 2-13-2020)
§ 118.03 MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY.
   Medical marijuana dispensaries are hereby allowed within the municipal
boundaries of the town upon compliance with this subchapter, issuance of a
retail medical marijuana dispensary business license and the following
additional provisions.
   (A)   Location. Medical marijuana dispensary business license shall not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location would be located within
1,000 feet of any public or private school entrance.
   (B)   Conditions of operation.
      (1)   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises.
      (2)   The retail establishment must maintain a valid sales tax permit
issued by the state.
      (3)   No on premises use of marijuana or its derivatives shall be
allowed.
      (4)   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail medical marijuana business license.
   (C)   Fee.
      (1)   There shall be a business license fee and an annual renewal fee as
set forth above. The annual business license will expire on June 30 and shall
be renewed prior to July 1 each year.
      (2)   Failure to renew will result in a penalty fee of 50% of the annual
fee and shall require reinspection as required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 380, passed 2-13-2020)
§ 118.04 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITIES.
   Commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facilities are hereby
allowed within the municipal boundaries of the town upon compliance with this
subchapter, issuance of a commercial medical marijuana growing and/or facility
license and the following additional provisions.
   (A)   Conditions of operation.
      (1)   The facility shall be secure with limited access.
      (2)   The establishment must maintain a valid sales tax permit issued by
the state.
      (3)   The facility must be constructed in such a manner that the growing
of the medical marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public from the public
right-of-way.
      (4)   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with all Building and Fire Codes adopted by the
state and the town.
      (5)   The growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create
humidity, mold or other related problems.
      (6)   Growing medical marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   (B)   Fee. There shall be a business license fee and an annual renewal fee
as set forth above. The annual business license will expire on June 30 and
shall be renewed prior to July 1 each year. Failure to renew will result in a
penalty of 50% of the annual fee and shall require re-inspection as required by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 380, passed 2-13-2020)
§ 118.05 MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facilities are hereby allowed
within the municipal boundaries of the town upon compliance with this
subchapter, issuance of a medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facility
license and the following additional requirements.
   (A)   Conditions of operations.
      (1)   The facility shall be secure with limited access.
      (2)   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises. The retail establishment must maintain a valid sales
tax permit issued by the state.
   (B)   Fee. There shall be a business license fee and an annual renewal fee
as set forth above. The annual business license will expire on June 30 and
shall be renewed prior to July 1 each year. Failure to renew will result in a
penalty fee of 50% of the annual fee and shall require re-inspection as
required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 380, passed 2-13-2020)
§ 118.06 ZONING.
   The following additions will be made for the zoning classifications where
medical marijuana related activities are allowed within the municipal
boundaries of the town.
   (A)   Medical marijuana dispensary shall be a permitted use in all
commercial zoning districts.
   (B)   Medical marijuana processing, wholesale or storage facilities shall be
a permitted use in all industrial and agriculture zoning districts.
   (C)   Medical marijuana growing shall be a permitted use in any agricultural
zoning district and limited industrial zoning districts wherein growing
marijuana crops are no closer than 300 feet from any existing residence.
(Ord. 380, passed 2-13-2020)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to license revocation or suspension, a violation of any of
the provisions contained in §§
118.01 through
118.06 shall also be deemed an offense and punishable by a fine as set forth in
the
Appendix of Fines and Fees with respect to violations of §§
118.01 through
118.06 that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation
continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 380, passed 2-13-2020)
CHAPTER 119: RESTAURANTS AND FOOD VENDORS
Section
Mobile Food Vendors
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Business permitted
   
119.03   Application; vending license
   
119.04   Sales tax
   
119.05   Limitations
   
119.06   Exclusions
   
119.07   License fee; annual renewal
 
   
119.99   Penalty
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle used to sell food or beverages by
a mobile food vendor.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any person or business entity who dispenses food or
beverages from a food vending vehicle for immediate service and/or consumption.
(Ord. 385, passed - -2023)
§ 119.02 BUSINESS PERMITTED.
   No person or business entity may operate as a mobile food vendor in the town
without obtaining a mobile food vending license as required by this chapter and
any other licenses or permits required by state law.
(Ord. 385, passed - -2023) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.03 APPLICATION; VENDING LICENSE.
   (A)   Any applicant shall submit a written application on a form provided by
town for a mobile food vending license containing the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and contact information for applicant;
      (2)   Duration of license request (either daily or annual) and date(s) of
proposed operation;
      (3)   Vehicle(s) description and tag(s) number for mobile food vehicle;
      (4)   Location of proposed use;
      (5)   Nature of the food and/or beverages to be sold;
      (6)   Certification that the applicant has not been denied a license to
operate as a mobile food vendor in any community;
      (7)   Certification that the applicant has not previously had a mobile
food vending license revoked or suspended in any community;
      (8)   A copy of the applicant’s state sales tax permit;
      (9)   A copy of the applicant’s state health permit; and
      (10)   Any additional information required by the town.
   (B)   The town shall issue a mobile food vending license to the applicant
upon receipt of a complete application satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 385, passed - -2023)
§ 119.04 SALES TAX.
   All applicants licensed as a mobile food vendor shall collect the town’s
municipal sales tax on any sale of food or beverage within the municipality and
properly report and pay the same to the State Tax Commission as collected
within the town limits.
(Ord. 385, passed - -2023)
§ 119.05 LIMITATIONS.
   Any applicant licensed as a mobile food vendor shall not:
   (A)   Park a mobile food vehicle on private property without permission;
   (B)   Park a mobile food vehicle within a residential neighborhood;
   (C)   Park a mobile food vehicle within 100 feet of any public or private
school except when authorized in writing by such school;
   (D)   Park a mobile food vehicle within 100 feet of an existing restaurant,
café or other eating establishment; or
   (E)   Park a mobile food vehicle within 100 feet of a special event staged
on public property unless licensee has been pre-approved by the Town
Administrator.
(Ord. 385, passed - -2023) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.06 EXCLUSIONS.
   Certain mobile food vendors shall be exempt from this chapter and the
obligation to obtain a mobile food vending license as follows.
   (A)   Any mobile food vendor located and operating on private property owned
by the same mobile food vendor shall be exempt.
   (B)   Any mobile food vendor located and operating on property within 200
feet of a commercial kitchen, or any restaurant, café or other eating
establishment owned by the same mobile food vendor shall be exempt.
(Ord. 385, passed - -2023)
§ 119.07 LICENSE FEE; ANNUAL RENEWAL.
   Prior to receiving a mobile food vending license, each mobile food vendor
shall pay a daily fee for each day of operation, or an annual fee for each year
of operation, as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees. All annual fees
shall be renewed after the first and subsequent years of operation.
(Ord. 385, passed - -2023) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity who violates any provisions of this chapter or who
files a false application as required herein, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding the amount set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees. Each day that a violation of this chapter continues
shall be considered a separate offense, and such violation may be charged and
conviction had for each day that such violation continues or is allowed to
continue.
(Ord. 385, passed - -2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST DECENCY, MORALITY AND PUBLIC POLICY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
      
135.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Penal Code adopted
   
130.02   Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act adopted
   
130.03   Attempt to commit offense
   
130.04   Aiding in offense
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PENAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The penal code of the state as set forth in 21 O.S., as amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully and to the same extent as if
set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1)
§ 130.02 UNIFORM CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES ACT ADOPTED.
   The penal provisions of the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act of
the state as set forth in 63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq., as amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully and to the same extent as if
set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2)
§ 130.03 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 AIDING IN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
including
Chapters 131 through
135, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction may be punished as
set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day’s continuation of any such violation
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-5)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST DECENCY, MORALITY AND PUBLIC POLICY
Section
   
131.01   Vagrants
   
131.02   Curfew
   
131.03   Loitering prohibited
   
131.04   Drinking in public
§ 131.01 VAGRANTS.
   (A)   Defined. The following persons are VAGRANTS within the meaning of this
section:
      (1)   Idle persons. An idle person who lives without any means, or who
has no visible means of support and makes no exertion to obtain a livelihood by
honest employment;
      (2)   No habitation or business. Any person who strolls or loiters idly
about the streets of the town, having no local habitation and no honest
business or employment;
      (3)   Fortune telling; tricks. Any person who strolls about to tell
fortunes or to exhibit tricks not licensed in accordance with law or ordinance;
      (4)   Prostitute; houses of ill fame. Any prostitute, any manager or
controller of a house of prostitution or ill fame, or anyone employed therein
as a barkeeper, caller of figures for dances or habitual frequenter thereof;
      (5)   Gamblers. Any professional gambler or gambler commonly known as a
tinhorn gambler, card player, or card sharp;
      (6)   Beggars. Any person who goes about to beg alms, who is not
afflicted or disabled by a physical malady or misfortune;
      (7)   Drunkards. Any habitual drunkard; and
      (8)   Failure to support family. Any person who abandons or neglects or
refuses to support his or her family.
   (B)   Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to be a vagrant, and any
person who is a vagrant shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-6A-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   Being 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   Being 12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      (2)   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not
limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      (3)   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      (4)   GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      (5)   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      (6)   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
      (7)   PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      (8)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group
of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways
and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      (9)   REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      (10)   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial
risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the town during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during
curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a exemption to division (B) that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) that the
owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) is
present.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon any public or quasi- public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms or other bodily
gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a specific
intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division unless
the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain his or
her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division if it
appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not) and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   37 O.S. § 37A-6-101, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully and to the same extent as if set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-6A-6)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Carrying weapons
   
132.02   Firearms, air rifles and BB guns
   
132.03   Disturbing the peace of others
   
132.04   Disturbing the peace
   
132.05   Loud noise or music
   
132.06   Displaying insulting signs
   
132.07   Literature or language ridiculing deity
§ 132.01 CARRYING WEAPONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry upon or about his or her person,
either concealed or not concealed, any pistol, revolver, bowie knife, dirk,
dagger, metal knuckle or other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument, except
when doing so in line of duty or as may be permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-6B-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 FIREARMS, AIR RIFLES AND BB GUNS.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm except when doing so in
line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of another person,
or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law or ordinance. It is
unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun. This section shall not apply
outside the platted area of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-6B-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE OF OTHERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of another or others by
violent, obstreperous or improper conduct or carriage, by loud or unusual
noise, or by unseemly, obscene, offensive or abusive language; or to insult
another or others by such conduct or language.
(Prior Code, § 5-6B-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.04 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   [Reserved]
(Prior Code, § 5-6B-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.05 LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to disturb the peace and
quietude of any part of the town by operating, having operated, or permitting
to be operated, any contrivance, whether electric or not, with or without a
loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music, noise or words.
(Prior Code, § 5-6B-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.06 DISPLAYING INSULTING SIGNS.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to display
any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common acceptance is
insulting, profane or abusive to the citizens of the town, and which is
calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 5-6B-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.07 LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE RIDICULING DEITY.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to circulate any literature or
use any language which casts profane ridicule on any deity, which in its common
acceptance is calculated to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 5-6B-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
133.01   Injuring buildings and other property
   
133.02   Placing signs on property of another
   
133.03   Throwing or shooting at persons or property
   
133.04   Tampering with public utilities
   
133.05   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
133.06   Unlawful entrance
§ 133.01 INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use.
(Prior Code, § 5-6C-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill, placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building,
fence, sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle, or other
property of another, without the consent of the owner, or person in charge
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-6C-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he or she is
likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light, or other property of another (whether public or private),
except in cases where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person, or
of property.
(Prior Code, § 5-6C-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.04 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly or
privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him or her to consume or use
gas, water or electricity without it passing through the meter, or in any other
way so as to evade payment thereof. It is also unlawful for any person to
damage, molest, tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or other
part of any public utility, including telegraph and telephone systems.
(Prior Code, § 5-6C-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Uncollected garbage and trash; nuisance, see §
50.08
§ 133.05 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or piece of land without
license or authority from the owner or person in charge thereof, or who erects
or occupies thereon any hut, hovel, shanty, or other structure without such
license or authority, and every person who places, erects, or occupies within
the bounds of any street, alley or avenue any hut, hovel, shanty, fence, post,
installation, or other structure whatever, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5-6C-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.06 UNLAWFUL ENTRANCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to enter upon the property of another or into
an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area, or
structure is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by
signs or otherwise or when the property, area, or structure is enclosed, except
when such entrance is in the line of duty, or with the expressed or tacit
consent of the owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-6C-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
134.01   Refusing or failing to assist officer
   
134.02   Resisting officer
   
134.03   Prisoners
   
134.04   Personating officer or employee
   
134.05   False fire alarms
   
134.06   False representation to officer
   
134.07   Removal of barricades
§ 134.01 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   (A)   Request for assistance. An officer making or about to make an arrest,
or executing or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with
ordinance or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to suppress a
riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon a person or persons to assist
him or her in making such arrest, executing such process, or suppressing such
riot, affray, or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   Failure to comply. It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon
thus to assist an officer to refuse or fail to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-6D-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 RESISTING OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully: to resist, oppose or
obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police officer, or any other officer or
employee of the town in the discharge of his or her official duties; or, by
threats or otherwise, to intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such officer
or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or, to assault or
beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or indecent language
toward or about any such officer or employee while such officer or employee is
in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-6D-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 PRISONERS.
   (A)   Rescuing. It is unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner, to
set at liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty or rescue any prisoner or
prisoners, from any officer or employee of the town having legal custody of the
same or from jail or other place of confinement by the town, or to assist such
prisoner in any manner to escape from any such jail, prison, or custody.
   (B)   Escape. It is unlawful for any person confined in jail or other place
of confinement by the town, or working upon the streets or other public places
in pursuance of any judgment or otherwise held in legal custody by authority of
the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail, prison or custody.
(Prior Code, § 5-6D-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.04 PERSONATING OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It is unlawful for any person to personate an officer or employee of the
town, falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee
thereof, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or
powers of an officer or employee of the town without being duly authorized to
do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-6D-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.05 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false fire alarm, or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or any officer or
employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, or
knowingly to cause the Fire Department or its officers or employees to make a
useless run.
(Prior Code, § 5-6D-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.06 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the town government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-6D-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.07 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(Prior Code, § 5-6D-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Danger signals, see §
151.25
CHAPTER 135: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
135.01   Fireworks
   
135.02   Burning trash
   
135.03   Scavenging garbage
   
135.04   Sales on vacant property
   
135.05   Throwing advertising on street
   
135.06   Expectorating on street
   
135.07   Abandoned refrigerators
   
135.08   Engine compression
§ 135.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The manufacture, sale, possession, display for sale, use or discharge
of fireworks shall be unlawful within this town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this code to the contrary, school,
nonprofit and civic organizations may sell fireworks to earn money for
charitable purposes.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section to the contrary, this
code is inapplicable to public agencies, nonprofit and civic organizations
engaged in a public display of fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 5-6E-1) (Ord. 314, passed 6-23-2005; Ord. 326, passed 6-26-2008;
Ord. 362, passed 8-11-2016) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.02 BURNING TRASH.
   The burning of paper, trash, leaves, garbage and refuse of any nature
whatsoever is hereby prohibited within the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-6E-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Individual disposal or burning, see §
50.07
§ 135.03 SCAVENGING GARBAGE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Putrescible, animal and vegetable wastes, resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      POSTED. Exhibiting a sign on the container, or in a conspicuous place,
reading as follows: “Posted - Keep Out of Container”; or a similar sign.
      TRASH. Extends to the widest sense of the term, and includes, but without
limitation upon any other meaning, refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris,
paper, combustible materials, offal, rubbish, waste and useless or uncared for
matter of all kinds, whether solid or liquid in form.
   (B)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, take,
appropriate, rummage or scavenge through garbage or trash from another
person’s, or the town’s, trash containers, including plastic bags, whether the
container is furnished by the town or by the individual, without the permission
of the town or such other person, when such container is posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-6E-3) (Ord. 284, passed 2-8-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.04 SALES ON VACANT PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, including a civic or
religious organization, to sell, barter, trade or transfer any merchandise,
wearing apparel or other personal property of any kind on or in any vacant
property in the town without the consent of the owner or person in control of
said property.
(Prior Code, § 5-6E-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.05 THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
area, any handbill, circular or other advertising matter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6E-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.06 EXPECTORATING ON STREET.
   Any person expectorating on the streets, sidewalks, doorways or stairways
within the town limits of the town shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-6E-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.07 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave in a place
accessible to children any abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other
container of a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more, which has an
airtight door with a lock or other fastening device which cannot be easily
released for opening from the inside of the icebox, refrigerator or container,
without first removing the door, lock or fastener.
(Prior Code, § 5-6E-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.08 ENGINE COMPRESSION.
   (A)   Prohibited. The driver of any vehicle, including, but not limited to,
motor carriers, trucks, semitrailers and tractor trailers, shall not cause
their vehicle to brake or slow by any method which increases the noise emission
levels of the engine, including, but not limited to, the method commonly known
as jake braking wherein engine compression is used to slow the vehicle in lieu
of applying the clutch or brakes.
   (B)   Violation. Violation of this section shall be a violation of the
traffic regulations of the town and fines and penalties for violations shall be
set in the same manner as those for traffic regulations.
(Prior Code, § 5-6E-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
      
154.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code and Regulations
   
150.001   Building Code adopted
   
150.002   Additions, insertions and changes to the Code
   
150.003   Building official
   
150.004   Building permit required; fee
   
150.005   Fencing of landscaping obstruction of view
Plumbing Code
   
150.020   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.021   Additions, insertions and changes to the Plumbing Code
   
150.022   Plumbing inspector
   
150.023   Plumbing permit required; fee
   
150.024   Registration required; fee
   
150.025   Bond required
   
150.026   Minor repairs
   
150.027   Board of Appeal; member qualifications
   
150.028   Septic tank regulations
   
150.029   Public system available
   
150.030   Water service pipes
   
150.031   Materials
   
150.032   Joints under slabs
   
150.033   Certain values and preventers prohibited
   
150.034   Interceptors; capacity; maintenance
   
150.035   Inspections
Electrical Code
   
150.050   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.051   Compliance with Electrical Code
   
150.052   Electrical equipment defined
   
150.053   Conformance with regulations and standards
   
150.054   Administration
   
150.055   Repairs
   
150.056   License required; fees
   
150.057   Service facilities and installations
   
150.058   Town authority; special rulings
   
150.059   Installations; permits requirements; fees
   
150.060   Utility connection; permit required
   
150.061   Inspection of electrical installations
   
150.062   Right of entry for inspector
   
150.063   Responsibility for damages
   
150.064   Temporary services; certificate
   
150.065   Installation approval before concealing work
   
150.066   Roughed in work
   
150.067   Specific requirements and standards
Mechanical Code
   
150.080   Mechanical Code adopted
   
150.081   Additions, insertions and changes to Mechanical Code
   
150.082   License required; fees
   
150.083   Bond required
   
150.084   Inspections
   
150.085   Mechanical inspector
   
150.086   Permit required; fees
   
150.087   Minor repairs
   
150.088   Board of Appeals; member qualifications
   
150.089   Incinerators
Fuel Gas Code
   
150.100   Fuel Gas Code adopted
   
150.101   Additions, insertions and changes to Fuel Gas Code
   
150.102   Permit required; fees
   
150.103   Registration required; fees
   
150.104   Bond required
   
150.105   Minor repairs
   
150.106   Board of Appeals; member qualifications
Certificates of Occupancy
   
150.120   Certificates of occupancy required; application fee
   
150.121   New buildings
   
150.122   Contents of certificate
   
150.123   Temporary occupancy
   
150.124   Change of occupancy
   
150.125   Withholding certificate
   
150.126   Exemptions
Moving Buildings
   
150.140   License required; fees
   
150.141   Bond required
   
150.142   Permit required; fee
   
150.143   Inspection
   
150.144   Town limits
   
150.145   Height regulations
   
150.146   Floor area restrictions
   
150.147   Public safety requirements
   
150.148   Conduct of moving
   
150.149   Poles and wires
   
150.150   Trees and fixtures
   
150.151   Railway tracks
   
150.152   Exceptions
Factory-Built Structures and Travel Trailers
   
150.165   Definitions
   
150.166   Permitted placement of homes
   
150.167   Nonresidential factory-built structures prohibited
   
150.168   Notice for violations to licensee
   
150.169   Factory-built home requirements
   
150.170   Inspections
   
150.171   Inspection of outside premises
   
150.172   Occupant to give access
   
150.173   Notice of health and safety violations
   
150.174   Request for hearing
   
150.175   Inspection findings
   
150.176   Appeals
   
150.177   Emergency action without notice
Oil and Gas Drilling
   
150.190   Intent and purpose
   
150.191   Definitions
   
150.192   Oil and gas inspector
   
150.193   Permit required; annual inspection fee
   
150.194   Application for permit; filing fee
   
150.195   Issuance or refusal of permit
   
150.196   Board of Review; consent of adjacent property owners
   
150.197   Insurance and bond
   
150.198   Seismic exploration; approval fee
   
150.199   Compliance with applicable laws
   
150.200   Applicability to existing conditions
   
150.201   Forms filed with State Corporation Commission
   
150.202   Informal complaints
   
150.203   Service companies
   
150.204   Conduits on streets and alleys
   
150.205   Accumulation of vapor
   
150.206   Inspection of pressure lines
   
150.207   Enhanced recovery, deleterious substances disposal wells
   
150.208   Disposal of saltwater
   
150.209   Surface casing
   
150.210   Abandoned wells, plugging
   
150.211   Well location
   
150.212   Fences
   
150.213   Noise and other nuisances
   
150.214   Maintenance of facilities
   
150.215   Storage tanks and separators
   
150.216   Fire prevention
   
150.217   Pits
   
150.218   Retaining walls
   
150.219   Motive power
   
150.220   Derrick and rig
   
150.221   Drilling operation, equipment
   
150.222   Moving of drilling rig
   
150.223   Streets and alleys
   
150.224   Flaring of gas
   
150.225   Fracture and acidizing
   
150.226   Swabbing and bailing
   
150.227   Rupture in surface casing
   
150.228   Depositing oil products
   
150.229   Safety precautions
   
150.230   Water for muds
   
150.231   Ingress and egress
   
150.232   Movement of heavy equipment
   
150.233   Purchase of well sites by town
   
150.234   Order to cease operations
   
150.235   Appeals
Supplemental Building Regulations
   
150.250   Residential construction; additional requirements
   
150.251   Smoke detection devices
   
150.252   Canopies and awnings; permit required; fee
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.001 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolishing, equipping,
using and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and structures,
including permits and penalties, those certain building codes known as:
      (1)   The International Building Code, the latest editions adopted by the
state and its amendments, as published by the International Code Council,
hereinafter referred to as “Building Code”; and
      (2)   The NFPA 101: Life Safety Code, hereinafter referred to as “Safety
Code”, published by the National Fire Protection Association, being
particularly the latest edition, and all amendments thereof.
   (B)   Save and except the portions of each as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or amended, of which no less than one copy of each have been and now
are filed in the office of the Town Clerk, the Building Code and the Life
Safety Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein.
   (C)   From the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions
of the Building Code and the Life Safety Code as herein modified shall be
controlling in the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use and occupancy, location and maintenance of all buildings and structures
within the corporate limits of the town. As the Building Code are subsequently
amended or modified, the changes shall be incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.002 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO THE CODE.
   (A)   Insertions and deletions. The following insertions and deletions are
made to the Building Code:
      (1)   The words “the Town of Hennessey, Oklahoma” are inserted in the
second line of Section 101.1;
      (2)   The words “The permit fees for performing the activity described in
this chapter shall be set periodically by the Board of Trustees of the Town of
Hennessey, Oklahoma, by duly adopted resolution, and the fees may be amended by
resolution of the Town Board of Trustees.” are inserted into Section 109.2;
      (3)   The words “the Town of Hennessey, Oklahoma, Kingfisher County,
Oklahoma” are inserted in the second line of Section 1612.3;
      (4)   Chapter 34 has been deleted and is replaced by the International
Existing Building Code;
      (5)   Section 101.4.6 pertaining to the provisions of the International
Energy Conservation Code are deleted;
      (6)   Section 110 of the Building Code is amended to include:
“It shall be the duty of the owner, contractor or permittee to inquire with the
Town Inspector as to the times or stages that inspection shall be required and
advise the Town Clerk when the owner, contractor or permittee is ready for
inspection.”
      (7)   Section 105.3 of the Building Code is amended to include:
“No person, firm or corporation shall operate a place of business or engage in
the business of contracting to do construction, repairing, remodeling or
altering of buildings or structures within the town without first obtaining a
building contractor’s license and paying the tax thereon, as required.”
      (8)   Section 105.2.2 of the Building Code is amended to include:
“Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the owner and occupant of a
single-family residential dwelling performing alterations or modifications to
the existing dwelling shall be considered ordinary repairs; provided that
ordinary repairs shall not include any exterior additions to the existing
dwelling. Ordinary repairs shall not include the cutting away of any structural
beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any required means of
egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the exit
requirements; nor shall ordinary repairs include addition to, alteration of,
replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer, drainage,
drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring or
mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.”
      (9)   Section 113.3 of the Building Code is deleted, and the following is
substituted therefor: The membership of the Board of Appeals created herein
shall consist of the duly appointed members of the Town of Hennessey Board of
Adjustment.
      (10)   The following design criteria are inserted into Table R301.2 (1)
of the International Residential Code (adopted by reference in Section 101.2 of
the International Building Code):
Column 1  Ground Snow Load:                  10 psf
Column 2  Wind Speed:                        90 mph
Column 3  Seismic Design Category:           C
Column 4  Weathering:                        Moderate
Column 5  Frost Depth Line:                  18 inches
Column 6  Termite:                           Yes
Column 7  Winter Design Temperature:         13 Deg F
Column 8  Ice Barrier Underlayment Required: No
Column 9  Flood Hazards:                     FIRM dated December 18, 2009
Column 10 Air Freezing Index:                333
Column 11 Mean Annual Temperature:           61.0 Deg F
 
      (11)   Section 3201 of the Building Code is amended to include:
         (a)   No permanent structure shall be located, constructed, placed or
erected on a public easement or right-of-way; provided, portable buildings on
skids or platforms, fences, driveways and other structures not permanently
affixed to the ground shall not be prohibited by this section. For purposes of
this section, “public easement or right-of-way” means any easement or right-of-
way dedicated to the public for any purpose, whether recorded or not,
“permanent structure” means anything which requires location on the ground, or
which is attached to something having location on the ground.
         (b)   Non-permanent accessory buildings not exceeding 240 square feet
in size and encroaching on a public easement or right-of-way as provided in
division (a) above shall be constructed on skids or platforms allowing the
entire structure to be moved by connecting a towing or winching device to the
platform or skids.
         (c)   All accessory buildings in excess of 240 square feet in size
shall be considered permanent structures and shall be located on a permanent
footing. These accessory buildings shall not be located over utility easements
or rights-of-way.
         (d)   No building permanent, portable or non-permanent shall be
located over any gas line, any publicly owned stormwater, water, wastewater or
underground electric transmission line.
         (e)   Non-permanent, portable buildings may be located in the side
yard setback, but no part of the building including any roof overhang shall
extend beyond the property line of the property on which the building is
located.
      (12)   The words “thirty” and “twenty-four” are inserted in the third and
fifth lines respectively of Section 2603.5.1 of the International Residential
Code (adopted by reference in Section 101.4 of the International Building
Code).
      (13)   Amendments to Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings
and Townhouses: the provisions of the International Residential Building Code
for One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Townhouses is hereby amended and modified
as approved by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission.
   (B)   Safety code; control. Section 102.4 of the Building Code is amended to
include:
“Whenever any of the provisions of the Safety Code are in conflict with or are
more restrictive than provisions of the Building Code, the Safety Code shall
control where referenced by the Building Code.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.003 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Generally. The building official shall have the powers and duties
prescribed for the “building official” by the town’s Building Code; provided,
that his or her powers and duties may be exercised by his or her authorized
representatives under his or her supervision and control. The term “building
inspector”, whenever used in the ordinances of the town, means the building
official. The terms “electrical inspector”, “plumbing inspector” and “gas
inspector”; whenever used in the ordinances of the town, also each refer to and
mean the building official, unless a separate electrical inspector, plumbing
inspector or gas inspector is appointed.
   (B)   Appointment; supervision. The building official of the town shall be
appointed by the Town Administrator and shall have the powers and duties
prescribed for the “building official” by the Building Code. The building
official shall be under the supervision and direction of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Authorized representatives. The building official’s powers and duties
may be exercised by his or her authorized representatives under his or her
supervision and control.
   (D)   Duties.
      (1)   The building official shall receive applications required by this
code, issue permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. He or she may
examine premises for which permits have been issued and make necessary
inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied with, and that
construction is prosecuted safely.
      (2)   The building official shall have the power to enforce all
provisions of the Building Code. He or she shall, when requested by proper
authority or when the public interest so requires, make investigations in
connection with matters referred to in the Building Code, and render written
report on the same, to enforce the compliance with the law, to remove the
illegal or unsafe conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during
construction, or to require adequate facilities in building and structures. He
or she shall issue such notices or orders that may be necessary.
      (3)   Inspections required in the provisions of the Building Code shall
be made by the building official. The building official may accept reports of
recognized inspection services or personnel after investigation of the
qualifications and the liability. No certificate called for by any provisions
of the Building Code shall be issued on such reports unless same are in writing
and certified by a responsible officer of such service.
      (4)   The building official shall keep comprehensive records of
applications for permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made,
of reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued. He or she shall retain on
file copies of required plans and all documents relating to building work so
long as any part of the building or structure to which they relate may be in
existence.
      (5)   The building official shall make written reports to the Board of
Trustees as requested, including statements of permits and certificates issued
and orders promulgated.
      (6)   In the discharge of his or her official duties and upon proper
identification, the building official may enter any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour.
      (7)   Assess fines and issue citations for Building Code violations as
determined by the town’s fine schedule and as herein provided. Citations will
be issued by the building official and/or inspector using the same ticket books
used by the town for its law enforcement.
   (E)   Cooperation of other officials. The building official may request and
shall receive, so far as may be necessary in the discharge of his or her
duties, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the town. The Town
Clerk, in addition to all other duties as elsewhere provided in the town code
for the Town Clerk, shall assist the building official by issuing building
permits as requested and directed by the building official.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.004 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Permit required. No building or other structure shall be built,
enlarged, altered or moved without a building permit, all as required by the
town’s Building Code.
   (B)   Application for permit.
      (1)   A person desiring a building permit shall submit an application
therefor to the building official.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit with the application such reasonable
information as may be required to enable the building official to determine
whether granting the permit would be in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances of the town and applicable laws.
   (C)   Issuance of permit; payment of fee.
      (1)    If the application is in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances and laws, the building official shall issue the permit upon the
payment by the applicant of a building permit fee.
      (2)   The fee shall be set by a resolution of the Board of Trustees. A
current copy of the fee schedule shall be kept in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (D)   Rejection of permit; appeal. If a permit is rejected by the building
official, the applicant may appeal to the Board of Trustees. The official’s
decision may be reconsidered by the Board.
   (E)   Scope of permit. A building permit covers the initial plumbing and
electrical installations to be made in connection with the building.
   (F)   Manner of determining fee; size of structure. For noncommercial
storage buildings being those not attached to town owned utilities, those not
used for commercial purposes and not attached to other structures with square
footage of 120 square feet and under, there shall be no fee; for those
structures more than 120 square feet, a fee shall be charged as set by the Town
Board.
   (G)   State permit fees required. In accordance with the Uniform Building
Code Commission Act and the rules and regulations of the Oklahoma Uniform
Building Commission (OUBC), a fee is required to be collected on behalf of the
state for each construction or building permit issued by the town.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.005 FENCING OF LANDSCAPING OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, establish,
plant or permit to remain any fence, hedge or other construction or matter so
as to obstruct the vision of any street intersection in the town.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.020 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the design, installations, alteration and inspection of
plumbing systems in buildings and structures, including permits and penalties,
that certain plumbing code known as the International Plumbing Code,
hereinafter called “Plumbing Code”, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., being particularly the latest editions adopted by the state and
its amendments and all amendments thereof, save and except the portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which no less than one copy has
been and now is filed in the office of the Town Clerk. The same is hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   From the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions
of the code as herein modified shall be controlling in the design,
installation, maintenance, alteration and inspection of plumbing systems in
buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the town connected to
any water or sewer system owned or operated by the town inside or outside its
corporate limits. As the Plumbing Code is subsequently amended or modified, the
changes shall be incorporated by reference.
   (C)   Violation: any violation of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
deemed a violation of the ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.021 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO THE PLUMBING CODE.
   The following insertions and deletions are made to the Plumbing Code:
   (A)   The words “the Town of Hennessey, Oklahoma,” are inserted in the
second line of Section 101.1;
   (B)   The words “zero” and “zero” are inserted in the fifth and eighth lines
of Section 106.6.3;
   (C)   The words “The permit fees for performing the activity described in
this chapter shall be set periodically by the Town Board of Trustees for the
Town of Hennessey, Oklahoma, by duly adopted resolution, and the fees may be
amended by resolution of the Town of Hennessey Town Board of Trustees” are
inserted in the third line of section 106.6.2;
   (D)   The words “offense” and “$500” are inserted in the seventh and eighth
lines respectively of Section 108.4 and all references to imprisonment in the
section are deleted;
   (E)   The words “$100” and “$500” are inserted in the thirteenth and
fourteenth lines respectively of Section 108.5;
   (F)   The words “thirty” and “twenty-four” are inserted in the second and
fifth lines respectively of Section 305.6.1; and
   (G)   The word “twelve” is inserted in the second line of Section 903.1.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.022 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The office of inspector of plumbing is hereby created and shall be the
building official unless some other person is appointed by the Town Board. He
or she may carry out the performance of this chapter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.023 PLUMBING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Permit required. No plumbing work shall be undertaken within the town
without a permit therefor from the plumbing inspector.
   (B)   Fees. The fees to be paid for a plumbing permit shall be as set by the
Town Board by motion or resolution.
   (C)   Application for permit. The application for permit and inspection of
work shall follow the provisions of the town’s Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.024 REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Amendment. Section 106.4 of the Plumbing Code is amended to include:
“No person, firm or corporation shall be issued a plumbing permit, operate a
place of business or engage in the business of contracting, to do installation,
maintenance or alteration of plumbing systems or equipment within the town,
unless the person or the agent or employee performing plumbing work for the
firm or corporation first obtains a license and pays the tax thereon.
      (1)   The applicant for a plumbing license must show and maintain a
license issued by the Oklahoma Construction Industries Board 158:30-1-
3 pursuant to the Plumbing Licensing Act.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply to a maintenance plumber
in the employ of the owner of the building or buildings in which the plumbing
work is to be performed.
      (3)   The provision of this section shall not apply to:
         (a)   Apprentices or helpers in plumbing work who, at all times while
working, are under the direct supervision of another having a license from the
town; and
         (b)   The owner and occupant of a single-family residential dwelling
performing necessary repairs, additions or alterations to plumbing to each
dwelling, excluding any work on connections to meters or mains or work within a
public easement or right-of-way.”
   (B)   Fees. Any person, firm or corporation, before installation, alter or
repair plumbing or being a plumbing contractor or journeyman or apprentice
shall pay to the Town Clerk a registration fee in such sum as set by the Town
Board of Trustees by resolution.
   (C)   Issuance; annual certificate. The town shall issue certificates for
such registration which shall expire annually on June 30.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.025 BOND REQUIRED.
   All plumbing contractors shall, prior to the commencement of any plumbing
work, furnish a current state plumbing license as a bond guarantee and
condition that:
   (A)   The installation of plumbing shall be in accordance with the
requirements of this code;
   (B)   The contractor shall, without additional cost to the person for whom
the work has been done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused by
incompetent workers, inferior or nonstandard material; and
   (C)   Such bond as is furnished shall be liable for the correction or any
additional cost arising from the above-mentioned cause.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.026 MINOR REPAIRS.
   (A)   Minor repairs described.
      (1)   Section 106.2 of the Plumbing Code is amended to include:
“Plumbing work shall not be commenced until a permit for the work has been
issued by the Town Inspector. A permit shall not be required for making minor
repairs in existing plumbing within any building. The making of minor repairs
shall consist of repairing or replacing parts of water systems or the replacing
or repairing of all trimmings or parts of water fixtures. The making of minor
repairs shall not be construed to mean replacement of complete water systems,
making connections to the sewer or water supply mains, nor the replacement or
repair of water heaters.”
   (B)   Exceptions. The making of minor repairs shall not be construed to mean
replacing of complete water systems or distribution systems nor the making of
connections with sewer mains, water supply mains or gas supply mains; nor the
replacement or repair of water tanks or water heaters or parts thereof; nor
shall this section be construed to permit master plumbers to make minor repairs
by or through anyone except licensed journeymen plumbers.
   (C)   Connections not requiring permit. A permit will not be required for
setting or connecting gas appliances in the same room where connection is made
to an opening placed by a licensed plumber or a licensed gas fitter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.027 BOARD OF APPEAL; MEMBER QUALIFICATIONS.
   Section 109.2 of the Plumbing Code is deleted, and the following is
substituted therefor:
“The members of the Board of Appeals shall consist of the duly appointed
members of the Town of Hennessey Board of Adjustment.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.028 SEPTIC TANK REGULATIONS.
   Section 701.2 of the Plumbing Code is amended to include:
“Whenever an individual sewage disposal system is permitted in this code, the
design, installation, maintenance and replacement of the system shall be
controlled by the standards and regulations of the Oklahoma Department of
Environmental Quality.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.029 PUBLIC SYSTEM AVAILABLE.
   Section 608.1 and 701.2 of the Plumbing Code is amended to include:
“The availability of a public water or sewer system shall be governed by the
policies set forth in Chapter 154 of the Town of Hennessey Code of Ordinances.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.030 WATER SERVICE PIPES.
   Section 605.3 of the Plumbing Code is amended to include:
   “All water service piping shall terminate no less than 18 inches outside the
building.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.031 MATERIALS.
   (A)   Table 605.3 of the Plumbing Code is amended to delete:
      (1)   Galvanized steel pipe.
   (B)   Table 605.4 of the Plumbing Code is amended to delete:
      (1)   Galvanized steel pipe.
   (C)   Table 702.3 of the Plumbing Code is amended to delete:
      (1)   Concrete pipe.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.032 JOINTS UNDER SLABS.
   Section 605 of the Plumbing Code is amended to include:
“No joints shall be made in water piping under slabs.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.033 CERTAIN VALUES AND PREVENTERS PROHIBITED.
   Section 504 of the Plumbing Code is amended to include:
“Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this code, no check valve or backflow
preventer shall be installed on the cold-water supply side of hot water tanks
or boilers.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.034 INTERCEPTORS; CAPACITY; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Generally. Grease, oil and sand traps or interceptors shall be
provided for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing pollutants in
excessive amounts, flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except
that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwellings. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
manager and shall be located as to be readily and easily assessable for
cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials, capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and
equipped with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be
gas-tight and water-tight. All installed grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be maintained in continuously efficient operation by the owner at the
owner’s expense. The use of hot water, enzymes, chemicals, other agents or
devices for the purpose of causing the oil, grease or sand to pass through the
interceptor and/or the facility provided is prohibited. Materials removed from
these facilities shall be either utilized by the industrial user or disposed of
at designated approved location
   (B)   Capacity. Grease interceptors shall have the grease retention capacity
indicated in the Plumbing Code.
   (C)   Maintenance. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
      (1)   Grease interceptors shall be pumped and cleaned at a frequency
sufficient to maintain compliance with the requirements of this chapter. At a
minimum, a grease interceptor shall be cleaned and pumped whenever the combined
thickness of the floating greases and settled solids is equal to or greater
than 25% of the content of the interceptor. If repairs are required, they shall
be performed within seven days.
      (2)   When required by the Public Works Director, grease interceptors
shall be pumped and cleaned within 48 hours. When in the opinion of the Town
Administrator the environment is threatened, the Town Administrator may require
a facility to immediately cease operations until the facility’s grease
interceptor is cleaned and pumped.
      (3)   Grease interceptors shall have monitoring locations adequate for
obtaining representative effluent samples. Users shall document all cleaning
and maintenance activities performed on their grease interceptors. Copies of
grease hauling and handling manifests shall be maintained on site. These
records shall be maintained for a minimum of three years and be available for
inspection and copying by the Town Administrator or designee.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.035 INSPECTIONS.
   Section 107.1 of the Plumbing Code is amended to include:
“It shall be the duty of the owner, contractor or permittee to inquire with the
town inspector as to the times or stages that inspection shall be required and
advise the inspector and Public Works Department when the owner, contractor or
permittee is ready for inspection.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.050 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for all electrical wiring, electrical equipment, machinery and
apparatus operated by electricity, including permits and penalties, that
certain electrical code known as NFPA 70: National Electrical Code, hereinafter
referred to as “Electric Code”, recommended by the National Fire Protection
Association, being particularly the edition referenced by the Building Code and
all amendments thereof, save and except the portions as are hereinafter
deleted, modified or amended, of which no less than one copy has been and now
is filed in the office of the Town Clerk. The same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   From the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions
of the code, as herein modified, shall be controlling in electrical wiring,
electrical equipment and machinery and apparatus operated by electricity within
the corporate limits of the town. As the Electric Code is subsequently amended
or modified, the changes shall be incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.051 COMPLIANCE WITH ELECTRICAL CODE.
   Compliance with state and local regulations:
   (A)   All installations of electrical equipment shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, with the statutes of the state and any orders,
rules and regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons and property; and
   (B)   Where no specific standards are prescribed by this chapter or by the
statutes of the state or by any orders, rules, or regulations issued by
authority thereof, conformity with the regulations set forth in the current
issue of the national electrical code, as approved by the American Insurance
Association, shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved
standards for safety to persons or to property.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.052 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DEFINED.
   The term ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT used in this chapter refers to electrical
conductors, metallic raceways, fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances,
apparatus and any electrical material of any nature, kind or description, to be
installed within or on any building or structure.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.053 CONFORMANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS.
   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, the statutes of the state and any orders, rules and
regulations issued by the authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons or to property. Unless by this chapter, by a
statute of the state or any orders, rules, or regulations issued by authority
thereof, a specific type or class of electrical equipment is disapproved for
installation and use, conformity with the standards of Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc., shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved
standards for safety to persons or to property.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.054 ADMINISTRATION.
   Section 90.4 of the Electric Code is amended to include:
“The Inspector shall enforce this chapter in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 1 of the Building Code, as amended, adopted herein and a Board of
Appeals as provided for in this code shall consist of the duly appointed
members of the Town of Hennessey Board of Adjustment.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.055 REPAIRS.
   Section 90.4 of the Electric Code is amended to include:
“Permits shall not be necessary for maintenance work, minor repair work or
installation of portable electrical fixtures, if wiring is not altered or
rearranged.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.056 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   Section 90A of the Electric Code is amended to include:
“No person, firm or corporation shall be issued an electrical permit, operate a
place of business, or engage in the business of contracting to do installation,
repairing or altering of electric wiring or nonportable electric fixtures or
apparatus within the town unless the person or the agent or employee performing
electrical work for the firm or corporation first is registered with the town
and pays the tax thereon, as prescribed;”
   (A)   The applicant for electrical registration must hold a license issued
by the Oklahoma Construction Industries Board 158:40-1-3 pursuant to the
Electrical License Act, being O.S. §§ 1680 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to a maintenance
electrician in the employ of the owner of the building or buildings in which
the electrical work is to be performed.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply: the owner and occupant
of a single-family residential dwelling making necessary repairs, additions or
alterations to the electrical wiring of the dwelling.
   (D)   Registration required in this section shall be subject hereto. The
registration shall be renewed annually in accordance herewith and shall remain
in effect so long as the state license is current or until revoked by the town.
      (1)   Annual registration; fee. Any person, firm or corporation, before
engaging in the business of electrical work or being an electrical contractor,
journeyman electrician or apprentice, shall pay to the Town Clerk a
registration fee in such sum as set by the Town Board by motion or resolution.
The town shall issue certificates for such registration which shall expire
annually as specified in the certificate.
      (2)   Bond. All electrical contractors shall, prior to the commencement
of any electrical work, furnish a current Oklahoma state electrical license as
a bond guarantee and condition that:
         (a)   The installation of electrical work shall be in accordance with
the requirements of this code;
         (b)   The contractor shall, without additional cost to the person for
whom the work has been done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused by
incompetent workers, inferior or nonstandard material; and
         (c)   Such bond as is furnished shall be liable for the correction or
any additional cost arising from the above-mentioned cause.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.057 SERVICE FACILITIES AND INSTALLATIONS.
   Article 230 of the Electric Code is amended to include the following.
   (A)   All uses in the town shall have a minimum service of 100 amperes.
   (B)   No overhead service shall be permitted to or between public or private
school buildings.
   (C)   For voltages above 600 volts, the plans for service entrance and point
of delivery must be approves by the electric service company and the town
inspector before a permit is issued. All meters and related service equipment
furnished and installed by the electric service company shall be installed
subject to and in compliance with the following conditions:
      (1)   Indoor and outdoor meters shall be installed so that the top of the
meter will not be more than six feet six inches, nor less than five feet six
inches, above the floor or ground; and
      (2)   A meter board of soft lumber, and of suitable dimensions for
mounting the meter and cabinet, shall be provided as part of the rough-in job.
It shall be located near the service entrance on a wall or structure free of
excessive vibration and readily accessible at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.058 TOWN AUTHORITY; SPECIAL RULINGS.
   The Board of Trustees of the town, by motion or resolution, shall have the
authority to make special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the
safeguarding of life and property and the improvement of electrical
installations. In all cases persons engaged in the installing of electrical
equipment and holding an electrical license must be notified by letter of these
decisions.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.059 INSTALLATIONS; PERMITS REQUIREMENTS; FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to install any
electrical wiring, fixtures or apparatus in or on any building or structure in
the corporate limits of the town or make extensions to any existing electrical
installations without first securing a permit from the town.
   (B)   Application for permit. Applications for electrical permits shall be
made to the town. The applicant shall provide such plans, specifications and
other data as may be reasonably required.
   (C)   Permit fee. The permit fees for performing the activity described in
this chapter shall be set periodically by the Town Board of Trustees by duly
adopted resolution, and the fees may be amended by resolution of the Town Board
of Trustees.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.060 UTILITY CONNECTION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Authorization for connection. It is unlawful for any electric light or
power company, or any supplier of electricity or light, heat or power, to make
any electrical connection to any building or premises or electric wiring or
apparatus until a building permit or electrical permit or written permit
authorizing connection has been issued by the town.
   (B)   Notice by town for disconnection. All firms, corporations or
individuals, whether operating under a regular franchise granted by the town or
not, shall upon written notice by the town, disconnect from any such circuit,
including main service wires, branch feeder wires, or distribution, as
designated by the notice, and shall not reconnect to the installation except
upon written notice from the town.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.061 INSPECTION OF ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Duty of electrical inspector. It is the duty of the electrical
inspector to inspect all electrical equipment installed within the town.
   (B)   Issuance of certificate of inspection.
      (1)   On the completion of the work covered by a permit in accordance
with all ordinances and laws, and after inspection and approval by the
electrical inspector, the electrical inspector shall issue a certificate of
inspection.
      (2)   In this certificate, the electrical inspector shall certify that
the work is in accordance with the rules governing the respective class to
which it belongs, as specified by this chapter.
      (3)   This certificate shall be issued to the electric service company
and shall be their authority to supply electric service to the premises.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.062 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Authority of inspector. The electrical inspector, while in the
discharge of his or her official duty, shall have the authority to enter any
building or premises at any reasonable hour, for the purpose of making any
electrical inspection, re-inspection or test of the electrical equipment
contained therein or its installation.
   (B)   Interference with inspector. Any person interfering with the
electrical inspector shall be punished as provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.063 RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to affect the responsibility or
liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or installing any
electrical equipment for damages to persons or to property caused by any defect
therein, nor shall the town or any officer or employee of such town be held as
assuming such liability by reason of the inspection or re-inspection as herein
provided or by reason of the approval or disapproval of any equipment
authorized herein.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.064 TEMPORARY SERVICES; CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Issuance of temporary certificate. When, for good and sufficient
cause, it is necessary to have the electricity on any installation before final
certificate can be issued, the electrical inspector may, if the parts to which
the current is applied are in a safe and satisfactory condition, issue a
temporary certificate.
   (B)   Temporary service installation. Whenever a temporary service is
installed satisfactory to the electrical inspector, the electric service
company will not be permitted to make a connection to permanent service until
after a final permanent certificate has been issued.
   (C)   Fee. Before the temporary certificate is issued, the party requesting
the same shall pay a fee as set by the Town Board.
   (D)   Term of certificate; extensions. A temporary certificate shall be in
force for a period of 30 days from its issue, and if, at the end of 30 days,
the installation is still incomplete, another temporary certificate shall be
taken out for the next 30 days, and each succeeding 30 days thereafter, and for
each term so requested, the required fee shall be paid.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.065 INSTALLATION APPROVAL BEFORE CONCEALING WORK.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or individual
to conceal or cause to be concealed any electrical equipment used for electric
light, heat or power, until they know the installation has been approved by the
electrical inspector; and a tag in the switch cabinet, or attached to the
service equipment, properly signed and dated, so stating, will be sufficient
notice.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.066 ROUGHED IN WORK.
   (A)   New or old work. New or old work “roughed in” shall include all
electrical equipment to make the installation complete, be free from
unintentional grounds, with joints properly made up, ready for attachment of
fixtures, drop lights and appliances.
   (B)   New work. After making inspection of new work “roughed in”, the
electrical inspector shall leave a tag or notice in the switch cabinet or
attached to the service equipment, plainly indicating whether the work has been
approved and is ready to conceal, or that the installation is not standard and
must not be covered until approved by the electrical inspector.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.067 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Pilot light for irons. In all mercantile occupancies where electric
irons are used, they must be installed with approved pilot light. If pilot
light is in an enclosure such as an alteration room, an additional light must
be installed in a visible position outside the enclosure.
   (B)   Branch circuits.
      (1)   In residential and mercantile occupancies, lighting branch circuits
shall be confined to 1,000 watts, and not more than eight outlets per circuit
will be allowed in the fire limits.
      (2)   Branch circuit conductors shall be smaller than No. 12.
      (3)   Type C lamp cord will not be permitted in the kitchen or
restaurants or like places where grease accumulates, nor in part of a building
where live poultry is confined.
   (C)   Basement installations.
      (1)   A circuit of not less than No. 12 wire shall be installed in
basements in any area subject to floods.
      (2)   Ground connections shall not be made in toilets, adjacent to salt
storage, acid vapors or in any location where the grounding conductor and
fitting is likely to become corroded.
   (D)   Wiring in fire zone.
      (1)   All wiring hereafter installed in the fire limits must be placed in
metallic raceways.
      (2)   Armored cable or flexible conduit is to be used only when, in the
judgment of the electrical inspector, it is impractical to install other
metallic raceways.
      (3)   Exception to the requirements of this division (D) are specified in
division (E) of this section.
   (E)   Extensions of certain installations. Wiring installations, consisting
of concealed knob and tube, cleat, armored cable or flexible conduit that was
installed previous to the adoption of this code when, in the judgment of the
electrical inspector, is in a safe condition, may have extension of the same
kind of work made to these installations.
   (F)   Overhead service conductors.
      (1)   Overhead service conductors shall be installed in approved metallic
raceways, unless approved service entrance cable is used; and raceway shall be
continuous to, and securely attached to service equipment.
      (2)   Installations of four circuits or more shall have three wire
service.
      (3)   No service conductor shall be less than No. 6 B & S gauge.
   (G)   Rigid conduit.
      (1)   For mechanical security and continuity to ground, rigid conduit
shall be provided with two lock nuts, one inside and one outside the equipment
to which it is attached.
      (2)   Metallic service equipment rigid conduit, electrical metallic
tubing, flexible conduit, metallic switch, outlet receptacle and junction boxes
shall have a conductive coating or finish. Water- tight couplings shall be
employed for joining electrical metallic tubing.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
MECHANICAL CODE
§ 150.080 MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the design, installation, maintenance, alteration and
inspection of mechanical systems in buildings and structures, including permits
and penalties, that certain mechanical code known as the International
Mechanical Code, hereinafter referred to as the “Mechanical Code”, the latest
edition as recommended by the International Code Council as adopted by the
State of Oklahoma and its amendments, portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or amended, of which no less than one copy has been and now is filed
in the office of the Town Clerk.
      (2)   The same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein.
   (B)   From the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions
of the code as herein modified shall be controlling in the design,
installations, maintenance, alteration and inspection of mechanical systems in
buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the town. As the
Mechanical Code is subsequently amended or modified, the changes shall be
incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   Violation: any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a violation of the ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.081 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO MECHANICAL CODE.
   The following insertions and deletions are made to the Mechanical Code:
   (A)   The words “the Town of Hennessey, Oklahoma,” are inserted in the
second line of Section 101.1;
   (B)   The following fee schedule is inserted in Section 106.5.2: “The permit
fees for performing the activity described in this chapter shall be set
periodically by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Hennessey, Oklahoma, by
duly adopted resolution, and the fees may be amended by resolution of the Town
of Hennessey Town Board of Trustees.”;
   (C)   The words “zero” and “zero” are inserted in the fifth and eighth lines
respectively of Section 106.5.3; The words “offense” and “$500” are inserted in
the seventh and eighth lines respectively of Section 108.4 and all references
to imprisonment in the section are deleted; and
   (D)   The words “$100” and “$500” are inserted in the thirteenth and
fourteenth lines respectively of Section 108.5.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.082 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   Amendment. Section 106.1 of the Mechanical Code is amended to include
the following.
      (1)   “No person, firm or corporation shall be issued a mechanical
permit, operate a place of business, or engage in the business of contracting,
to do installation, maintenance or alteration of mechanical systems in
buildings and structures within the town, including, but not limited to, forced
air heating-refrigeration and gas fitting unless the person or the agent or
employee performing mechanical work for the firm or corporation first obtains a
license and pays the tax thereon as prescribed.
      (2)   The applicant for a forced air heating-refrigeration license must
show and maintain a license issued by the Oklahoma Construction Industries
Board 158:50-1-3 pursuant to the Mechanical Licensing Act, being 59 O.S. §§
1850.1 et seq.
      (3)   The applicant for a gas fitting license must hold an appropriate
certificate from the Board of Examiners of Gas Fitters, as a master or
journeyman, whichever the case may be.
      (4)   The provisions of this section shall apply to a mechanical
maintenance person in the employ of the owner of the building or buildings in
which the mechanical work is to be performed.
      (5)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to: “The owner and
occupant of a single-family residential dwelling performing necessary repairs,
additions or alterations to heat and air or gas service to the dwelling,
excluding any work on connections to meters or mains or work within a public
easement or right-of-way.”
   (B)   Fees. Any person, firm or corporation, before installation or
servicing of heating and air condition systems or being a mechanical contractor
or journeyman or apprentice shall pay to the Town Clerk a registration fee in
such sum as set by the Town Board by motion or resolution.
   (C)   Issuance; annual certificate. The town shall issue certificates for
such registration which shall expire annually on June 30.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.083 BOND REQUIRED.
   All mechanical contractors shall, prior to the commencement of any
mechanical work, furnish a current state mechanical license as a bond
guarantee.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.084 INSPECTIONS.
   Section 107.1 of the Mechanical Code is amended to include:
“It shall be the duty of the owner, contractor or permittee to inquire with the
town inspector as to the times or stages that inspection shall be required and
advise the engineering and inspection department when the owner, contractor or
permittee is ready for inspection.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.085 MECHANICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Office created; appointment. The office of mechanical inspector is
hereby created and shall be the building official unless some other person is
appointed by the Town Board.
   (B)   Duties. The mechanical inspector may carry out the performance of this
chapter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.086 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   Permit. No mechanical work shall be undertaken within the town without
a permit therefor from the mechanical inspector.
   (B)   Fees. The fees to be paid for a mechanical permit shall be as provided
by the Town Board by motion or resolution.
   (C)   Application for permit; inspection. The application for permit and
inspection of work shall follow the provisions of the town’s mechanical code.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.087 MINOR REPAIRS.
   Minor repairs allowed without registration or permit.
   (A)   Registration or permit will not be required for the making of minor
repairs in existing heating and air condition systems.
   (B)   The making of minor repairs shall consist of the repairing or
replacing of minor parts or minor components of heating and air condition
systems.
   (C)   All minor repairs shall be made by licensed mechanical contractors or
journeymen under the supervision of mechanical contractors, except that owners
of property may either make such minor repairs on their own properties
themselves or have the same made under their direct supervision.
   (D)   Exceptions: the making of minor repairs shall not be construed to mean
replacing the complete heating and air condition systems, nor the replacement,
or repair of a major component such as a compressor (but a fan motor would not
be a major component) nor the substantial alteration of a system such as a
conversion from electric to gas or gas to electric, nor shall this section be
construed to permit master mechanical contractors to make minor repairs by or
through anyone except licensed journeymen or an apprentice.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.088 BOARD OF APPEALS; MEMBER QUALIFICATIONS.
   Section 109.2 of the Mechanical Code is deleted, and the following is
substituted therefor:
“The members of the Board of Appeals shall consist of the duly appointed
members of the Town of Hennessey Board of Adjustment.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.089 INCINERATORS.
   Section 907.1 of the Mechanical Code is deleted, and the following is
substituted therefor:
   (A)   No incinerator shall be constructed, erected or replaced in the town
after April 4, 1978. Any incinerator lawfully existing as of the date may
continue to operate so long as it is operated in compliance with this section.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall use, operate or burn any matter
in any incinerator until a license has been issued therefor and a tax paid as
provided.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall authorize or permit any
person, firm or corporation to maintain and use an incinerator in a manner as
to become a nuisance or annoyance to the neighborhood.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
FUEL GAS CODE
§ 150.100 FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the design, installations, alteration and inspection of
plumbing systems in buildings and structures, including permits and penalties,
that certain plumbing code known as the International Fuel Gas Code,
hereinafter called “Fuel Gas Code”, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., being particularly the latest editions adopted by the state and
its amendments and all amendments thereof, save and except the portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which no less than one copy has
been and now is filed in the office of the Town Clerk. The same is hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   From the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions
of the code as herein modified shall be controlling in the design,
installation, maintenance, alteration and inspection of plumbing systems in
buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the town connected to
any water or sewer system owned or operated by the town inside or outside its
corporate limits. As the Fuel Gas Code is subsequently amended or modified, the
changes shall be incorporated by reference.
   (C)   Violation: any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a violation of the ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.101 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO FUEL GAS CODE.
   The following insertions and deletions are made to the Fuel Gas Code:
   (A)   101.1 is amended by inserting the jurisdiction: Town of Hennessey,
Oklahoma;
   (B)   106.6.3.2 is amended by inserting: eighty percent (80%);
   (C)   106.6.3.3 is amended by inserting: one hundred percent (100%);
   (D)   106.6.2 is amended by inserting: The words “The permit fees for
performing the activity described in this chapter shall be set periodically by
the Town Board of Trustees for the Town of Hennessey, Oklahoma, by duly adopted
resolution, and the fees may be amended by resolution of the Town of Hennessey
Town Board of Trustees.”; and
   (E)   108.4 is amended by inserting the words “Any person who shall violate
a provision of this code or who fails to comply with any of the requirements
thereof or shall erect, construct, alter, repair or remove any fuel gas system
and/or gas appliance in violation of detailed statement or plan submitted and
approved hereunder, or of a permit or certificate issued hereunder, shall be
guilty of an offense and upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
150.999 of the Code of Ordinances.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.102 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   Generally. No fuel gas fitting or fuel gas piping work shall be
undertaken within the town without a permit therefor from the plumbing
inspector. The fees to be paid for a fuel gas fitting or fuel gas piping permit
shall be as provided by the Town Board by motion or resolution. The application
for permit and inspection of work shall follow the provisions of the town’s
Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Permit required. Before any person, firm or corporation shall install
any equipment in the town for storage, dispensation or handling of liquefied
petroleum and/or fuel gases, such person, firm or corporation shall first
obtain a permit therefor from the town.
   (C)   Local and state authority. In granting or refusing such permit, the
Fire Chief or his or her appointee shall take into consideration the proposed
location of such equipment, and the probable hazards involved by reason of the
proposed location thereof, and must have the approval of the state liquefied
petroleum gas administrator in conformity with the state laws regulating such
approval by the state liquefied State Liquified Petroleum Gas Administrator.
   (D)   Fee. A permit for the storage or dispensation of liquefied petroleum
and/or fuel gas shall not be issued until a fee as set by the Town Board has
been paid to the town.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.103 REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   Registration fee. Any person, firm or corporation, before engaging in
the business of fuel gas fitting or fuel gas piping or being a fuel gas fitting
or fuel gas piping contractor, journeyman fuel gas fitter or apprentice, shall
pay to the Town Clerk a registration fee in such sum as set by the Town Board
by resolution.
   (B)   Annual registration. The town shall issue certificates for such
registration which shall expire annually as specified in the certificate.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.104 BOND REQUIRED.
   All fuel gas fitting or piping contractors shall, prior to the commencement
of any fuel gas fitting or fuel gas piping work, furnish a current state fuel
gas fitting or fuel gas piping license as a bond guarantee and condition that:
   (A)   The installation of fuel gas fitting or fuel gas piping shall be in
accordance with the requirements of this code;
   (B)   The contractor shall, without additional cost to the person for whom
the work has been done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused by
incompetent workers, inferior or nonstandard materials; and
   (C)   Such bond as is furnished shall be liable for the correction of any
additional cost arising from the above-mentioned cause.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.105 MINOR REPAIRS.
   (A)   Repairs allowed without registration or permit.
      (1)   Registration or permit will not be required for the making of minor
repairs in existing fuel gas fitting or fuel gas piping within any building.
      (2)   The making of minor repairs shall consist of the repairing or
replacing of parts of fuel gas systems and the replacing or repairing of all
trimmings or parts of fuel gas fixtures with the exception of traps.
      (3)   All minor repairs shall be made by licensed fuel gas fitting or
fuel gas piping contractors or journeymen fuel gas fitters under the
supervision of fuel gas fitting or fuel gas piping contractors.
   (B)   Restrictions. The making of minor repairs shall not be construed to
mean replacing of complete fuel gas distribution systems nor the making of
connections with fuel gas supply mains, nor the replacement, or repair of fuel
gas tanks or parts thereof, nor shall this division (B) be construed to permit
master fuel gas fitters to make minor repairs by or through anyone except
licensed journeymen fuel gas fitters.
   (C)   Connecting fuel gas appliances. A permit will not be required for
setting or connecting gas appliances in the same room where connection is made
to an opening placed by a licensed plumber or a licensed gas fitter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.106 BOARD OF APPEALS; MEMBER QUALIFICATIONS.
   Section 109.2 of the Fuel Gas Code is deleted, and the following is
substituted therefor:
“The members of the Board of Appeals shall consist of the duly appointed
members of the Town of Hennessey Board of Adjustment.”
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY
§ 150.120 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED; APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   Certificate of occupancy required. 
      (1)   An application for a certificate of occupancy shall be required for
either a new occupancy or a change in occupancy is desired. The application for
the certificate shall be made to the building inspector and the building
inspector shall be supplied with sufficient information and data necessary to
determine compliance with this title for the type of occupancy intended. When
in the opinion of the building inspector it is necessary, two sets of detailed
plans or a general inspection or both may be required.
      (2)   When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the
building conforms to the provisions of this title, to the applicable zoning
laws, and to the health standards as may be set therefor by the County Health
Department for such occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
   (B)   Certificate of occupancy application fee. The fee shall be set by a
resolution of the Board of Trustees. A current copy of the fee schedule shall
be kept in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.121 NEW BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No new building or part thereof shall be occupied until the building
inspector shall have issued a certificate of occupancy therefor.
   (B)   The building inspector shall not issue a certificate of occupancy for
any such new building or structure unless and until he or she is furnished with
a zoning clearance permit specifying that such building has been erected within
the use classification permitted on the land.
   (C)   Where said building or structure is to be used as an eating or
drinking establishment, or for such purposes as to come within the supervision
of the Health Department, then the building inspector shall not issue a
certificate of occupancy until prior approval or clearance has been given by
said Health Department.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.122 CONTENTS OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The certificate of occupancy provided in §
150.120 of this chapter shall state the nature of the occupancy permitted, the
number of persons for each floor when limited by law, the allowable load per
square foot for each floor in accordance with the provisions of this title and
shall certify that the building was erected in compliance with the approved
plans and with the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Said certificate of occupancy shall also contain such limitations as
to the type and nature of the occupancy as may be determined by the building
inspector under the provisions of the Building Code.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.123 TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY.
   A temporary certificate of occupancy may, in the discretion of the building
inspector, be issued for a portion or portions of a building which may be
safely occupied prior to final completion of the entire building.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.124 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No change of occupancy for any existing building or structure may be
obtained without a change of occupancy certificate as required by the
provisions of this title.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.125 WITHHOLDING CERTIFICATE.
   Notwithstanding, however, no certificate of occupancy shall be issued
(whether for new or existing buildings, or portions thereof) by the building
inspector unless and until he or she shall be satisfied that the particular
occupancy shall be in compliance with the applicable zoning laws and the health
requirements of the County Health Department. Also, no certificate of occupancy
shall be issued when the building or structure shall be considered unsafe,
hazardous or shall be condemned by the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.126 EXEMPTIONS.
   This title shall not be deemed to apply to, and no certificate of occupancy
shall be required for residential structures or dwellings and for change of
offices by tenants, that is removal of offices from one building to another.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.140 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   Every person who shall engage in the business of moving buildings and
structures within the town shall obtain a license therefor from the town
offices, and no such license shall be granted until the party applying therefor
shall have given the bond required by §
150.141 of this chapter. Any person engaging in the occupation of house moving
shall pay a license fee. The annual fee shall be set by a resolution of the
Board of Trustees. A current copy of the fee schedule shall be kept in the
office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.141 BOND REQUIRED.
   The bond to be given by a licensed house mover shall be executed to the town
in the penal sum of $2,500, with a surety company authorized to do business in
the state as surety thereon, which said bond shall be for the benefit of the
town and any private person or corporation sustaining damages under the
conditions thereof. Any such private person or corporation shall be entitled to
sue thereon, in his, her or its own name. The bond shall be on condition, among
other things, that if the license shall be granted, the licensee will in all
respects comply with the ordinances of the town relating to the moving of
buildings or structures and to the use or obstruction of the streets, highways
and other public ways and protect the town from all liability which may arise
or be occasioned either directly or indirectly from the moving of any building
or structure by the licensee, his or her agents, servants, employees, workmen,
contractors, or subcontractors, while engaged in any work in connection with
the moving of any building or structure, including any loss or damages which
may be sustained because of the stoppage of any business or industry located
along the route over which the building or structure shall be moved, caused or
occasioned by the operation of moving such building or structure.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.142 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Required. No building or structure now or hereafter erected within the
corporate limits of the town shall be removed or relocated without a permit for
such work issued by the town offices, upon written application made therefor.
   (B)   Application. No application for a permit to move any building or
structure on, over, along or across any street or highway shall be granted to
any person other than a licensed house mover, who shall file with the town
offices a written application therefor, definitively stating in such
application:
      (1)   Type of building. Type and kind of building to be moved;
      (2)   Cost and value. The original cost and present value of such
building;
      (3)   Dimensions. The extreme dimensions of the length, height, and width
of the building;
      (4)   Locations. Its present location and proposed new location by lot,
block, subdivision and street numbers;
      (5)   Time on streets; route. The approximate time such building will be
upon the streets, and the contemplated route that will be taken from present to
new location; and
      (6)   Compliance with law. That the moving of this building does not
violate the fire district requirements, or any other requirements of the
ordinances of the town.
   (C)   Action on application. When such application is filed with the town
offices, such offices shall immediately notify the Fire Chief and the Police
Chief. Upon receiving such notification, the Town Administrator, or his or her
duly appointed representative, shall examine the proposed moving route and make
such changes therein as he or she shall deem necessary, or designate an entire
new route, and attach to the application for such permit his or her certificate
of approval of such designated moving route. The building inspector shall then
make the inspection required relating to his or her department; and if it is
found that the building or structure can be moved and relocated in accordance
with the requirements of this subchapter, it shall then be the duty of the town
offices to issue a permit for such work; otherwise such permit shall be
refused.
   (D)   Issuance of permit; payment of fee. If the application is in
accordance with the requirements of the ordinances and laws, the Town Clerk
shall issue the permit upon the payment by the applicant of a moving building
permit fee. The fee shall be set by a resolution of the Board of Trustees. A
current copy of the fee schedule shall be kept in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.143 INSPECTION.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.144 TOWN LIMITS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.145 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.146 FLOOR AREA RESTRICTIONS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.147 PUBLIC SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.148 CONDUCT OF MOVING.
   [Reserved]
Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.149 POLES AND WIRES.
   [Reserved]
Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.150 TREES AND FIXTURES.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.151 RAILWAY TRACKS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.152 EXCEPTIONS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
FACTORY-BUILT STRUCTURES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS
§ 150.165 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FACTORY-BUILT HOUSING. A factory-built structure designed for long term
residential use. For the purposes of these regulations, FACTORY-BUILT HOUSING
consists of three types: modular homes; mobile homes; and manufactured homes.
   FACTORY-BUILT STRUCTURES. Any structure that is wholly, or in substantial
part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled in a manufacturing facility for
installation or assembly and installation on a building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, intended for use as a residential dwelling,
transportable in one or more sections, which is built in an off-site facility
for installation or assembly at the building site, and bearing a seal
certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.),
which became effective June 15, 1976, and any amendments thereto, and which
does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles. A
mobile home is not a MANUFACTURED HOME, except as hereinafter provided.
   MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENT. A general category of development that
includes manufactured home subdivisions and manufactured home parks.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership on which two
or more manufactured homes are located for the purpose of occupancy as
residential dwellings.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and/or intended for
the sale of lots for siting manufactured homes and modular homes.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, factory-built structure designed to be used as
a residential dwelling and built prior to the enactment of the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code of 1974 (42 U.S.C.
§§ 5401 et seq.), which became effective June 15, 1976.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes are
located for the purpose of occupancy as residential dwellings, regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   MODULAR HOME. A structure intended for residential use and manufactured off
site in accordance with the (local or state) building code.
   NONRESIDENTIAL FACTORY BUILT STRUCTURES. Any structure, having the basic
characteristics of a mobile home or travel trailer but which is designed for
purposes other than as a residential dwelling and is not being offered for
sale.
   STORM SHELTER. A single structure of multiple structure designed to provide
persons with temporary protection from a storm. The term storm shelter will
include any above or below ground shelter in which the design, construction and
installation comply with the most recent versions of FEMA Publications 320
(Taking Shelter from the Storm) and FEMA 361 (Design and Construction Criteria
for Community Safe Rooms), as well as ICC 500 (Standards for the Design and
Construction of Storm Shelters).
   TRAVEL TRAILER. All vehicles and portable structures built on a chassis,
designed as a temporary or permanent dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation use, including tent trailers and motor driven vehicles.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any plot of ground which two or more travel trailers
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located, regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.166 PERMITTED PLACEMENT OF HOMES.
   (A)   (1)   From the date of passage hereof, no mobile home or manufactured
home shall be permitted in the town’s residential or platted areas unless in a
previously established mobile or manufactured home park and are not permitted
in unplatted areas less than five acres. In unplatted areas of five acres or
more, the mobile home must be 660 feet from the property line of any platted
area or residence, unless written permission has been received from property
owners within 660 feet and after approval from the Town Board of Trustees.
      (2)   A permit to place mobile or manufactured housing in an unplatted
area of five acres or more is required and may be issued by the inspection
officer, if the application for permit complies with all town regulations. No
variance may be granted to an applicant who does not meet the requirements of
this section.
   (B)   (1)   From the date of passage hereof, no new placement of travel
trailers shall be permitted within any mobile home park or manufactured home
development within the town corporate limits.
      (2)   The placement of travel trailers is restricted to travel trailer
parks only, provided that existing mobile home parks having existing spaces
equipped for travel trailer usage are permitted to continue to locate trailers
at such sites provided that each travel trailer placed on such sites shall
comply with the area, location and building regulations set forth in this
subchapter.
   (C)   Mobile homes presently existing inside of a mobile home park or
manufactured home park may remain provided they are maintained and operated in
accordance with all applicable regulations, licenses and permits of the town.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.167 NONRESIDENTIAL FACTORY-BUILT STRUCTURES PROHIBITED.
   Nonresidential factory-built structures shall be prohibited, except
temporary use, not to exceed 180 days, if granted by the Town Board of
Adjustments through the special exception process.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.168 NOTICE FOR VIOLATIONS TO LICENSEE.
   Whenever the health officer, Fire Marshal or inspection officer finds
conditions existing in violation of this chapter, or of any regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, he or she shall give notice in writing to the person to whom
the license was issued that, unless such conditions or practices be corrected
within a reasonable period of time specified in the notice, the license will be
suspended. At the end of such period, not to exceed 90 days, the inspection
officer, Fire Marshal or health officer shall reinspect such park, and if such
conditions or practices have not been corrected, he or she shall suspend the
license and give notice in writing of such suspension to the person to whom the
license was issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension such person shall
cease operation of such park except as provided in §
150.175 of this chapter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.169 FACTORY-BUILT HOME REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any factory-built home located within the town shall comply with all
regulations herein contained concerning the inspection by the health officer,
inspection officer and Fire Marshal to meet with the sections herein relating
to sewer, water, sanitation and electrical installations and shall meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   Each home shall bear a seal certifying compliance with the federal
manufactured construction and safety standards as revised. All structures must
meet minimum wind safety standards.
      (2)   Each unit must be at least a minimum of 1,200 square feet.
      (3)   Each unit must be attached to a permanent concrete or concrete
block foundation that meets all town codes. There must be a footing/stem wall
foundation and flooring substructure that must be a minimum of 24 inches above
exterior ground level.
      (4)   The roof must be hip or gable type construction with at least Class
C shingle roofing material or an approved metal roofing system. Roof slope
shall be a minimum 3/12 slope with a distinctive eave overhang. No bare metal
siding or roofing shall be allowed. Any and all metal shall be confined to the
roof and must be of a baked on painted surface and approved by the planning
committee.
      (5)   Exterior finish must be compatible with surrounding existing homes;
this includes skirting materials.
      (6)   Any attached or nonattached structures, i.e., garages, carport or
outbuildings, must be compatible with the structure and surrounding existing
homes. All porches must be permanent and affixed. These must also be compatible
with structures and surrounding existing homes.
      (7)   Each unit must be owner occupied and ownership must include the lot
on which it is placed.
      (8)   Each home must meet the county’s criteria to be assessed as a “real
estate manufactured home”, and not as a “personal property manufactured home”.
      (9)   Each unit must be a single-family dwelling.
      (10)   All transporting equipment must be removed from the structure with
no visible means of distinction, i.e., all axles and hitches.
      (11)   Only installers certified by the state must install all structures
and installer’s certification must be presented upon application of permit.
      (12)   Each home shall have a manufactured date of no more than five
years preceding date of permit application.
   (B)   Existing factory-built homes within the town limits on the passage
date hereof shall continue in their existing condition, but upon removal from
its current lot any replacement must adhere to the requirements in this
section.
   (C)   (1)   A special exception may be granted by the Board of Adjustments
for a temporary placement of a factory-built home or travel trailer for one
year, for the purpose of a residence during the construction of a permanent
site-built home.
      (2)   Plans must be submitted at the time of application and permit
requests. This must be approved by the Board before the special exception will
be granted. The special exception may be extended upon approval from the board
of adjustments.
   (D)   Storm shelters will be encouraged for all factory-built structures
prior to the occupancy said structure installed on a lot or space inside of the
town limits.
   (E)   A building permit will be required for all factory-built structures
prior to the installation on a lot or space inside of the town limits and a
copy of the manufactured home installer’s license must accompany the request
for the building permit. No utilities shall be connected prior to the issuance
of a building permit.
   (F)   A building permit shall be required for any construction on a factory-
built structure lot or space or any alteration or structural addition to the
extension of a factory-built structure.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.170 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The inspection officer, Fire Marshal or health officer is hereby
authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the conditions of
manufactured home parks located within the town in order to perform their duty
of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of manufactured home parks
and of the general public.
   (B)   Wrecked, damaged or dilapidated factory-built structures and travel
trailers shall not be kept or stored in a manufactured home park, mobile home
park or travel trailer park. The health officer shall determine if a mobile
home, manufactured home or travel trailer is dilapidated to a point which makes
the mobile home or travel trailer unfit for human occupancy on either a
temporary or permanent basis. Whenever such a determination is made, the mobile
home or travel trailer shall be vacated and removed from the premises.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.171 INSPECTION OF OUTSIDE PREMISES.
   (A)   The inspection officer, Fire Marshal or health officer shall have the
power to inspect the outside premises of private or public property for the
purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement
of this chapter or of regulations promulgated hereunder.
   (B)   Under an emergency situation and in order to ensure the health, safety
and welfare of the occupants, the inspection officer, Fire Marshal or health
officer shall have the power to inspect the register containing a record of all
manufactured homes and occupants using the park.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.172 OCCUPANT TO GIVE ACCESS.
   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner thereof
or his or her agent or employees access to any part of such mobile home park,
manufactured home park or travel trailer park or their premises at reasonable
times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with this chapter, or with any lawful regulations adopted
hereunder, or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.173 NOTICE OF HEALTH AND SAFETY VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the inspection officer, Fire Marshal or health officer
determines that violations of pertinent regulations exist, the inspection
officer shall provide written notify the licensee or permittee of such alleged
violation. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (2)   Contain an outline of remedial action which if taken will affect
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other pertinent regulations;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days for the performance
of any act it requires provided that violations pertaining to safety of life
may require immediate corrective action; and
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require; provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed as properly served
upon owner or his or her agent when served in accordance with the requirements
of the state statutes.
   (B)   Whenever the health officer, Fire Marshal or the inspection officer
finds conditions existing in violation of this chapter or of any regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, the inspection officer shall give notice in writing
to the person to whom the license was issued, that unless such conditions or
practices be corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in the
notice, the occupation license will be suspended.
   (C)   (1)   At the end of such period, not to exceed 90 days, the inspection
officer, Fire Marshal or health officer shall reinspect such park, and if such
conditions or practices have not been corrected, the inspection officer shall
so inform the Town Clerk and the Clerk shall suspend the license and give
notice in writing of such suspension to the person to whom the license was
issued.
      (2)   Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall cease
operation of such park except as provided in §
150.175 of this chapter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.174 REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice issued under this chapter or
resulting regulations may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the Board of Trustees of the town provided that the person shall file
with the inspection officer a written request for such hearing and setting
forth briefly the grounds for such request within ten days after the day the
notice was served.
   (B)   (1)   When no request for such hearing shall have been filed within
ten days following the day on which notice of suspension was served, such
license shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked at the expiration of
such ten-day period.
      (2)   The filing of such request shall stay the notice of suspension of
permits and licenses except in cases of orders issued under §
150.999 of this chapter.
   (C)   The hearing shall be held by the Board of Trustees of the town at the
earliest possible time.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.175 INSPECTION FINDINGS.
   (A)   After the hearing, the inspection officer shall compile the findings
of the Board of Trustees of the town as to compliance with this chapter and
pursuant regulations and shall issue an order in writing sustaining, modifying
or withdrawing the prior notice which shall be served as provided in §
150.174 of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon failure to comply with such order, the permit of the manufactured
home park, mobile home park or travel trailer park shall be revoked.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.176 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions of the Board of Trustees of the town shall be to the
District Court.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.177 EMERGENCY ACTION WITHOUT NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the inspection officer, Fire Marshal or health officer finds
that an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public
health, the inspection officer may, without notice or hearing, issue an order
reciting the existence of such an emergency and requiring that such action be
taken as he or she may deem it necessary to meet the emergency, including the
suspension of the permit.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter such order shall
be effective immediately.
   (C)   Any person to whom such an order is directed shall comply therewith
immediately, but upon petition to the Board of Trustees shall be afforded a
hearing at the next regular meeting even if the agenda has been completed.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
OIL AND GAS DRILLING
§ 150.190 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   Whereas the imprudent operation of an oil and gas facility can constitute a
menace to the public health, safety and welfare of the town, it is the intent
and purpose of this subchapter that oil and gas operations be reasonably
regulated for the public good.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.191 DEFINITIONS.
   All technical or oil and gas industry words or phrases used herein and not
specifically defined herein shall have the meanings customarily attributable
thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas industry. For the purpose of
this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED WELL. Each well in which no production casing has been run, and
for which drilling or testing operations have ceased for 30 consecutive days;
or any other well for which there is no current town permit.
   ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION. The raising to the surface of the earth, by means
other than natural flow, petroleum or natural gas.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The governing body of the town.
   CORPORATION COMMISSION. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission.
   DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE. Any chemical, salt water, oil field brine, waste oil,
waste emulsified oil, basic sediment, mud or injurious substances produced or
used in the drilling, development, producing, transportation, refining and
processing of oil, gas or condensate.
   ENHANCED RECOVERY. An operation by which fluid or energy is introduced into
a source of supply for the purpose of facilitating recovery therefrom.
   MAYOR. The chief elected official of the town.
   NATURAL PRODUCTION. The raising to the surface of the earth, by natural
flow, petroleum or natural gas.
   OIL AND GAS INSPECTOR. That person, firm or corporation qualified and
employed by the town to enforce the provisions of this chapter, or by his or
her authorized representatives.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom is issued a permit or permits under the terms
of this chapter.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, trust,
cooperative or other type of organization.
   POLLUTION. The contamination or other alteration of the physical, chemical
or biological properties of any natural waters of the town, or such discharge
of any liquid, gaseous or solid substance into any water of the town as will or
is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful or detrimental or
injurious to:
      (1)   Public health, safety or welfare;
      (2)   To domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or
other beneficial uses; or
      (3)   To livestock, animals or aquatic life.
   PRESSURE MAINTENANCE. An operation by which gas, water or other fluids are
injected into a supply of oil to maintain pressure or retard pressure decline
therein for the purpose of facilitating recovery therefrom, and which has been
approved by the State Corporation Commission after notice and hearing.
   SALT WATER. As used in this chapter shall mean any water containing more
than 500 milligrams per liter (500 mg/l) chlorides.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma, its branches, departments, agencies, boards or
the officers thereof.
   TREATABLE WATER. Surface and subsurface water in its natural state which may
or may not require treatment to be useful for human consumption and contains
less than 10,000 ppm total dissolved solids and/or 5,000 ppm chlorides.
   WATER, WATERS OF THE TOWN or TOWN WATER. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage systems
and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface and underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon, the town or any portion thereof.
   WELL. Shall mean, unless specifically qualified, any hole or holes, bore or
bores, to any depth, for the purpose of producing and recovering any oil, gas
or liquefied petroleum matter or deleterious substances, or for the injection
or disposal of any of the foregoing.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.192 OIL AND GAS INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Employment. The Town Board of Trustees shall appoint a qualified
person, firm or corporation as an oil and gas inspector, whose duty it shall be
to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Authority, duties.
      (1)   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to issue such
orders or directives as are required to carry out the intent and purpose of
this chapter and its particular provisions. Failure to abide by any such order
or directive shall be a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to go upon and
inspect any premises covered by the terms of this chapter to ascertain whether
this chapter and the applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards or
directives of the state are being complied with. Failure to permit access to
the oil and gas inspector shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
      (3)   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to request and
receive any records, specified in this chapter, relating to the status or
condition of any well or project or the appurtenances thereto within the town.
Failure to provide any such requested material shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.193 PERMIT REQUIRED; ANNUAL INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   Permit. It is unlawful and an offense for any person acting for
himself or herself or acting as agent, servant, employee, subcontractor or
independent contractor of any other person, to operate or maintain a well
within the town, or to work upon or assist in any way in the production or
operation of any such well, without a permit having first been issued by the
authority of the oil and gas inspector in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Annual inspection fee to operate.
      (1)   An annual inspection fee is hereby levied upon each well operated
or maintained under a permit issued by the town; such fee as set by the Town
Board of Trustees by resolution, payable to the town on or before the annual
anniversary date of the issuance of any permit under this chapter.
      (2)   No permit for any well shall be considered valid for any year for
which the annual fee has not been paid.
      (3)   Failure to pay any required permit fee within 30 days of a
delinquent notice sent to the latest address provided by the permittee will
result in cancellation of the permit.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.194 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FILING FEE.
   (A)   Filing fee; contents of application. Every application for a permit to
drill an original well or to reenter an abandoned well shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant or by some person duly authorized to sign same on his
or her behalf, and it shall be filed with the oil and gas inspector and be
accompanied by a permit fee as set by the Town Board of Trustees by resolution.
No application shall request a permit to drill more than one well. The
application shall contain full information required by the oil and gas
inspector, including the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant and date of application;
      (2)   Where applying for a proposed original well:
         (a)   A block map of the ten acres surrounding the drill site,
including thereon the location of the proposed well, and distance therefrom to
all existing dwelling houses, buildings or other structures, designed for the
occupancy of human beings or animals, and the owners thereof, as shown by the
current tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s office, within 300 feet of any such
well, and the location of all existing oil, gas or fresh water wells within the
ten acre tract; and
         (b)   The names of the mineral, surface and lease owners.
      (3)   A drilling prognosis, to specify in detail the amount, weight and
size of conductor pipe and surface pipe and the procedures to be used for
cementing such. Plugging procedures to be used in the event production is not
established shall also be specified;
      (4)   A statement of the provisions for water for the drilling rig;
      (5)   (a)   A written plan for disposal of deleterious substances
produced during the drilling operations and any deleterious substances produced
as a result of production from the well.
         (b)   This plan shall include the method of transportation and the
name of transporter or transport contractor for the deleterious substances and
the name and location of the permitted disposal site, including a copy of the
permit for the disposal site and a contract with the owner of the permitted
site for the disposal of the deleterious substances, or in the alternative,
provide proof of ownership of the permitted disposal site.
         (c)   The permittee shall provide monthly reports to the town of the
amount of saltwater and other deleterious substances produced, along with
receipts for disposal of same;
      (6)   The name and address of the person within the state upon whom
service of process upon applicant may be made within this state; and in the
case of any nonresident person who has no such service agent within this state,
there shall be attached to the application the designation of such a service
agent resident in the county, and a consent that service of summons may be made
upon such person in any action to enforce any of the obligations of the
applicant hereunder; and
      (7)   A verification of the above information by the applicant hereunder.
   (B)   Copy of state drilling permit. A copy of the approved drilling permit
from the State Corporation Commission and a copy of the staking plat shall be
filed with the town prior to issuance of the municipal permit.
   (C)   Reentry of abandoned well. Where the application is one for the
reentry of an abandoned well, the application shall contain all the information
required by division (A) of this section, with the exception that the oil and
gas inspector may vary the requirements thereof to suit the application before
him or her. Provided, that such an application for a permit to reenter an
abandoned well shall provide the following information in every case:
      (1)   A statement of:
         (a)   The then condition of the well;
         (b)   The depth to which it is proposed such well shall be deepened;
and
         (c)   The proposed casing program to be in connection with the
proposed deepening.
      (2)   Evidence of adequate current tests showing that the casing strings
currently passed the same tests that are required in the case of the drilling
of an original well.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.195 ISSUANCE OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Issuance; conditions. The oil and gas inspector, within 30 business
days after the filing of an application for a permit under this chapter, shall
determine whether or not the application complies in all respects with the
provisions of this subchapter and applicable federal and state law, and, if it
does, shall recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees that the permit be
issued. Each permit issued under the terms of this subchapter shall:
      (1)   By reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of this
chapter with the same force and effect as if this chapter were copied verbatim
therein;
      (2)   By reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of
applicable state law and the rules, regulations and standards adopted in
accordance therewith relating to the protection of human beings, animals and
natural resources;
      (3)   Specify that the term of the permit shall be for a period of one
year from the date of issuance thereof, and for like periods thereafter upon
the successful inspection of the permittee’s well and operations, as is
provided for elsewhere herein;
      (4)   Specify such conditions imposed by the oil and gas inspector as are
by this chapter authorized; and
      (5)   Specify that no actual operations shall be commenced until the
permittee shall file and have approved the required bond and certificate of
insurance in the appropriate amounts as provided for elsewhere herein.
   (B)   Original signed copies of permit. If the permit be issued, it shall,
in two originals, be signed by the oil and gas inspector and the permittee, and
when so signed shall constitute the permittee’s license to drill and operate in
the town and the contractual obligation of the permittee to comply with the
terms of such permit, such bonds as are required, and applicable state law,
rules, regulations, standards and directives. One executed original copy of the
permit shall be retained by the oil and gas inspector; the other shall be
retained by the permittee and shall be kept available for inspection by any
town or state law enforcement official who shall demand to see the same.
   (C)   Fees nonrefundable; exception. All permit fees paid shall be
nonrefundable; provided, however, an applicant who has paid a permit fee and
who is not issued a permit, may make written application to the Board of
Trustees for a refund. The Board of Trustees may refund such portion of the
permit fee as the Board in its sole discretion believes is fair and equitable
considering all of the circumstances including the cost and expense to the town
and the reason the permit was not issued. The Board’s decision shall be final.
A permit is issued when it has been approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.196 BOARD OF REVIEW; CONSENT OF ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Board consider recommendations. Upon the consideration of any
application for a permit required by the terms of this chapter, the oil and gas
inspector shall recommend approval or disapproval thereof to the Mayor and Town
Board of Trustees, who shall review the matter at a town meeting, and thereupon
uphold or reverse the recommendation with or without the addition of any
conditions thereto.
   (B)   Adjacent property owners, written consent. The application for a
permit shall be accompanied by the written consent of each owner of an existing
dwelling house, building or other structure designed for occupancy of human
beings or animals, which house, building or structure is within 300 feet of any
such well, as shown in the application §
150.194(A)(2) of this subchapter. The Town Board may not approve the
application without such consent.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.197 INSURANCE AND BOND.
   (A)   Requirements. A permit shall not be issued by the oil and gas
inspector, and no actual operations shall be commenced, until the permittee
shall file with the town a bond and certificate of insurance which is approved
by the Town Board of Trustees as follows.
      (1)   Bond.
         (a)   A bond in the principal sum of $100,000. Any person who drills
or operates any well for the exploration, development or production of oil or
gas, or as an injection or disposal well within the town, shall furnish on
forms approved by the town and maintained at all times as a blanket site
restoration bond or a blanket site restoration irrevocable letter of credit in
the principal sum of $100,000. The bond or letter of credit must be executed by
an insurance company licensed in and in good standing with the state or bank
authorized to do business in the state, as surety or creditor, with the
permittee as principal or debtor, running to the town for the benefit of the
town and all persons concerned, conditioned that the permittee will comply with
the terms and conditions of the town code in the drilling and operation of all
oil or gas wells drilled or operated within the town. The bond or letter of
credit must become effective on or before the date same filed with the town and
remain in full force and effect for at least 12 months subsequent to the
expiration of the initial permit term and all subsequent annual terms, and, in
addition the:
            1.   Bond or letter of credit must be conditioned that the
permittee must promptly pay all fines, penalties and other assessments imposed
upon the permittee by reason of his or her breach of any of the terms,
provisions or conditions of the town code;
            2.   The permittee must promptly restore the streets, sidewalks and
other public property within the town, which may be disturbed or damaged during
the permittee’s operations, to their former condition;
            3.   The permittee must promptly clear all premises of all litter,
trash, waste and other substances, and must, after plugging and abandonment,
grade, level and restore the property to the same surface condition, as far as
possible, as existed prior to commencing operations;
            4.   The permittee shall indemnify and hold harmless the town from
any and all liability attributable to granting the permit;
            5.   The permittee shall promptly pay all sums with respect to
deductibles on covered losses under insurance policies required by the town
code; and
            6.   The permittee shall comply with all of the terms of the town
code concerning the plugging and abandonment of all such wells.
         (b)   Each bond or letter of credit submitted shall cover all wells
drilled or operated by the person within the town as specifically described;
all wells covered by name, legal description and oil and gas permit number, if
any. For good cause shown, the town, after notice to a permittee and
opportunity for hearing, may require the filing of a blanket bond or letter of
credit for all wells within the town in an amount of $100,000. “Good cause”
shall include, but shall not be limited to, a showing that the operator or
permittee has previously violated the provisions of the town code, or that the
operator has multiple wells, that in the sole discretion of the Town Board of
Trustees an additional amount of bond shall be required.
      (2)   Insurance. In addition to the bond required in division (A)(1) of
this section, the permittee shall obtain insurance as follows:
         (a)   An insurance policy of seepage and pollution insurance of
$1,000,000 per well for the benefit of the town and all other persons, from an
insurance company licensed in and in good standing with the state. This
insurance shall remain in full force and effect for at least 12 months
subsequent to the expiration of the initial permit term and all subsequent
annual terms. In the exercise of their sole discretion, the Board of Trustees
of the town shall approve or disapprove such insurance submitted by the
permittee. It is recognized that the terms and conditions of seepage and
pollution insurance will vary, and the Trustees may accept or reject any policy
based upon their collective judgment; and
         (b)   An insurance policy of standard comprehensive public liability
insurance, including contractual liability covering bodily injuries and
property damage, naming the permittee as insured and the town as an additional
insured, issued by an insurer authorized to do business within the state and in
good standing with the state, in the aggregate amount of $1,000,000.
   (B)   Bond and insurance in effect; actions upon cancellation.
      (1)   The bond and insurance required in division (A) of this section
shall be maintained in full force and effect continuously by the permittee
during the initial permit term and all annual renewals thereof and for 12
months following surrender, termination or cancellation of the permit.
      (2)   The insurance policy or policies and bond shall not be cancelled
without written notice to the Town Clerk at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of cancellation.
      (3)   Notice of cancellation shall be by certified mail, return receipt
requested. In the event the insurance or bond is cancelled, the permittee
shall, prior to the cancellation date, provide replacement insurance policy or
policies or bond acceptable to the Town Board of Trustees.
      (4)   In the event the permittee fails to so furnish acceptable
replacement insurance or bond prior to cancellation, the permittee shall
immediately cease all operations, and its permit shall immediately terminate
without any action on the town’s behalf.
      (5)   The permittee may not recommence operations of the well until it
has filed a new application for reinstatement of its permit, together with all
required information and documents of insurance, bond and additional permit
fee, as if for a new well.
      (6)   In addition, an additional bond or irrevocable letter of credit
shall be required upon such terms and amount deemed sufficient by the Board of
Trustees to protect the town and all other persons from potential loss or harm
occasioned by the cancellation of such insurance or bond and for such period of
no insurance or bond coverage.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.198 SEISMIC EXPLORATION; APPROVAL FEE.
   (A)   Filing of map or chart; statement. No person shall conduct seismic
explorations or operations within the town limits without first filing with the
Town Clerk a map or chart showing the location of proposed operations and
explorations in the town and a statement describing the extent of exploration,
equipment to be used and time frame of the proposed exploration.
   (B)   Map or chart approval; payment of fee. After approval of the map or
chart and statement, the payment of the application fee, the exploration or
operation may be conducted.
   (C)   Determination of fee. The fee for the application shall be in an
amount as set by the Town Board by motion or resolution per mile of cable laid
for purpose of the exploration, payable to the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.199 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS.
   No person shall drill an original well or reenter an abandoned well for any
purpose, or permit to exist any well, structure, equipment, pipeline,
machinery, tank or other appurtenance, in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter or other town ordinances as may be applicable, or the laws, rules,
regulations, operative standards or directives of the state.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.200 APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   This subchapter shall apply to any person drilling an original well,
reentering an abandoned well, conducting natural or artificial production
projects or operations, or maintaining a disposal well within the town on July
1, 2020, and every such person shall have no longer than 90 days to come into
compliance with this chapter, provided that:
   (A)   No initial permit fees shall be charged such person as would otherwise
apply; and
   (B)   No penalties shall be sought against any activity violate of this
chapter where such activity preexisted the adoption of this chapter and was
otherwise in compliance with the applicable state law, rules, regulations,
standards or directives.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.201 FORMS FILED WITH STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION.
   Copies of all applications, notices, forms, records, logs and the like filed
by permittee with the State Corporation Commission shall be filed with the town
within one week of such filing with the Corporation Commission. The oil and gas
inspector shall keep confidential all submitted material which the state
requires to be kept confidential.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.202 INFORMAL COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Filing of complaint; notice to permittee. If, upon information or
inspection, it is found that a permittee is violating any portion of this
chapter or causing damage or pollution to any surface or underground treatable
water, the oil and gas inspector shall file a written administrative complaint
with the Mayor, a copy of which shall be delivered or mailed to the permittee
or his or her agent.
   (B)   Action of Town Board. If upon subsequent inspection, it is determined
that the permittee has taken the corrective actions specified, the complaint
may be dismissed; otherwise, formal application will be made to the Town Board
of Trustees for an order revoking the permit, and for any other appropriate
remedy.
   (C)   Authority to shut down operations. Pending the outcome of the final
determination of the Town Board of Trustees on the formal application, the oil
and gas inspector shall, after an on-site inspection, have the authority to
shut down those operations where conditions appear obvious that surface or
underground pollution is occurring.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.203 SERVICE COMPANIES.
   (A)   File reports and records. Upon request of the oil and gas inspector,
service companies or other persons shall furnish and file reports and records
showing perforating, hydraulic fracturing, cementing, shooting, chemical
treatment and all other service operations on any site covered by this chapter.
   (B)   Materials confidential. Such furnished material shall remain
confidential where such confidentiality is usually granted by the state.
   (C)   Failure to provide. Failure to provide any such requested material
shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.204 CONDUITS ON STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Permit required; filing fee.
      (1)   No permittee shall make any excavations or construct any lines for
the conveyance of fuel, water or minerals, on, under or through the streets and
alleys of the town without first having obtained a permit therefor upon
application to the Department of Public Works.
      (2)   The Town Administrator shall prescribe the forms to be used for
such application and the information to accompany it.
      (3)   Each application for a permit under this section shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable filing fee in the amount as set by the Town
Board of Trustees by resolution.
      (4)   The Town Administrator shall, within 20 days of receipt of the
properly executed application, either grant or deny the request.
      (5)   The granting, of any such permit shall not be construed to be the
granting of a franchise.
      (6)   In addition to the application fee in division (A)(3) of this
section, the applicant shall come before the Board of Trustees which may fix a
price per rod for damages to be paid by the applicant for the right to lay the
lines on, under or through the town streets and alleys. The Town Board of
Trustees may consider before fixing a rate per rod for damages the route to be
traveled, the inconvenience to the town and the public, the prevailing
commercial fair market value rate normally paid as damages, and any special
damages which may be caused to town utilities, streets and rights-of-way.
   (B)   Annual fee.
      (1)   The permittee under this chapter shall pay to the town an annual
renewal and inspection fee as set by the Town Board of Trustees by resolution.
      (2)   The Town Administrator shall appoint a representative who shall
inspect such conduits to assure the public safety.
      (3)   No permit issued under this chapter shall be renewed if the conduit
or any part thereof covered by such permit is in an unsafe condition.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.205 ACCUMULATION OF VAPOR.
   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to require the immediate
shutting in or closing of any well if he or she finds that there exists, within
a 100-foot radius of any well, any gas or gasoline vapor in a quantity
sufficient to constitute, in his or her judgment, or in the judgment of the
Town Fire Chief, a fire hazard. The well shall remain shut or closed in until
the hazard and its cause are removed.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.206 INSPECTION OF PRESSURE LINES.
   The oil and gas inspector shall inspect all pressure lines in use at any
well or at any project to assure that tubing, fittings, equipment or
connections are reasonably tight, safe and free from leaks.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.207 ENHANCED RECOVERY, DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCES DISPOSAL WELLS.
   (A)   Permits required. No person shall reenter any well or drill an
original well or convert an existing producing well to be used for enhanced
recovery or disposal of saltwater or other deleterious substances without first
obtaining the necessary permit therefor. Such permit shall consist of two
separate parts:
      (1)   Permit to drill or reenter and construct; and
      (2)   Permit to operate.
   (B)   Drilling or reentry permit; application information. An application
for the permit to drill or reenter a well for enhanced recovery or substance
disposal shall be in the original well, and shall contain complete information
required by the oil and gas inspector, including the following:
      (1)   A block map of the well site, showing all equipment to be used
thereat, location of pipelines, access road and distances from the well to any
and all fences, public roadways, and buildings within a radius of 330 feet;
      (2)   A block map of the project, showing the location of:
         (a)   All water supply wells within a one-fourth mile radius of each
injection or disposal well;
         (b)   All public water supply wells, disposal wells, injection wells,
producing wells, and plugged and abandoned wells, within the project area and
those sections immediately adjacent;
         (c)   All conduits; and
         (d)   Tank battery, pumping station and appurtenant equipment.
      (3)   All wells within the project area and those sections immediately
adjacent shall be indicated by status (e.g., plugged and abandoned, injection,
saltwater, oil and the like), and show the following additional information:
         (a)   Footage location (surface casing);
         (b)   Derrick floor and ground level elevation;
         (c)   Drilled total depth;
         (d)   Packer body total depth;
         (e)   Size, depth and quality of surface and production casing,
including zones from which casing has been removed;
         (f)   Location of all plugs, packers, cement plugs, tubing anchors and
the like, with the well bore;
         (g)   Depth and nature of all cement squeeze jobs;
         (h)   Formation name and depth of all open perforations in a producing
open hole;
         (i)   Volume and type of cement used on surface and production
strings; and
         (j)   Top of cement.
            1.   One copy of all electric, mechanical, sample and driller’s
logs, if available;
            2.   Fee and operation name for each well;
            3.   One copy of all cement bond logs and production logs;
            4.   One copy of all work performed on the well;
            5.   Copies of all information supplied to the Corporation
Commission, and the Commission’s approval of the project; and
            6.   Evidence that all wells in the area of the project and the
adjacent sections are adequately plugged.
   (C)   Recommendations. Upon the completion of the application required
hereunder, the oil and gas inspector shall have 30 business days to review same
and make a recommendation of approval or disapproval to the Mayor and Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   Operation permit; application information. Prior to placing any
enhanced recovery or substance disposal well into service, a permit to operate
such well shall be obtained from the oil and gas inspector. Every application
for a permit to operate such well shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Depth to static water level (hydrostatic head). Such data shall be
obtained by means of a method approved by the oil and gas inspector. Such data
shall be obtained not less than 48 hours after openings have been made through
the casing into the injection disposal zone or zones.
      (2)   Based on the static water level identified in division (D)(1) of
this section, maximum operating pressures and rates of injection shall be
established and maintained so as to prevent the hydraulic pressure level at a
radius of ten feet from the injection or disposal wells from rising above the
base elevation of treatable water. Such maximum operating pressures and
injection rates shall be noted on the permit. No injection or disposal well
will be permitted to operate if the well’s zone of influence will exceed the
above referenced limits.
   (E)   Application fee. A fee as set by the Town Board of Trustees by
resolution. This fee shall be submitted along with every application for a
permit to operate an injection or substance disposal well.
   (F)   Proof of pressure testing. Copies of Corporation Commission Form No.
1015, indicating successful pressure testing of each injection well at a
pressure greater than the maximum proposed for the project, or if no such form
No. 1015 has been filed and approved, then sufficient evidence of the
successful pressure testing of each injection well shall be filed with the oil
and gas inspector.
   (G)   Sealing of injection zone. Every such injection or disposal well shall
be constructed so as to seal the injection zone from the upper portion of the
casing. The annulus between the injection tubing and the casing shall be filled
with a noncorrosive fluid, then sealed and a one-fourth inch female fitting
with cutoff valve shall be attached so that the pressure in the annulus may be
measured by the oil and gas inspector by attaching a gauge having a one-fourth
inch male fitting. A pressure shall be maintained in the annulus sufficient to
monitor the fluids in the annulus. Any significant deviation from the
established pressure shall be cause to shut down the well, and may result in
cancellation of the operating permit, until such time as the established
pressure can once again be maintained.
   (H)   Injection lines. Injection lines shall be buried in a trench of a
depth no less than four feet and shall be pressure tested (static) annually at
a minimum of 150% of the pressure normally encountered at the injection pump
discharge for a period of hours to be fixed by the oil and gas inspector. The
oil and gas inspector shall be notified five days in advance of such test and
may supervise same. Test results shall be filed with the town upon completion.
   (I)   Testing for deleterious substances. Domestic and public water supply
wells located within a radius of one-fourth mile of any enhanced recovery or
disposal well shall be tested prior to beginning injection or disposal and
thereafter semiannually for the presence of deleterious substances, such as
chlorides, sulfates and dissolved solids. Such testing is the responsibility of
the permittee and at permittee’s expense, to be conducted by a person approved
by the oil and gas inspector. The oil and gas inspector shall be notified five
days in advance of such testing and may be present therefor. Test results shall
be filed with the town upon completion.
   (J)   Access road requirements. Access road requirements are as follows:
      (1)   The applicant shall construct, as necessary, concrete drive
approach to town standards, including radius as specified by the oil and gas
inspector, with proper curbs and gate;
      (2)   The operator will ensure that the road and well location has
adequate rock or other road materials to ensure that mud and debris are not
carried onto the public street; and
      (3)   The applicant shall not modify the access road to the well site
unless agreed to by the town oil and gas inspector.
   (K)   Repair street damage. The oil and gas inspector shall inspect the town
streets to determine what, if any, damage has been caused by the applicant’s
activity, and if in the opinion of the Town Engineer such damage has occurred,
the applicant shall repair such damages at his or her expense.
   (L)   Notice to oil and gas inspector. The applicant shall notify the office
of oil and gas inspector of the following:
      (1)   For coordinating a meeting five working days prior to moving onto
site location;
      (2)   Provide oil and gas inspector with copies of cement bond logs; and
      (3)   The oil and gas inspector shall be notified so that he or she may
inspect and be present to witness the running and cementing of pipe, the BOP
equipment and the placement and verification of cement.
   (M)   Lighting at well site. The operator will ensure any lighting installed
in conjunction with the well or its facilities will be directed in such a
manner that will not endanger any traffic or will not interrupt the privacy of
other property owners in the area.
   (N)   Costs of utility line moving or equipment repairs. The applicant shall
pay for any “up or down” charges of electrical and telephone lines that must be
moved for the well site. The applicant shall repair any underground services
(water, sewer or electric) that would be damaged by the equipment and work on
the well at his or her expense.
   (O)   Coated tubing. The operator will install only new internally lined or
coated tubing in an injection well.
   (P)   Location. The applicant shall ensure that the well or any aperture
will be set a minimum of 200 from any existing or proposed building line and
300 feet from any existing or proposed water wells in the area. Any existing
water wells within 300 feet must be plugged prior to conversion of well.
   (Q)   Disposal of mud, deleterious substances. The applicant or his or her
agent shall not dispose of mud by pumping it into the well bore or any annulus
of the well. In addition, the following will be complied with:
      (1)   A written plan for disposal of deleterious substances produced
during the drilling operations, and any deleterious substances produced as a
result of production from the well will be submitted to the oil and gas
inspector prior to commencing any operations in case the injection wells are
not operating. This plan shall include:
         (a)   The method of transportation;
         (b)   The name of the transporter or transport contractor for the
deleterious substances; and
         (c)   The name and location of the permitted disposal site.
      (2)   The permittee shall have available monthly reports for town
inspectors, upon request, of the amount of saltwater and other deleterious
substances produced, along with receipts for disposal of the same, provided
further that receipts are not applicable when injection wells are operating.
   (R)   Down hole log. Copies of down hole log shall be submitted to the town
for the well.
   (S)   Fence requirements. The applicant shall provide at all well sites
included in the water flood:
      (1)   Sight proof fencing not less than eight feet high with three
strands of barbed wire above for the security of the well site to include the
pumping unit and appurtenant facilities;
      (2)   The sight-proof fencing may be ornamental fencing or a wall fence
and must meet the requirements in division (S)(1) of this section; and
      (3)   The fence shall be constructed and maintained in good condition at
all times during the life of the well.
   (T)   Dikes. The well site and all storage tank areas will be diked to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Dikes erected to hold 150% of the capacity of all storage vessels
and the wellhead for leaks;
      (2)   Lines will be buried a minimum of 48 inches from the surface and be
inspected by the oil and gas inspector prior to being covered;
      (3)   A dike will be placed to separate the tanks from the separator and
heater treater where feasible; and
      (4)   The wellhead will be diked to contain minimal spillage.
   (U)   Site plan. The applicant shall provide the office of oil and gas
inspector a scale site plan of all equipment and lines, diking and fencing
prior to any one construction on tank batteries or well site for approval by
the town.
   (V)   Flow injection and pipeline specifications. The flow injection lines
and pipeline for the well shall meet the following specifications:
      (1)   Will be pressure tested a minimum of 150% of the pressure normally
encountered on the line for a period of 12 hours. The pressure test of the
injection lines to be repeated on an annual basis and be witnessed by the oil
and gas inspector; and
      (2)   The oil and gas inspector will be notified five days in advance of
such test.
   (W)   Well plugging plan. If the operator elects to plug this well or any
well in the water flood, he or she will submit in writing to the oil and gas
inspector three days prior to plugging the well, a plugging plan complete with
diagram showing casing, casing stubs, cement plugs, cement specifications and
well logs for approval by the town, to include:
      (1)   A 200-foot plug at bottom of casing 100 feet in/100 feet out; and
      (2)   A 50-foot plug in top of casing.
   (X)   Water samples. All of the freshwater wells located within one-fourth
mile of any of the proposed injection wells should be sampled prior to
commencement of injection. The water samples should be subjected to a complete
ion analysis. Water samples should be collected and transported to the lab by
the town’s oil and gas inspector. The applicant should bear the cost of the
analysis. These freshwater wells should be resampled at six-month intervals,
and each sample shall be analyzed.
   (Y)   Tubing-casing annulus testing. The tubing-casing annulus of each
injection well shall be pressure tested to 1,000 psi prior to the commencement
of injection and this test be repeated at 12-month intervals. The oil and gas
consulting engineer shall witness and approve these tests.
   (Z) Noncorrosive fluid required. A nontoxic, noncorrosive fluid should be
placed in the tubing-casing annulus of each injection well during recompletion
of the well.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.208 DISPOSAL OF SALTWATER.
   (A)   Responsibility for safe disposal. Every permittee under this chapter
shall be responsible for the safe disposal of salt water or other deleterious
substances which he or she may bring to the surface of the earth and shall
provide a plan for such disposal as required in §
150.194(A)(5) of this subchapter. Such disposal shall not result in pollution
of the waters of the town and shall not result in any other environmental
hazard and shall incorporate the best available techniques and equipment.
   (B)   Notify inspector of leakage or spillage. In the event of any leakage
or spillage of any pollutant or deleterious substance, whatever the cause
thereof, the permittee shall cause the oil and gas inspector to be notified
thereof promptly. If, in the judgment of the oil and gas inspector, such
leakage or spillage represents a potential environmental hazard, he or she may
issue whatever corrective orders he or she deems appropriate, and additionally
may require the appropriate testing of the surface and subsurface for pollutant
incursion, the cost of such test or tests to be borne by the permittee.
   (C)   Disposal in earthen pit prohibited. No person shall dispose of
saltwater or other deleterious substance in any lined or unlined earthen pit
within the town limits.
   (D)   Injecting into annulus. No person shall inject any salt water or other
deleterious substance into the annulus between the inside of the surface casing
string and the next inside casing string, except when the bottom of the
properly cemented surface casing extends 200 feet or more through or into a
continuous impermeable clay barrier below the base of treatable water.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.209 SURFACE CASING.
   (A)   Logs identifying base of treatable water. Surface casing shall be set
a minimum of 200 feet below the deepest encounter of treatable water found in
eight sections adjacent to the section in which the well is located. Logs which
identify the base of treatable water shall be run in the surface hole before
the surface pipe is set. A copy of such logs shall be filed with the oil and
gas inspector, or; surface casing may be set without the above required
logging, provided the applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the oil
and gas inspector that the bottom of the surface casing will extend through or
into at least 200 feet of continuous impermeable clay barrier below the base of
treatable water, is properly cemented and cement bond logs run with the quality
of the cement bond approved by the oil and gas inspector. Surface pipe shall
have a centralizer on the shoe joint, and centralizers within 50 feet of the
shoe joint, and centralizer no more than 200 feet apart above the second
centralizer.
   (B)   Cementing surface pipe. Surface pipe shall be cemented by attempting
to circulate good cement to surface by normal displacement practices. If cement
cannot be circulated to surface due to washed out hole or lost circulation, the
existing cement shall not be over-displaced, and a plug shall be left in the
bottom of the casing string to be drilled out once the surface is set. The
remaining uncemented annular space will then be cemented until good cement is
circulated to surface. No further digging shall be accomplished until the
cement has set for at least 24 hours or, in the alternative, until samples of
the cement have passed independent laboratory tests satisfactory to the oil and
gas inspector.
   (C)   Existing well. Where an existing well is to be used as an injection or
disposal site, the existing casing and cement shall be of such integrity and
depth as to adequately and safely isolate fresh water producing zones from the
seepage or bleeding of injection fluids or disposants. Where additional
protective operations are undertaken to comply with this division (C), the oil
and gas inspector shall be notified thereof sufficiently in advance in order
for to be present for such operations.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.210 ABANDONED WELLS, PLUGGING.
   (A)   Whenever any well is abandoned it shall be the obligation of the
permittee and the operator of the well to set a 200-foot cement plug in the
bottom of the surface casing, with the bottom of the plug 100 feet below the
surface casing section and to set a 50-foot cement plug in the top of the
surface casing.
   (B)   No surface or conductor string of casing may be pulled or removed from
a well. During initial abandonment operations it will be the obligation of the
permittee and operator to flood the well with mud-laden fluid weighing not less
than nine pounds per gallon, and to circulate this mud until stabilized, and
the well shall be kept filled to the top with mud-laden fluid of the weight
herein specified at all times; mud-laden fluid of the above specifications will
be left in the well bore below and between cement plugs. Any additional
provisions or precautionary measures prescribed by the state or the Corporation
Commission of the state in connection with the abandonment and plugging of a
well shall be complied with by the permittee.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.211 WELL LOCATION.
   No permit shall be issued for the drilling of an original well or the
reentry of an abandoned well at any location which is nearer than 200 feet of
any permanent residence or commercial building, or which is closer than 300
feet to a producing fresh water well.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.212 FENCES.
   (A)   Any person who completes any well as a producer shall have the
obligation to enclose the well, together with its surface facilities, by a
fence sufficiently high and properly built so as to ordinarily keep persons and
animals out of the enclosure with all gates thereto to be kept locked when the
permittee or his or her employees are not within the enclosure. Provided, that
in nonplatted areas the oil and gas inspector, at his or her discretion, may
waive the requirement of any fence or may designate the type of fence to be
erected.
   (B)   Fences must be kept locked at all times workers of permittee are not
present; a duplicate set of keys to the lock shall be filed with the oil and
gas inspector.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.213 NOISE AND OTHER NUISANCES.
   (A)   All oil operations, drilling and production operations shall be
conducted in such a manner as to eliminate, as far as practicable, dust, noise,
vibration or noxious odors, and shall be in accordance with the best accepted
practices incident to exploration for, drilling for, and production of, oil,
gas and other hydrocarbon substances.
   (B)   Proven technological improvements in exploration, drilling and
production methods shall be adopted as they become, from time to time,
available, if capable of reducing factors of nuisance and annoyance.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.214 MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES.
   All lease equipment shall be painted and maintained in a good state of
appearance, and shall have posted in a prominent place a metal sign no less
than two feet square in area upon which the following information shall be
conspicuous: permittee’s name; lease name; location of the drill site by
reference to the United States survey; identifying number of the permit issued
by the town.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.215 STORAGE TANKS AND SEPARATORS.
   (A)   Limitations. Crude oil storage tanks shall not be constructed,
operated or used except to the extent of two steel tanks for oil storage, not
exceeding 500 barrels capacity each and so constructed and maintained as to be
vapor tight. Provided, that additional tankage may be approved by the oil and
gas inspector.
   (B)   Specifications. A permittee may use, construct and operate a steel
conventional separator and such other steel tanks and appurtenances as are
necessary for treating oil with each of such facilities to be so constructed
and maintained as to be vapor tight. Each oil, gas separator shall be equipped
with both a regulation pressure-relief safety valve and a bursting head.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.216 FIRE PREVENTION.
   Adequate firefighting apparatus and supplies approved by the Town Fire
Department shall be maintained on the drilling site at all times during
drilling and production operations. All machinery, equipment and installations
on all drilling sites within the town limits shall conform with such
requirements as may from time to time be issued by the Fire Department.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.217 PITS.
   Steel mud or circulating pits shall be used. Such pits and contents shall be
removed from the premises and the drilling site within 15 days after completion
of the well. Earthen pits will be allowed only as temporary emergency pits or
as catch basins. Catch basin pits shall be used only for the purpose of
catching any deleterious substance runoff and shall be not greater than 320
cubic feet. Such catch basin will be equipped with a liquid level activated
pump designed to keep fluids pumped out of such catch basin pit. All such
earthen pits must be lined and approved in writing by the oil and gas
inspector. Emergency pits shall be emptied as soon as the emergency is over,
and all such pits shall be emptied and then leveled within 15 days after
completion of the well.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.218 RETAINING WALLS.
   (A)   Low side of well site. An earthen retaining wall of adequate size for
the terrain involved will be constructed on the low side of the well site in
the event the well site is located on sloping or unlevel ground. The top of the
retaining wall shall be at least level with the top of the base of the
Christmas tree or other wellhead connections on any completed well, or at least
level with the ground at the point where surface casing is set in the well when
drilling.
   (B)   High side of well site. An earthen diversion wall of adequate size for
the terrain involved shall be constructed on the high side of the well site in
the event the well site is located on sloping or unlevel ground. The diversion
wall will be of sufficient height and strength so as to divert runoff waters
around the well site.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.219 MOTIVE POWER.
   Motive power for all well pumping equipment shall be electricity unless
otherwise approved by the oil and gas inspector.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.220 DERRICK AND RIG.
   (A)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to use or operate in
connection with the drilling, reentry or reworking of any well within the town,
any wooden derrick or any steam powered rig, and all engines shall be equipped
with adequate mufflers approved by the oil and gas inspector.
   (B)   Permitting any drilling rig or derrick to remain on the premises or
drilling site for a period of longer than 60 days after completion or
abandonment of a well is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.221 DRILLING OPERATION, EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   All drilling, reentry and operations at any well performed under
this subchapter shall be conducted in accordance with the best practices of the
reasonably prudent operator.
      (2)   All casing, valves, and blowout preventers, drilling fluid, tubing,
Braden head, Christmas tree and wellhead connections shall be of a type and
quality consistent with the best practices of such reasonably prudent operator.
      (3)   Setting and cementing casing and running drill stem tests shall be
performed in a manner and at a time consistent with the best practices of such
reasonably prudent operator.
   (B)   Any permittee under this chapter shall observe and follow the
recommendations or regulations of the American Petroleum Institute and the
corporation commission, except in those instances that are specifically
addressed by this subchapter. A copy of all logs associated with the surface
casing shall be filed with the oil and gas inspector.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.222 MOVING OF DRILLING RIG.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to move or cause to be moved
the drilling rig from a well until the hole has been cased or properly plugged
unless written permission to do so is obtained from the oil and gas inspector.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.223 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   No well shall be drilled, and no permit shall be issued for any well to be
drilled, at any location which is within any of the streets or alleys of the
town; and no street or alley shall be blocked or encumbered or closed in any
drilling or production operation except with the written approval of the oil
and gas inspector, and then only temporarily.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.224 FLARING OF GAS.
   All produced gas shall either be sold or flared with the flaring procedure
being approved by the oil and gas inspector and the Town Fire Chief.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.225 FRACTURE AND ACIDIZING.
   In the completion of oil and gas, injection, disposal or service well, where
acidizing or fracturing processes are used, no oil, gas or other deleterious
substances or pollutants shall be permitted to pollute any surface or
subsurface fresh waters.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.226 SWABBING AND BAILING.
   In swabbing, bailing or purging a well, all deleterious substances removed
from the bore hole shall be placed in appropriate tanks, and no substances
shall be permitted to, pollute any surface or subsurface fresh waters.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.227 RUPTURE IN SURFACE CASING.
   In the event a rupture, break or opening occurs in the surface or production
casing, the permittee or the operator or drilling contractor shall take
immediate action to repair it, and shall report the incident to the oil and gas
inspector promptly.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.228 DEPOSITING OIL PRODUCTS.
   No person shall deposit, drain or divert into or upon any public highway,
street or alley, drainage ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter, paving, creek,
river, lake or lagoon, any oil or oily liquid with petroleum content or any
mud, rotary mud, sand, water or salt water, or in any manner permit by seepage,
overflow, deliberate release or otherwise, any of such substances to escape
from any property owned, leased or controlled by such person and flow or be
carried into or upon any public highway, street or alley, drainage ditch, storm
drain, sewer, gutter, paving, creek, river, lake or lagoon, within the town.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.229 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   Persons drilling, operating or maintaining any well shall use all necessary
care and take all precautions which shall be reasonably necessary under the
circumstances to protect the public. The provisions of this subchapter shall be
deemed to be the minimum requirements for the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare, and compliance with the terms hereof shall not be
deemed to relieve any persons of any additional duty imposed by law.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.230 WATER FOR MUDS.
   In the event a fresh water supply well is drilled to provide water for
drilling muds, the depth of such well shall not be greater than 200 feet below
surface. Upon the completion of operations for which such well is required, the
town shall have the right to purchase the well at a price determinable by the
cost of completion. If the town, in a proper case, does not make such purchase,
such well shall be properly plugged after notice of intention to so plug is
provided the oil and gas inspector, who may supervise the operation.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.231 INGRESS AND EGRESS.
   Lease roads shall be maintained in such a manner as to safely and
comfortably allow for ingress and egress of town or state personnel traveling
in a common passenger motor vehicle.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.232 MOVEMENT OF HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall move or cause to be moved, over, upon or across any paving
or paved street, or alley, within the town, any piece of machinery of extreme
weight which may crack or injure such pavement, except as herein provided.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.233 PURCHASE OF WELL SITES BY TOWN.
   If any well is to be abandoned, or has otherwise been determined by the
permittee to be useless for his or her purposes, the permittee shall give
notice to the town thereof, and, in a proper case, the town shall have the
right, if it so chooses, to acquire the well or any portion thereof for use as
a fresh water supply well, at a price determinable by its costs to the
permittee. No well shall be plugged before the town has first, in writing,
declined to obtain such well as a source of fresh water, any other provision of
this chapter notwithstanding.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.234 ORDER TO CEASE OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Authority to order remedial action. If the oil and gas inspector finds
that, in his or her judgment, a hazard to life or natural resources exists, he
or she shall order immediate rectification of the cause. If the permittee takes
no immediate measure to reduce the hazard, or if the situation be so perilous
as to constitute an imminent threat to safety, then, in either of these events,
he or she may order the prompt cessation of activity and, if necessary, the
clearance of the premises.
   (B)   Apply to Mayor for hearing.
      (1)   The oil and gas inspector shall apply to the Mayor for a hearing
upon such order, which hearing shall be held no longer than 24 hours after the
issuance of the order by the oil and gas inspector. The Mayor shall determine
if proper cause existed, and, if not, shall order the permittee’s activity to
resume without delay.
      (2)   If the Mayor determines that proper cause did exist for the order
to cease activity to issue, then he or she shall make whatever ruling is proper
to assure rectification of the cause of the peril. Such ruling and compliance
with it by the permittee shall not be construed to absolve the permittee of any
liability for any violation of this chapter or for any damage or injury caused
thereby.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.235 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any permittee aggrieved by any order, directive or ruling issued by
the oil and gas inspector, or by any ruling by the Mayor, may appeal the same
to the Town Board of Trustees which shall hear the matter at its next scheduled
meeting. The lodging of such appeal shall not stay the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, upon hearing the matter, may issue whatever
ruling or order is appropriate, provided that such ruling or order be in
keeping with the spirit and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
SUPPLEMENTAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.250 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The building and construction standards, specifications and guidelines
of the Veterans Administration and Federal Housing Administration, as presently
promulgated and as amended hereafter, are hereby adopted by reference for the
purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration
and use of residential structures and shall apply to all construction standards
applicable by the town.
   (B)   At least one copy of said standards, specifications and guidelines is
on file and available for inspection in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.251 SMOKE DETECTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued for construction of any structure
designed for human occupancy unless the plans for same include a smoke
detection device to be placed at a location therein which will enable said
device to detect smoke at the earliest possible moment.
      (2)   Said device will comply with the standards set forth in the
International Fire Code, latest edition as adopted by the Oklahoma Uniform
Building Code Commission. No variance shall be allowed which will defeat this
section.
   (B)   Prohibited occupancy. The Town Administrator shall have the power to
prohibit occupancy by persons of any structures constructed pursuant to the
building regulations if said structure is not equipped with a smoke detection
device which is in good working order at the time of inspection. Said occupancy
may be prohibited until such time as said device is demonstrated to perform its
designed purpose.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.252 CANOPIES AND AWNINGS; PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Requirements. A canopy or awning or similar structure, hereinafter
referred to as “canopy”, may be constructed on any commercial structure which
abuts a public right-of-way, provided that said canopy or awning or other
canopy complies with the following requirements.
      (1)   Projection. Said canopy may project one-half the width of any
existing sidewalk or no more than six feet, whichever is less, and in no event
shall any such canopy project into any alley or space used as a fire lane.
      (2)   Height. The bottom edge of such canopy shall be no less than seven
feet from the ground or pavement beneath it.
      (3)   Vertical supports. No vertical supports shall be used in the
construction of said canopy which extend beneath or above the same.
      (4)   Permanence; compliance with ordinances. All such canopies shall be
permanent in nature and shall comply with all fire ordinances now existing or
which may be adopted in the future.
   (B)   Applicability. This section shall govern the construction and
maintenance of any awning, canopy or device within the town limits.
   (C)   Permit required. A building permit shall be required for the
construction of any such canopy and the Town Administrator shall have the power
to review plans for said canopies and make changes deemed necessary to render
the completed canopy safe; provided, that upon completion of construction of
said canopy, the Town Administrator shall have the power to order any further
modifications which he or she deems necessary for the protection of the health,
welfare and safety of the public at large.
   (D)   Permit fee. The fee shall be set by a resolution of the Board of
Trustees. A current copy of the fee schedule shall be kept in the office of the
Town Clerk.
   (E)   Removal of canopy. The town shall have the power to remove or have
removed any such canopy, at the owner’s expense, when the same is deemed to be
detrimental to the public interest, after ten days’ notice to said owner.
   (F)   Nuisance. Any such canopy which does not conform to the requirements
set forth herein is hereby declared to be a “public nuisance” as defined in
this code.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Building Code (§§
150.001 through
150.005).
      (1)   Penalty imposed. Any person, firm or corporation who shall engage
in any business, trade or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate, or
certificate of registration is required by this chapter, without having a valid
license, permit, certificate, or certificate of registration as required, or
who shall fail to do anything required by this chapter or the code adopted in
this chapter, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of this chapter or
the code adopted in this chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or
order made by any of the officers provided for in this chapter shall be guilty
of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Relief in courts. No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this
chapter shall interfere with the right of the town also to apply to the proper
courts of the state for a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action
against such person, firm or corporation.
      (3)   Violation by corporate officers and agents. Violation of any of the
terms or provisions of this title by any corporation or association shall
subject the officers and agents actively in charge of the business of such
corporation, or association, to the penalty herein provided.
   (C)   Plumbing Code (§§
150.020 through
150.035). See division (B) of this section for penalty provisions.
   (D)   Electrical Code (§§
150.050 through
150.067). See division (B) of this section for penalty provisions.
   (E)   Mechanical Code (§§
150.080 through
150.089. See division (B) of this section for penalty provisions.
   (F)   Fuel Gas Code (§§
150.100 through
150.106). See division (B) of this section for penalty provisions.
   (G)   Certificates of occupancy (§§
150.120 through
150.126). The permit, or permits, authorized by §§
150.120 through
150.126 shall be provided through the town offices and the office of the
building inspector upon payment of the proper fees and the approval of the
building inspector as set forth herein, and any person who fails to comply with
the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense against the town
and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the maximum penalty provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and each day shall be a separate offense.
   (H)   Moving building (§§
150.140 through
150.152). Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of §§
150.140 through
150.152, or any legal order or regulation made pursuant thereto, may be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as set forth
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (I)   Factory-built structures and travel trailers (§§
150.165 through
150.177). Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of §§
150.165 through
150.177, or any legal order or regulation made pursuant thereto, may be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as set forth
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (J)   Oil and gas drilling (§§
150.190 through
150.235).
      (1)   Violation; penalty. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
violate or neglect to comply with §§
150.190 through
150.235 irrespective of whether or not the verbiage of each section hereof
contains the specific language that such violation or neglect is unlawful and
is an offense. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, or any of the provisions of a drilling and operating permit issued
pursuant hereto, or any condition of the bond filed by the permittee pursuant
to this chapter, or who shall neglect to comply with the terms hereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and the violation of each separate provision
of this chapter, and of the permit, and of the bond, shall be considered a
separate offense, and each day’s violation of each separate provision thereof
shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   Revocation of permit.
         (a)   In addition to the foregoing penalties, it is further provided
that the Town Board of Trustees at any regular or special sessions or meeting
thereof, may, provided ten days’ notice has been given to the permittee that
revocation is to be considered at such meeting, revoke or suspend any permit
issued under this chapter and under which drilling or producing operations are
being conducted in the event the permittee thereof has violated any provision
of the permit, the bond, or this chapter.
         (b)   In the event the permit be revoked, the permittee may make
application to the oil and gas inspector for reissuance of such permit, and the
action of the town thereon shall be final. Any continuing offense shall be
considered a public nuisance, the remedies for which under law shall be in
addition to those hereinbefore enumerated.
   (K)   Supplemental building regulations (§§
150.250 through
150.252). Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of §§
150.250 through
150.252, or any legal order or regulation made pursuant thereto, may be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as set forth
in §
10.99 of this code or ordinances.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND
PUBLIC WAYS
Section
Use and Obstruction
   
151.01   Trimming trees and shrubbery
   
151.02   Injuring trees and shrubbery
   
151.03   Obstruction of sidewalks and streets
   
151.04   Depositing trash upon streets or sidewalks
   
151.05   Playing on sidewalks and in streets
   
151.06   Water from filling stations and businesses
   
151.07   Sidewalk maintenance
Cuts in Streets and Sidewalks
   
151.20   Cutting streets or sidewalks
   
151.21   Permits
   
151.22   Maintenance bond
   
151.23   Cutting of pavement
   
151.24   Backfilling trenches; service, new subdivisions
   
151.25   Danger signals
   
151.26   Protection of new pavement
   
151.27   Removal of street or sidewalk
 
   
151.99   Penalty
USE AND OBSTRUCTION
§ 151.01 TRIMMING TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   Trimming required. The owner of any premises abutting on any street of
this town shall trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between
the sidewalks and the roadway of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery
growing on any part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or
alley, in such manner that the boughs or limbs thereof will not obstruct free
and convenient passage and travel along the sidewalks, streets and alleys. When
such premises are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant
shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinbefore required
of the owner. Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest
branches or foliage will not be lower than 14 feet above the roadway of a
street or alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
   (B)   Penalty. Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses, or neglects to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in division (A) of this section, after
receiving five days’ notice from the town to do so, shall be guilty of an
offense against the town. Every day on which the owner or occupant fails,
refuses or neglects to trim such trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of
the five days’ notice, shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1A-1) (Ord. 273, passed 2-3-1994) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 INJURING TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the town; provided, that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 7-1A-2) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   (A)   Merchandise. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
place upon or permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets or
alleys of the town any goods, wares, articles of merchandise, or any other
obstruction, and leave same thereon.
   (B)   Undue obstruction. It is unlawful for any person to use or obstruct
the sidewalks of the town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with
pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets or alleys of the
town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking
thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-1A-3) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 DEPOSITING TRASH UPON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to deposit, throw, or sweep into or upon the
streets, alleys, parkings or sidewalks of the town any paper, rubbish, grass,
weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes, or other refuse of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 7-1A-4) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 PLAYING ON SIDEWALKS AND IN STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on the sidewalks or upon the main
traveled portion of the streets and alleys of the town, except as may be
authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-1A-5) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND BUSINESSES.
   It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place
of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease
or other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk,
parking, street, alley or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 7-1A-6) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE.
   The owner or other person in charge of real property which adjoins a
sidewalk or sidewalk area shall keep the adjoining sidewalk or sidewalk area in
good condition and safe for pedestrian use; and it is unlawful for such owner
or person in charge to fail to do so.
(Prior Code, § 7-1A-7) Penalty, see §
151.99
CUTS IN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 151.20 CUTTING STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cut, alter, mutilate or change in any
manner or for any purpose any paved or traveled portion of any street or alley,
or any curb, gutter, catch basin, or any other appurtenance of any street or
alley or any sidewalk in the town, without first securing a permit from the
Town Clerk to make such cut, alteration or change; provided this requirement
shall not apply to any person repairing or replacing a sidewalk under a
sidewalk permit, provided such person changes only the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-1) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 PERMITS.
   (A)   Application and fee. Any person desiring to cut, alter, mutilate or
change in any manner for any purpose any paved or traveled portion of any
street or alley, or any curb, gutter, catch basin, or any other appurtenance of
any street or alley, shall apply to the Town Clerk for a permit therefor, and
pay to the Town Clerk the permit fee required as set forth in the Appendix of
Fines and Fees.
   (B)   Issuance of permit. Upon the payment of said fee, the Town Clerk shall
issue to such applicant a permit in accordance with the application therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-2)
§ 151.22 MAINTENANCE BOND.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit to any person to cut any street or roadway
within the town limits, such person shall post with the town a one year
maintenance bond running to the town, and to be in full force and effect
beginning with the day said road or street shall have been restored to its
original condition by such applicant in the manner required by ordinance, and
said bond continuing in force for one year after said street has been accepted
by said town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-3)
§ 151.23 CUTTING OF PAVEMENT.
   Previous to the removal of pavement for the installation or repair of
subsurface utilities, all sides of the proposed cut shall be sawed with an
approved concrete saw to a depth of not less than one and one-half inches.
Where it is necessary to cut paving for emergency repairs, paving may be
removed without sawing, provided any damaged sections of paving are removed
prior to making of repairs; and if it is further necessary to remove additional
paving, the sawing process shall be repeated, covering the outer edges of the
pavement to be replaced and the replacement of all paving cut shall be done by
the applicant at his or her cost, but under the direction supervision of the
Town Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-4)
§ 151.24 BACKFILLING TRENCHES; SERVICE, NEW SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Standards. All trenches excavated across or along any paved street or
alley and across any traveled portion of unpaved streets or alleys shall be
backfilled and compacted to the same density as the existing soil adjacent to
the side of the trench, but shall not be less than 90% standard proctor
density; provided the excavated materials consist of soil that can be readily
compacted at the optimum moisture. If the excavated material consists of a
majority of clay or silt and contains an excess of moisture, such excavated
material shall be removed from the site of the work and the trench filled with
sand or other materials that will meet the soil classification of A-2 or
better. If the backfilling compaction is removed and hauled from the job site,
the trenches shall be refilled with material as specified above. All trenches
excavated along unpaved streets may be backfilled and compacted by flooding,
provided that an excessive water pressure is not used and that the method of
flooding to be used meets with the approval of the Town Administrator.
   (B)   Service lines. All service lines on the opposite side of the street
from the main must be in place, backfilled and compacted before street
surfacing is laid.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-5)
§ 151.25 DANGER SIGNALS.
   (A)   Required. It shall be the duty of any person doing any type of
constructing or excavating work upon or adjacent to any street, alley, sidewalk
or public ground in the town to maintain substantial guardrails and barriers
around such work or excavation in such street, alley or walk. Similar barriers
shall be placed around any materials or equipment with which contact would be
dangerous to pedestrians, animals or vehicles. It shall be the duty of all such
persons to display and maintain lighted lanterns with red globes, lights or
lighted signal flares from sundown to sunup during the time such work,
excavation, or obstruction exists. Such lanterns, flares, or lights shall be of
a type approved by the Town Administrator, and be placed on or sufficiently
near such place in a number and manner sufficient to warn the traveling public
from any direction; and if such obstruction is more than ten feet long, one of
such danger signals shall be placed at each end and additional ones placed
along such obstruction not more than 20 feet apart. It is an offense for any
person to fail to provide such safeguards, and each day of such omission
constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   Removal. It is unlawful for any person to remove or destroy any
barrier or danger signal placed or erected under the provisions of division (A)
of this section, unless such act is done at the direction of the person in
charge of such work or the Town Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-6) Penalty, see §
151.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of barricades, see §
134.07
§ 151.26 PROTECTION OF NEW PAVEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of any person constructing a sidewalk, curb or street
or alley pavement in the town to place barriers around such work sufficient to
prevent any traveling upon the same until it is ready to use. It is unlawful
for any person to remove, displace, tear down or destroy any barricades placed
upon or along the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the town for the protection
of any pavements or sidewalks while they are in the course of construction and
before they are opened for traffic; and it is unlawful for any person or
persons to enter into or upon such street, pavement or sidewalk, or to permit
any person or thing under their control to do so before such pavement, street,
or sidewalk is opened for general traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-7)
§ 151.27 REMOVAL OF STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   It is unlawful for any person to dig, remove or carry away any earth, sand,
rock, gravel, or sod, or cut out any trees or bush from any street, alley, land
or other public thoroughfare, to remove any portion of any sidewalk or any
support from any sidewalk or crossing, or to loosen or remove any plank,
stringer or other support from any culvert or bridge, without permission of the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-8) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of §§
151.01 through
151.07 or any legal order or regulation made pursuant thereto shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine as
set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1A-8)
   (C)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of §§
150.020 through
150.027 or any legal order or regulation made pursuant thereto shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine as
set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1B-9)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
   
152.002   Scope
   
152.003   Statement of purpose
   
152.004   Finding of fact
   
152.005   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.006   Interpretation
   
152.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.008   Coordination with building codes
   
152.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.010   Definitions
Flood Hazard Areas
   
152.025   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.026   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
Floodplain Administrator
   
152.040   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.041   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.042   Assistance in times of disaster
Floodplain Development Permits, Fees, Elevation
Certificates and Letters of Change
   
152.055   Establishment of development permit
   
152.056   Permit fee
   
152.057   Standards for permit issuance
   
152.058   Permit expiration
   
152.059   Permit revocation
   
152.060   Elevation certificate
   
152.061   Letter of map amendment or revision
   
152.062   Nonconforming uses and structures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.075   General standards
   
152.076   Specific standards
   
152.077   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.078   Floodways
   
152.079   Variance procedures
   
152.080   Severability
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Oklahoma has in the Oklahoma Floodplain
Management Act, 82 O.S. §§ 1601 through 1620.1, delegated the responsibility of
local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood
losses. Therefore, the Board of Trustees of the town does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.002 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all development that is
wholly within, partially within, or in contact with any area of special flood
hazard, including, but not limited to, the subdivision of land; filling,
grading and any other site improvements and utility installations;
construction, alteration, remodeling, enlargement, replacement, repair,
relocation or demolition of any building or structure; placement installation
of manufactured homes; storage of hazardous materials; installation or
replacement of tanks; placement of temporary structures and temporary storage
of materials; and installation of swimming pools, storm shelters, fences,
accessory buildings, utility and miscellaneous structures.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter also apply to development related to
critical facilities in areas subject to inundation by flooding and to
development and redevelopment of land that could create flood hazard, even if
such development is located outside of a defined area of special flood hazard.
   (C)   Areas of land proposed for development or redevelopment but lacking
data necessary to determine whether the proposed development will be reasonably
safe from flooding, whether inside or outside of an area of special flood
hazard, are subject to the requirements of this chapter related to provision of
detailed data and compliance with mapping and study standards.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Reduce the potential for loss of human life and detriment to public
health and safety caused by flooding;
   (B)   Minimize unnecessary disruption of commerce and interruption of public
services during times of flooding;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Require the use of appropriate construction practices in order to
prevent or minimize future flood damage;
   (E)   Manage filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion potential;
   (F)   Minimize the need for future of expenditure of public funds for flood
control projects and for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding;
   (G)   Manage the alteration of flood hazard areas and stream channels to
minimize the impact of development on the natural and beneficial functions of
the floodplain;
   (H)   Maintain a stable community by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future
blighted conditions resulting from flood damage and to encourage responsible
redevelopment of blighted conditions within flood hazard areas; and
   (I)   Minimize damage to public and private facilities, utilities and
infrastructure; and ensure that planning and construction of all development
within areas of flood hazard addresses and mitigates potential adverse impacts
on properties throughout the watershed and entire community.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.004 FINDING OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.005 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters, or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.006 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.007 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another chapter, easement, covenant or
deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.008 COORDINATION WITH BUILDING CODES.
   This chapter is intended to be administered and enforced in conjunction with
the provisions of the town’s adopted building codes, which contain certain
provisions that apply to the design and construction of buildings and
structures in flood hazard areas. Unless otherwise specified herein, the term
ADOPTED BUILDING CODES refers to the currently adopted versions of the
International Building Code, International Mechanical Code, International
Plumbing Code, International Fuel Gas Code, International Fire Code,
International Private Sewage Disposal Code, International Property Maintenance
Code and National Electrical Code, together with any local modifications,
amendments and adopted appendices. Without amendment, these codes contain
provisions sufficient to meet the minimum standards for community participation
in the National Flood Insurance Program. Every effort has been made to ensure
that these codes have been modified to reflect certain higher regulatory
standards contained within this chapter. In the event of a conflict between a
higher regulatory standard contained within this chapter and a minimum standard
provision contained within the town’s adopted building codes, the higher
regulatory standard shall be applied.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Structures which are on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure, but not limited to garages and storage sheds.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance, often referred to as the 100-year flood,
based on future conditions hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH or VO zone on a
community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed
rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface
elevation of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. A person accredited by the Board and designated by
the Town Administrator to administer and implement laws and regulations
relating to the management of the floodplains.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. The official document issued by the
Floodplain Administrator which authorizes performance of a specific development
at a certain location within an area of special flood hazard.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See definition of FLOODING.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.
      (1)   Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health
regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance,
grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and other applications of
police power.
      (2)   The term describes such state or local regulations, in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM.
      (1)   Those physical structural works for which funds have been
authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding.
      (2)   Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams,
reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior or;
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations, being 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical
Datum (NAVD) of 1988, to which base flood elevations shown on a community’s
flood insurance rate map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition
would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements, see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations, being 44 C.F.R. § 60.6.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10) or
(d)(3) of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations, being 44 C.F.R. §
60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10) or (d)(3), is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in floodplains.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
§ 152.025 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   The chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard, also known as
the 1% annual chance floodplain, within the jurisdiction of the town. Mapping
standards contained within this chapter shall apply to all areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.026 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
“The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) 40073CV000C dated June 7, 2019, with
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) 40073CIND0C dated June 7, 2019
and 40073C0185D dated August 19, 2010” are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
§ 152.040 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Administrator shall, in writing, designate a Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R. (Code of Federal Regulations, Emergency
Management and Assistance - National Flood Insurance Program Regulations)
pertaining to floodplain management.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.041 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the Oklahoma Water Resources Board (OWRB), prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
152.026 of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
flood hazard reduction regulations of this chapter;
   (I)   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601
through 1620, as amended;
   (J)   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures in
the community of the town determine if the residential and nonresidential
structures and manufactured homes have been substantially damaged and enforce
the substantial improvement requirement; and
   (K)   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a decision
of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.042 ASSISTANCE IN TIMES OF DISASTER.
   In times of flooding or other disaster impacting structures within an area
of special flood hazard, the Floodplain Administrator, with approval of the
Town Administrator, is authorized to request and accept assistance from any
qualified source, including floodplain administrators and building officials
from other communities, staff from federal and state agencies including the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and Oklahoma Water Resources Board, and
members of disaster relief organizations including the Oklahoma Floodplain
Managers Association’s Disaster Response Team.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS, FEES, ELEVATION CERTIFICATES AND LETTERS OF
CHANGE
§ 152.055 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A floodplain development permit is hereby established.
   (B)   No development within an area of special flood hazard shall occur
until the property owner and entity intending to complete the work have applied
for such a permit and such a permit has been issued.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.056 PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   The fee shall be set by a resolution of the Board of Trustees. A
current copy of the fee schedule shall be kept in the office of the Town Clerk.
Such fees shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Notice of intent fee;
      (2)   Floodplain development permit application review;
      (3)   Floodplain development permit fee;
      (4)   Inspection fee per inspection; and
      (5)   Variance request filing fee.
   (B)   Exemption: there shall be no permit fee shall be collected for
development limited to regular channel maintenance.
   (C)   For any permit application submitted after work has begun, a penalty
fee equal to three times the fee that would otherwise be applicable shall be
collected, provided that this penalty fee may be waived, and the originally
applicable fee collected in the event that the applicant demonstrates that the
error was made in good faith and was not fraudulent or habitual in nature.
   (D)   For good cause, the Town Administrator, at the direction of the Board
of Trustees, may waive or reduce the permit fee for a particular permit.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.057 STANDARDS FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit must be made on the
forms provided by the Floodplain Administrator. Permit applications must be
completed in full and must include all documentation needed to demonstrate
compliance with the regulations contained within this chapter. At minimum the
following information will be required:
      (1)   A site plan drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions and
elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures,
including the placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the
foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard;
      (2)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (3)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (4)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
152.076;
      (5)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (6)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
152.041.
   (B)   The documentation required will differ based on the nature of the
proposed development, and the determination as to what documentation is
required will be made by the Floodplain Administrator. For any type of
development, the Floodplain Administrator may require submission of a detailed
site plan prepared by an appropriate design professional that documents the
location of any proposed development in relation to the location of floodways,
floodplain zones and any natural or human-made feature that may have a bearing
on the issuance of a floodplain development permit. The Floodplain
Administrator may also require the submission of topographic data to support a
permit application.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator may, at any time, choose to rely on the
best available data in order to make a decision regarding approval or denial of
a permit application. Additionally, any permit application may be approved with
conditions or restrictions. These conditions or restrictions shall be
considered accepted by the applicant upon issuance of the permit and
commencement of work. Failure to comply with such conditions or restrictions
invalidates the permit and is considered to be a violation subject to criminal
prosecution and/or administrative action.
   (D)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.058 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   Floodplain development permits are valid for 180 days. Permits may be
extended by the Floodplain Administrator in cases where active work is
occurring on a regular basis, but the project has not yet been completed.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.059 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   After a permit has been issued, the Floodplain Administrator may cause a
permit to be revoked, or may cause a permit to be suspended pending submission
of additional information, or may cause a permit to be modified or restricted,
under any of the following circumstances:
   (A)   It is determined, based on the best available data, that continuation
of the permitted development will result in a condition not reasonably safe
from flooding or will result in adverse impacts to other properties anywhere in
the watershed;
   (B)   It is determined that the permit was issued based on the submission of
inaccurate, misleading or incomplete information; and
   (C)   It is determined that the permit was issued in error.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.060 ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Any development resulting in a new or substantially improved structure
or addition requires submission of one or more elevation certificates.
   (B)   Elevation certificates must be completed on the forms authorized and
published by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and must bear the seal of
an appropriate design professional. Elevation certificates must be completed
using a datum matching the datum used in the adopted flood insurance study.
Base flood elevations noted on submitted elevation certificates must be based
on the best available data and are subject to review and approval by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   For any new or substantially improved structure or addition thereto
other than an accessory structure, an elevation certificate showing the
proposed elevations of the lowest finished floor and highest adjacent grade for
the proposed structure must be submitted with the application for a floodplain
development permit (“design elevation certificate”). Before a new or
substantially improved structure or addition may be occupied, an elevation
certificate based on as-built conditions must be submitted to the Floodplain
Administrator (“as-built elevation certificate”). It is recommended that an
additional elevation certificate be completed and submitted after finished
grade is established and foundation forms have been set in order to verify that
the lowest finished floor elevation will conform to that submitted on the
design elevation certificate (pre-construction elevation certificate). For
accessory structures, only an as-built elevation certificate is required to be
completed and submitted.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.061 LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT OR REVISION.
   (A)   Before community endorsement for an application for letter of map
change or conditional letter of map change may be granted, the applicant must
submit documentation necessary to demonstrate that the conditions resulting
from the development for which the letter of map change is being sought are or
will be equivalently protected from flooding as if the property were located
within an area of special flood hazard and the provisions of this chapter were
applied.
   (B)   For letters of map change involving alteration to a watercourse,
community endorsement will not be granted unless the application has detailed
the full impacts of the proposed change to all properties within the watershed.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.062 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Existing uses of property within an area of special flood hazard that
do not comply with the provisions of this chapter may be continued, regardless
of change in occupant, so long as the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The use was lawful and proper at the time it was originated;
      (2)   The use does not cease for a period exceeding 90 days;
      (3)   The primary structure in which the use is conducted is not
determined to be substantially damaged or condemned for occupancy; and
      (4)   The use is otherwise compliant with all applicable town ordinances
and state laws.
   (B)   In the event that a nonconforming use fails to meet one of these
criteria, its nonconforming status is terminated, and it must be discontinued
unless or until it can be reinitiated in such a way as to be compliant with
this chapter and all other applicable regulations. In the event a nonconforming
use is terminated, the Floodplain Administrator may order all remnants of that
use removed from any area of special flood hazard within 30 days, or sooner if
these items pose a threat to life or property.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.075 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.076 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
152.026,
152.041(H) or
152.077(C), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this section as proposed
in §
152.057 is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevation or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the
structure is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
design, specifications and plans for the construction, and shall certify that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice as outlined in this division (B). A record of such
certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision; and
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such bottom of the I-beam of the
manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
The home shall be installed by a licensed installer according to state law and
compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
this section be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the
I-beam of the manufactured home is elevated at least 36 inches in height above
the grade and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE on the county FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements of §
152.057, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes in
division (D) of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use
if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (F)   Accessory structure. Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
Zones A and AE on the county FIRM shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
      (2)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking or restroom use;
      (3)   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
      (4)   Structures shall be small in size, not exceed 600 square feet in
size;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE plus one foot freeboard;
      (6)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (7)   The structure shall be considered low in value, designed to have
low flood damage potential and constructed with flood resistance materials;
      (8)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse and lateral movement;
      (9)   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
      (10)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and be placed on opposing walls with the net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of the size of the
footprint of the structure (flood vents);
      (11)   The openings (flood vents) shall be located no higher than one
foot above grade; and
      (12)   The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
   (G)   Parking.
      (1)   Parking is permitted within an area of special flood hazard only if
the parking is transient in nature and incidental to a nonresidential use on
the same property, provided that the area in which parking occurs may not
represent more than 50% of the total parking area for that nonresidential or
residential use on that property.
      (2)   Other parking, including long term parking, storage of vehicles, or
parking related to a residential use is not permitted within an area of special
flood hazard.
   (H)   Open storage.
      (1)   Open storage is permitted within an area of special flood hazard
only when it is necessary due to the location of existing infrastructure that
must necessarily be located in low-lying, flood-prone areas, such as wastewater
treatment facilities, or that cannot be elevated for functional reasons, such
as railroad tracks.
      (2)   Open storage is not permitted within the boundaries of a regulatory
floodway.
      (3)   When open storage is permitted within an area of special flood
hazard, all reasonable steps must be taken to ensure that the materials are
reasonably safe from flooding, including requiring that materials be anchored
in place where possible. Compensatory storage based on the maximum amount of
material permitted to be stored below the elevation of the base flood is
required. An emergency evacuation plan must be submitted and must detail
reasonable steps to ensure that the stored material will not adversely impact
other properties in the event of flooding.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.077 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
152.003,
152.004 and
152.005 of this chapter.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
152.055,
152.057 and the provisions of the flood hazard reduction regulations of this
chapter.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
152.026 or
152.041(H) of this chapter.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.078 FLOODWAYS.
   Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.026 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway
is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply.
   (A)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of the flood hazard reduction regulations of this chapter.
   (C)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, § 65.12, of the National
Flood Insurance Program Regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations, provided that the community first completes all of the
provisions required by 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, § 65.12.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.079 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall hear and render judgment on requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Board of
Trustees may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
152.057(D) of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Board of Trustees may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of §
152.003.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in this section are met; and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.080 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence or phrase of this chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
court order and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of
this court order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court
order or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees
or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both, for each violation, and in
addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the Board of Trustees from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
   (B)   It is hereby found and declared by the county that severe flooding has
occurred in the past within its jurisdiction and will certainly occur within
the future; that flooding is likely to result in infliction of serious personal
injury or death, and is likely to result in substantial injury or destruction
of property within its jurisdiction; in order to effectively comply with
minimum standards for coverage under the National Flood Insurance Program, and
in order to effectively remedy the situation described herein, an emergency is
hereby declared to exist, and this chapter, being necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health and safety, shall be in full force and
effect and after its passage and approval.
(Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Location
   
153.03   Design
   
153.04   Effect of PUD approval
   
153.05   Number of permitted dwelling units/residential intensity
   
153.06   Nonresidential intensity
   
153.07   Minimum design and construction standards; private streets and alleys
   
153.08   Residential PUDs
   
153.09   Nonresidential PUDs
   
153.10   Building height restrictions
   
153.11   Setback requirements
   
153.12   Application and review procedure
   
153.13   Preapplication review
   
153.14   Application for rezoning and master development plan
   
153.15   Preliminary site development plan and preliminary plat
   
153.16   Final site development plan and final plat
   
153.17   Severability
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to encourage a unified design for
housing, commercial, office, institutional and industrial areas and facilities,
or combinations thereof, and, to provide for integrated developments having
harmony of design and a variety of functions.
   (B)   This chapter is to provide greater flexibility in the design of
buildings, yards, courts and circulation, than would otherwise be possible
through the strict application of the general zoning district regulations, and
to produce:
      (1)   A maximum choice in the types of environment and living units
available to the public;
      (2)   Open space and recreation areas;
      (3)   A pattern of development which preserves trees, outstanding natural
topography and geologic features, and prevents soil erosion;
      (4)   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
development;
      (5)   An efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of utilities
and streets and thereby lowering housing costs;
      (6)   An environment of stable character in harmony with the surrounding
development; and
      (7)   A more desirable environment than would be possible through the
strict application of other zoning district regulations.
   (C)   This chapter is designed to provide for small and large scale real
estate developments incorporating a single type or a variety of residential,
commercial, industrial properties which are planned and developed as a single
unit. Such development may consist of individual lots or it may have common
building sites. Common land and preservation of open space should be essential
and major elements of the plan which is related to, and affects, the long term
value of the homes and other development. A planned unit development shall be a
separate entity with a distinct character in harmony with surrounding
development.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.02 LOCATION.
   A PUD shall be permitted in any residential, commercial or industrial zoning
district or combination of districts.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.03 DESIGN.
   (A)   The proposed PUD shall be designed to provide for the unified
development of the area in accordance with the spirit and the purposes of the
districts in which it is located.
   (B)   Design may provide for modification of yard, setback and height
requirements on individual lots; but the density and intensity of the use
requirements of the underlying zoning districts as applied to the total area of
the PUD shall not be changed except in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Building code requirements shall not be reduced in the design of the
PUD.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.04 EFFECT OF PUD APPROVAL.
   (A)   Overlay district.
      (1)   The PUD is an overlay district. The underlying zoning and land use
plan designations on the property shall continue to establish residential
densities, and amount and type of commercial and industrial land uses. The
overlay provision permits these uses and densities to be transferred or
relocated within the PUD in accordance with this chapter and the approved
master development plan.
      (2)   When a PUD is located within two or more of the following differing
general classifications, each shall be separately calculated and allocated with
the PUD by said general classification:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Office;
         (c)   Commercial; and
         (d)   Industrial.
   (B)   Increasing intensity of use or density. Where a parcel does not
possess adequate zoning already in place to permit the desired PUD, the
property owners shall include with the PUD request, an application for rezoning
to the proper categories. This may be approved as part of the PUD approval
process.
   (C)   Time limit. Construction shall be started within one year of the
effective date of approval of the subdivision final plat for all or a portion
of the PUD. Failure to begin the development within said one year shall
automatically void the development plan within said one year and the Board of
Trustees may vacate the plat. The developer shall be notified, in writing, of
the expiration date by the office of the building official. Action shall be
taken by the Planning Commission and the Board of Trustees to amend the zoning
map to repeal the PUD designation and the land shall remain in the same zoning
classification which existed immediately preceding the approval of the PUD.
   (D)   Platting required. No modification of the use or bulk or area
requirements of the applicable underlying use district shall be permitted
unless a subdivision plat incorporating the provisions and requirements of this
chapter is submitted and approved in accordance with the subdivision
regulations and shall further include such covenants as will reasonably assure
the continued compliance with the approved master development plan.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.05 NUMBER OF PERMITTED DWELLING UNITS/RESIDENTIAL INTENSITY.
   (A)   (1)   The maximum number of permitted dwelling units within the PUD
shall not exceed a gross density of six dwelling units per acre on land
designated as low intensity residential on the town’s comprehensive plan.
      (2)   The maximum number of permitted dwelling units/residential
intensity within a PUD on lands designated as medium intensity on the town’s
comprehensive plan shall not exceed a gross density of 35 dwelling units per
acre.
      (3)   Location of housing types and housing density within the PUD,
however, may be reallocated irrespective of the general underlying zoning
district boundaries and shall be dependent upon the design of the approved PUD
master development plan.
   (B)   (1)   The low intensity residential density shall not exceed a maximum
number of dwelling units computed as follows:
 
Maximum number of D.U.s = Gross area of low intensity residential lands within
                          the PUD x 6 D.U.s per acres
 
      (2)   For purposes of computations above, each two sleeping rooms within
residential structures such as, but not limited to, boarding houses, nursing
homes, convalescent homes and elderly housing projects shall constitute a
dwelling unit. Additionally, for purposes of the computations above, gross area
shall mean all residential zoned land including one-half of the right-of-way of
any abutting street.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.06 NONRESIDENTIAL INTENSITY.
   (A)   The nonresidential areas as designated on the current town’s
comprehensive plan within a PUD may be reallocated in comparable acreage within
the PUD irrespective of the general zoning district boundaries, if such uses
are designed and located to be compatible with the residential uses of the PUD
and the residential use of adjacent properties. The high intensity industrial
areas shall comply with the area regulations and dimensional standards of the
applicable general zoning district.
   (B)   (1)   The low and medium intensity office and commercial areas shall
not exceed a maximum permitted floor area computed as follows:
 
                     Gross area of property located within a nonresidential
Maximum floor area = district x the floor area ratio set forth below in the
                     applicable zoning district
 
Zoning District Floor Area Ratio*
C-1             0.3
C-2             0.5
*Floor area ratio shall mean the gross area of building(s) divided by the lot
area
 
      (2)   For the purposes of the above computations, gross area shall mean
all commercially zoned land including one-half of the right-of-way of any
abutting street.
      (3)   The intensity of use of a PUD containing two or more commercial
zoning districts shall be separately calculated and allocated within the PUD by
said general zoning district acreage.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.07 MINIMUM DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS; PRIVATE STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Private streets and alleys may be permitted within a PUD if the following
criteria are met.
   (A)   The private streets are not connected with an adjacent parcel which is
not a part of the PUD.
   (B)   The owner/applicant shall clearly demonstrate the existence and
capabilities of a property owners association to provide the ongoing and long
term maintenance of the private street and alley facilities that will not be
provided by the town.
   (C)   The private streets shall be designed and constructed with the town’s
standards and specifications for public streets and alleys provided that
modifications may be requested and approved as a part of the master development
plan, if the following criteria are met.
      (1)   Construction and design shall be adequate to provide a traffic
carrying and utility installation capacity related to the design of the overall
street system, the function of the individual street, and the land use served.
      (2)   Paving cross-sections shall be designed to be adequate to provide
acceptable drainage in conformity with the drainage plan for the PUD; to
receive loading commensurate with anticipated traffic based on the design of
the overall street system; and to be a maintenance level commensurate with that
of facilities constructed to regular town standards.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.08 RESIDENTIAL PUDs.
   The following are uses permitted in various residential PUDs.
   (A)   Principal uses. When located in R-E, R-1A, R-1, R-3 or RM Districts,
the development may consist of one or more dwelling unit types subject to the
density limitations specified in §
153.05. Mobile home dwellings are permitted uses only within PUDs which are
located in whole or in part in an RM District. Mobile home developments may be
reallocated in comparable acreage within the PUD irrespective of the general RM
zoning district boundaries if such uses are designed and located to be
compatible with other uses of the PUD and with the residential use of adjacent
properties.
   (B)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses customarily incidental to principal
uses within the PUD are permitted. In addition to accessory uses customarily
incidental to permitted principal residential uses, accessory commercial
facilities may be included within the residential portion of a PUD in
accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   The accessory commercial uses may include, but not be limited to,
the following uses. Uses other than those listed herein must be specifically
approved by the town’s Planning Commission.
         (a)   Athletic clubs and facilities (public or private);
         (b)   Barber shop;
         (c)   Bakery, retail only;
         (d)   Beauty shop;
         (e)   Book store;
         (f)   Cafeteria;
         (g)   Candy store;
         (h)   Dairy store;
         (i)   Delicatessen;
         (j)   Dry cleaning; pickup;
         (k)   Food specialty store;
         (l)   Gift, novelty, souvenir shop;
         (m)   Grocery (other than supermarkets);
         (n)   Health food store;
         (o)   Hobby store;
         (p)   Ice cream store;
         (q)   Laundry; pickup;
         (r)   Liquor store;
         (s)   Newsstand;
         (t)   Office (performing services to residential areas);
         (u)   Pharmacy;
         (v)   Private club;
         (w)   Pro shop;
         (x)   Restaurant (other than drive-ins);
         (y)   Shoe repair shop;
         (z)   Tailor shop; and
         (aa)   Tobacco store.
      (2)   In residential PUDs the aggregate floor area of accessory
commercial uses shall not exceed 50 square feet per dwelling unit or a total of
30,000 square feet, whichever is less, exclusive of tennis, swimming,
racquetball and health facilities.
      (3)   Each accessory commercial establishment except private clubs or
restaurants shall be limited to a maximum of 3,500 square feet enclosed floor
area.
      (4)   Accessory commercial signs shall be limited to one nameplate of not
more than 16 square feet for each establishment. Nameplates shall be attached
flat against a building wall and shall not be animated, flashing or have other
than indirect illumination. In addition to the above, window signs painted on
the surface of, or located on the interior display window are permitted and
shall be limited to 20% of the entire window display area. Neon lighting is
acceptable only as a window sign.
      (5)   The accessory commercial uses shall be internally oriented,
designed primarily for the service, convenience and benefit of the residents of
the PUD, and shall be designed and located in such a manner as to be compatible
with the residential uses of the PUD and of adjacent properties. No
freestanding accessory commercial structure shall be located within 300 feet of
the perimeter of the PUD.
      (6)   All unenclosed parking lots within residential PUDs containing more
than ten spaces shall contain a minimum of ten-foot landscaped strips along all
street frontages with shade trees planted in an amount equivalent to one shade
tree for every 35 feet of street frontage, in addition, the remaining perimeter
of the parking lot shall be planted with a four-foot landscaped strip and shade
trees in the amount equivalent to one shade tree for every 50 feet of the
perimeter which does not abut upon a public street. For the purposes of this
chapter, landscaped strips may include trees, shrubs, flower beds, planted
earthen berms and other vegetation as well as ornamental objects such as
decorative fences, walls, statues and fountains.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.09 NONRESIDENTIAL PUDs.
   In commercial, office, education, medical, industrial and other types of
nonresidential PUDs, the permitted uses are the same as those for the district
or districts in which the PUD is located subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   Ground signs. For the purposes of this chapter, GROUND SIGN shall mean
any sign which is attached to, or a part of a completely self-supporting
structure. The supporting structure is not attached to any building or any
other structure and is anchored firmly to, or below, the ground surface.
      (1)   No ground sign shall be located within 150 feet of any residential
area, either within or abutting the PUD, unless separated by an arterial
street.
      (2)   Any ground sign shall maintain a minimum separation of 100 feet
from any other ground sign.
      (3)   Ground signs shall not exceed 25 feet in height, measured from the
mean curb level of the lot upon which it is erected, except a sign when located
behind the building setback line may exceed 25 feet but shall not exceed 40
feet in height.
   (B)   Signs-display surface area.
      (1)   The aggregate display surface area for wall or canopy signs shall
not exceed two square feet per each lineal foot of the building wall to which
the sign or signs are fixed.
      (2)   In addition to the wall or canopy signs permitted above, a lot
containing one or more business establishments may utilize for business signs
an aggregate display surface area of ground signs as follows.
      (3)   If not more than one ground sign is erected, one square foot of
display surface area per each lineal foot of street frontage, provided that
only arterial street frontage shall be used in the computation of display
surface area for lots that abut more than one street. If more than one ground
sign is erected, five-tenths square foot of display surface area per lineal
foot of street frontage, provided that only arterial street frontage shall be
used in the computation of display surface area for lots that abut more than
one street.
      (4)   In addition to the wall or canopy signs permitted in division (B)
(1) of this section, and in addition to the business ground signs permitted in
division (B)(2) of this section, a lot containing four or more business
establishments may erect one ground sign for each arterial street frontage
identifying the commercial or industrial complex and individual tenants
therein, not exceeding in the aggregate display area one square foot per four
feet of lineal arterial street frontage.
   (C)   Parking.
      (1)   All unenclosed parking lots within nonresidential PUDs or
nonresidential portions of PUDs containing more than ten spaces must have a
minimum ten-foot landscaped strip adjacent to their perimeters with shade trees
planted in the amount equivalent to one shade tree for every 35 feet of
perimeter lineal footage. On perimeters adjacent to residentially zoned land,
the landscaped strip shall contain 75% opaque screening which shall include a
solid wall, fence or compact evergreen hedge not less than four feet in height.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements specified in division (C)(1) of
this section, unenclosed parking lots with more than 20 spaces shall have a
minimum of 2% of the interior surface area landscaped and shall have a
permanent underground watering system.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.10 BUILDING HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   Building heights may exceed the restrictions within the applicable general
zoning district when the following requirements are met.
   (A)   Any building height which exceeds 35 feet shall be set back from an
abutting property or development in an R-1A, R-1, R-3 or RM Zoning District.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall prescribe minimum setbacks for any
building exceeding 75 feet in height.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.11 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Within a PUD, all industrial uses shall comply with the
minimum setback requirements and dimensional standards of the general
industrial district or districts in which the PUD is located, subject to the
perimeter requirements specified below. There shall be no minimum setback
requirements for all other zoning districts within the PUD except as otherwise
provided in this chapter and the construction codes of the town.
   (B)   Perimeter requirements. The building setback from the exterior
boundaries of the PUD shall not be less than the minimum yards customarily
required for the district or districts in which located. Provided, however,
that perimeter setbacks along arterial streets shall not be less than the
following:
 
District       Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
Residential    40 feet    25 feet   30 feet
Nonresidential 50 feet    50 feet   50 feet
 
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.12 APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The developer of a PUD shall follow a five-step application and review
procedure:
   (A)   Optional preapplication review;
   (B)   Application for rezoning, submission of master development plan and
PUD design statement;
   (C)   Preliminary plat and preliminary site development plan;
   (D)   Final plat and final site development plan; and
   (E)   Application for building permit.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.13 PREAPPLICATION REVIEW.
   Prior to submission of an application for rezoning for PUD, the applicant
should discuss with the Planning Commission the procedure for adopting a PUD
and the requirements for the general layout of the major roadways and
utilities, access to arterials, general design and narrative, the availability
of existing services, and similar matters. The Planning Commission shall also
advise the applicant, where appropriate, to discuss the proposed development
with those officials who must eventually approve the various aspects of the
proposal coming within their jurisdiction. The intent of the preapplication
review is to expedite the mandatory design review process and to facilitate the
approval of the master development plan.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.14 APPLICATION FOR REZONING AND MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   General. Any person, corporation, partnership, association or
combination thereof, owning or possessing a property right or interest in a
tract of land may make application for the supplemental district designation
PUD. Such application shall be accompanied by a master development plan. An
application for the supplemental district designation PUD may be processed
simultaneously with an application for an amendment to the underlying general
zoning district(s) and made contingent upon approval of said application.
   (B)   Application and master development plan.
      (1)   An application for a PUD shall be filed with the Planning
Commission. The application shall be accompanied by a fee in accordance with
the following fee schedule to defray the cost of the public notice and
investigation,as set forth in the Appendix of Fines and Fees.
      (2)   Three copies of the master development plan showing the major
details of the proposed development at a scale of not less than one inch equals
200 feet, shall accompany the filing of the application. The master development
plan shall consist of maps and text which contain:
         (a)   A site plan reflecting:
            1.   Proposed location and approximate size in acres or square feet
of all uses, including off-street parking and building areas in commercial and
industrial PUDs or portions of PUDs, open spaces and public uses;
            2.   General development standards for location, height, setback
and size of buildings and other structures;
            3.   General design standards for all proposed designs;
            4.   General development standards for proposed landscaping;
            5.   Public and private vehicular and pedestrian circulation
systems including major points of access to public rights-of-way;
            6.   Existing and proposed land use intensity designation, density
of proposed dwelling units by type, and proposed floor area ratios of
commercial structures;
            7.   The relationship to adjoining uses and properties including
adjacent land uses, zoning, densities, circulation systems, public utilities
and facilities and drainage areas; and
            8.   The existing topography, all floodplain areas, all drainage
areas in acres, treed areas, and slope and general soil classifications.
         (b)   A written explanation of the character of the PUD:
            1.   A legal description of the PUD;
            2.   A list of all owners and developers of the PUD;
            3.   Title of the PUD and a description of the PUD concept;
            4.   Proposed sequence and schedule of development;
            5.   Statement of improvements to be made to the major
transportation system and major utility systems;
            6.   Statement of applicant’s intention to future ownership of all
or portions of the PUD; and
            7.   Proposed restrictions and covenants which will govern the use
and continued maintenance of the development.
   (C)   Project phasing. All information and data required at the master
development plan stage must include the entire PUD site. Applications for
preliminary plans and plats may be made for any portion of the overall master
development plan. Requirements may be made for off-site public improvements on
a phased project.
   (D)   Public hearing and Planning Commission action. The Planning
Commission, upon filing of an application for the supplemental district
designation PUD shall set the matter for public hearing in accordance with the
regular procedures for zoning applications. Within 60 days after the filing of
an application, the Planning Commission shall conduct the public hearing and
shall determine:
      (1)   Whether the PUD is consistent with the comprehensive plan;
      (2)   Whether the PUD harmonizes with the existing and expected
development of surrounding areas;
      (3)   Whether the PUD is a unified treatment of the development
possibilities of the project site; and
      (4)   Whether the PUD is consistent with the stated purposes of the
standards of this chapter.
The Planning Commission shall forward its recommendations, the application and
the master development plan to the Town Board of Trustees for further hearing.
   (E)   Town Board of Trustees’ action. Upon receipt of the application,
master development plan and Planning Commission recommendation, the Town Board
of Trustees shall hold a hearing, review the master development plan and
approve, disapprove, modify or return the master development plan to the
Planning Commission for further consideration. Upon approval, the zoning map
shall be amended to reflect the supplemental designation PUD, and the applicant
shall be authorized to process a preliminary plat and preliminary site
development plan incorporating the provisions of the master development plan.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.15 PRELIMINARY SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   General. Upon approval of the zoning and the master development plan,
application may be filed for a preliminary plan and preliminary plat review.
Materials pertaining to the preliminary plan and plat must all be submitted to
the Planning Commission by the administratively designated deadline at least
two weeks prior to the meeting of the Planning Commission at which time the
preliminary plan and plat will be considered. Application for preliminary plat
and preliminary site development plan approval shall be accompanied by a fee as
set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees to defray the cost of administrative review and
investigation. After the Planning Commission has received the preliminary plan
and plat application in the form herein required, the matter will be placed on
the agenda for the appropriate meeting of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Preliminary plans. Contents of the preliminary plans, in addition to
the requirements of the town’s subdivision regulations for preliminary plats,
the following shall be submitted either on the preliminary plat or on separate
plan sheets to the same scale:
      (1)   The existing site conditions including contours at two-foot
intervals; all watercourses; 50- year and 100-year floodplains; unique natural
features and vegetative cover, including all existing trees;
      (2)   The tentative location and floor area of all existing and proposed
buildings, structures and other improvements, including maximum heights, types
of dwelling units, density per type and nonresidential structures including
commercial and industrial facilities;
      (3)   Preliminary architectural elevations of the proposed improvements
sufficient to relay the basic architectural intent;
      (4)   The general drainage system including the number of acres in each
drainage area and proposed coverage of buildings and structures for the purpose
of calculating storm drainage run-offs and storm drainage retention
requirements;
      (5)   The location and size in acres or square feet of all areas to be
conveyed, dedicated, reserved or otherwise used as common open space, public
park, recreational areas, school sites and similar public and semi-public uses;
      (6)   The existing and proposed circulation system of arterial, collector
and local streets, including off-street parking areas, service areas, loading
zones and major points of access to public rights-of-way (including major
points of ingress and egress to the development). Notations of proposed
ownership, public or private, should be included where appropriate. Right-of-
way and paved surfaces for each street shall be shown in accordance with the
minimum design standards outlined in this chapter and the current EMA
transportation plan. The existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system,
including its interrelationships with the vehicular circulation system,
indicating proposed treatment of points of conflict;
      (7)   The existing and proposed utility systems, including sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, water, fire hydrants and trash collection areas;
      (8)   A general landscaping plan indicating the treatment of materials
used for private and common open spaces. The details of size and species for
intended plantings of vegetation will be required at the final plan phase;
      (9)   A map of the area which surrounds the site within a distance of at
least 300 feet, showing surrounding land uses, zoning classifications,
densities, circulation systems and public facilities;
      (10)   The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the PUD, including
materials and techniques used for screening such as fencing, walls and other
landscaping; and
      (11)   Street cross-section schematics shall be submitted for each
general category of street to be included within the proposed development (one
of local, sub-collector, collector streets) to include proposed width,
treatment of curbs and gutters, sidewalk systems and bikeway systems. Street
designs must be consistent with the minimum street standards contained in this
chapter.
   (C)   Public hearing and Planning Commission action.
      (1)   The Planning Commission upon the filing of an application for
preliminary plan and preliminary plat approval shall set the matter for public
hearing.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall conduct the public hearing and shall
determine:
         (a)   Whether the preliminary plans and preliminary plat are
consistent with the master development plan;
         (b)   Whether the final site development plan and final plat are a
unified treatment of the development possibilities of the project site; and
         (c)   Whether the final site development plan and final plat are
consistent with the stated purposes and standards of this chapter.
      (3)   Upon approval by the Planning Commission, the applicant shall be
authorized to process a final site development plan and final plat
incorporating the provisions of the preliminary site plan and preliminary plat.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.16 FINAL SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   After approval by the Planning Commission of the preliminary plan
and plat, application may be made for approval of the final site development
plan and the final plat which shall be in substantial compliance with the
requirements of the approved preliminary plan.
      (2)   The final site development plan and final plat shall be deemed in
substantial compliance with the preliminary site development plan and
preliminary plat provided that the final site development plan and final plat
do not:
         (a)   Involve a reduction of more than 5% of the area reserved for
common open space or useable open space;
         (b)   Increase the floor area proposed for nonresidential use by more
than 5%;
         (c)   Increase residential densities; and
         (d)   Increase total ground area covered by buildings by more than 5%.
      (3)   If the final plan is not in substantial compliance with the
approved preliminary plan, the revision shall require the same review and
public hearing process required for approval of the preliminary plans. All
applications for final site development plan and final plat approval shall be
accompanied with a filing fee as set forth in the
Appendix of Fines and Fees to defray the cost of review and investigation.
   (B)   Contents of final plans. In addition to the requirements of the town
subdivision regulations for final plats, the following information shall be
submitted with the final plat on a separate final site development plan(s) at
the same scale as the final plat:
      (1)   Lot lines;
      (2)   The location and floor area of all existing and proposed buildings,
structures, ground signs and other improvements, including maximum height,
types of dwelling units, density per type and nonresidential structures
including commercial facilities. All buildings shall be dimensioned with
distances shown from clear reference points;
      (3)   The location and size in acres or square feet of all areas to be
conveyed, dedicated, reserved or used as common open spaces, public parks,
recreational areas, school sites and similar public or semi-public uses;
      (4)   The existing and proposed circulation system of arterial, collector
and local streets, including off-street parking areas, service areas, loading
zones and major points of access to public right-of-way. Notations of ownership
(public or private) shall be included where appropriate. Rights-of- way and
paved widths for each street shall be shown in accordance with the minimum
design standards of this chapter;
      (5)   The existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system, including
its interrelationships with the vehicular circulation system indicating the
proposed treatment of points of conflict;
      (6)   Preliminary architectural elevations (perspectives) sufficient to
relay the basic architectural intent of the proposed improvements;
      (7)   A landscape plan including the extent and location of all plant
materials and other landscaped features. Plant material must be identified by
direct labeling plan or by a clearly understandable legend. Proposed treatment
of all ground surfaces must be clearly indicated, including, but not limited
to, paving, turf, gravel, grading, and flower and shrub beds;
      (8)   The provisions for the ownership and maintenance of the common open
spaces as will reasonably ensure its continuity and conservation. Open space
may be dedicated to a private association or to the public, provided that a
dedication to the public shall not be accepted without the approval of the Town
Board of Trustees; and
      (9)   Such covenants as will reasonably ensure the continued compliance
with the approved master development plan and the final site development plan.
In order that the public interest may be protected, the town may be made
beneficiary of covenants pertaining to such matters as location of uses, height
of structures, landscaping, drainage, setbacks, screening, parking and access.
Such covenants shall provide that the town may enforce compliance therewith,
and shall further provide that amendment of such covenants shall require the
approval of the Planning Commission and the filing of record of a written
amendment to the covenants endorsed by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Planning Commission hearing and action.
      (1)   The Planning Commission, upon the filing of an application for
final site development plan and final plat approval shall set the matter for
public hearing in accordance with the regular procedures for final plat filing
as prescribed in the subdivision regulations.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing and shall
determine:
         (a)   Whether the final site development plan and final plat are
consistent with the preliminary plans previously approved;
         (b)   Whether the final site development plan and final plat harmonize
with the existing and expected development of surrounding areas;
         (c)   Whether the final site development plan and final plat are a
unified treatment of the development possibilities of the project site; and
         (d)   Whether the final site development plan and final plat are
consistent with the stated purposes and standards of this chapter.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall forward its recommendation, the
application, and the final plans to the Town Board of Trustees for further
hearing.
   (D)   Town Board of Trustees’ action. Upon receipt of the application, all
final plans and the Planning Commission recommendation, the Board of Trustees
shall hold a hearing, review the final plans, and approve, disapprove, modify,
or return the plans to the Planning Commission for further consideration. Upon
approval of the final site development plan and the final plat, the applicant
may proceed with the filing of the final plat.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 153.17 SEVERABILITY.
   If any one or more of the sections, sentences, clauses or parts of this
chapter, chapter or section shall for any reason be held invalid, the
invalidity of such section, clause or part shall not affect or prejudice in any
way the applicability and validity of any other provision of this chapter. It
is hereby declared to be the intention of the town that this section would have
been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal, invalid sentence, clause,
section or part not been included.
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017)
CHAPTER 154: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title; authority; applicability; effective date
   
154.002   Purpose; nature of regulations
   
154.003   Scope
   
154.004   Conflicting provisions
   
154.005   Rules of language; ordinance construction
   
154.006   Transitional provisions
   
154.007   Safe harbor authorization
   
154.008   Severability
Definitions
   
154.020   Definitions
Administration and Procedures
   
154.035   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
154.036   Board of Adjustments
   
154.037   Summary of authority
   
154.038   Zoning amendments
   
154.039   Planned unit development (PUD)
   
154.040   Special use permit (SUP)
   
154.041   Site plan review
   
154.042   Variances
District Regulations
   
154.055   Zoning districts
   
154.056   Zoning map
   
154.057   Agricultural district (A-1)
   
154.058   Residential districts
   
154.059   Commercial districts
   
154.060   Industrial districts
   
154.061   Mixed-use districts
   
154.062   Dimensional and density standards
Use Regulations
   
154.075   Explanation of table abbreviations
   
154.076   Table of uses
   
154.077   Accessory uses
   
154.078   General standards
   
154.079   Approval of accessory uses and structures
   
154.080   Additional standards for specific accessory uses and structures
Provisions Applicable to All
Article 1: Exterior Lighting
   
154.095   Exterior lighting
   
154.096   Exemptions
   
154.097   Lighting plan requirement
   
154.098   General lighting standards
   
154.099   Methods of compliance
   
154.100   Lighting level measurements
Article 2: Fencing
   
154.115   Fencing
   
154.116   Fence placement
   
154.117   Height limitation in rear and side yards
   
154.118   Height limitation in front yards
   
154.119   Reverse frontage lots
   
154.120   Barbed wire or electrically charged fences
   
154.121   Fence construction, materials and setback
   
154.122   Gates
   
154.123   Inspection
   
154.124   Maintenance
   
154.125   Fence permit required; application
   
154.126   General requirements
   
154.127   Right of appeal
Article 3: Landscaping
   
154.140   Landscaping
   
154.141   Applicability
   
154.142   Landscaping area requirements
   
154.143   Parking lot landscaping
   
154.144   Landscaping plan
   
154.145   Maintenance of landscaping
   
154.146   Completion requirements
Article 4: Parking and Loading
   
154.160   Parking and loading
   
154.161   Applicability
   
154.162   Computation of parking and loading requirements
   
154.163   Off-street parking requirements
   
154.164   Calculation of maximum parking requirements
   
154.165   Stacking spaces for drive-through uses
   
154.166   Off-street loading requirements
   
154.167   Parking and loading surfacing
Article 5: Screening
   
154.180   Applicability
   
154.181   Refuse collection
   
154.182   Service, storage, and off-street loading areas
   
154.183   Rooftop mechanical equipment
Article 6: Signage
   
154.195   Purpose; intent
   
154.196   Definitions
   
154.197   Application; prohibited signs
   
154.198   Exemptions
   
154.199   Enforcement; administration
   
154.200   Residential district signs
   
154.201   Commercial and industrial district signs
   
154.202   Downtown mixed-use district signs
   
154.203   Digital signs
   
154.204   Nonconforming signs
   
154.205   Maintenance of signs
Additional Provisions Applicable to Nonresidential Use
   
154.220   Purpose
   
154.221   Adult oriented business use
   
154.222   Animal care and kennels
   
154.223   Charitable institutions
   
154.224   Compost facility
   
154.225   Convenience store and vehicle repair use
   
154.226   Medical marijuana use
   
154.227   Modular structure as temporary use
   
154.228   Transitional living facility, inmate transitional living facility and
halfway houses
   
154.229   Vehicle/equipment sales, vehicle/equipment storage yard and vehicle
repair
Nonconformities
   
154.240   Purpose; violations
   
154.241   Nonconforming uses of land without a building or structure
   
154.242   Nonconforming uses of conforming buildings
   
154.243   Nonconforming buildings and structures that have conforming uses
   
154.244   Screening nonconforming commercial uses
Enforcement
   
154.255   Violations and penalties
Telecommunication Facilities
   
154.270   Purpose
   
154.271   Exclusions; application process
   
154.272   Criteria for review of application
   
154.273   Site requirements
   
154.274   Restrictions and conditions
   
154.275   Height of tower
Platting and Subdividing
   
154.290   General provisions
   
154.291   Types of plats
   
154.292   Pre-application conference
   
154.293   Filing fee
   
154.294   Preliminary plat
   
154.295   Final plat
   
154.296   Minor subdivision plat
   
154.297   Replats
   
154.298   Amending plats
   
154.299   Vacation of plats
Construction Plans and Procedures
   
154.310   Construction plans
   
154.311   Timing of public improvements
   
154.312   Inspection, maintenance, and acceptance of public improvements
Design Standards
   
154.325   Streets
   
154.326   Alleys
   
154.327   Sidewalks
   
154.328   Easements
   
154.329   Blocks
   
154.330   Lots
   
154.331   Public areas and open space
   
154.332   Building and setback lines
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE; AUTHORITY; APPLICABILITY; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Hennessey
Unified Development Ordinance” and establishes the regulations and standards
governing the use and development of land within the town.
   (B)   The town is authorized by the powers pursuant to the state
legislature. The Town Board of Trustees chooses to exercise broad powers
including the regulation of zoning, planning and subdivision of land. In
addition, the Town Board of Trustees intends that all other available powers
shall support this chapter including those powers and those provided by state
law, such as, but not limited to, the provisions of 11 O.S. §§ 11-43-101 et
seq. If other authority is available because of changes in statutory and case
law, state and federal, the Town Board of Trustees intends to avail itself of
those resources as well.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all land, buildings, structures and uses
thereof located within the town. No person shall begin or change a land use or
development in the town without first obtaining a permit or approval from the
Zoning Administrator. Uses not allowed or permitted are prohibited.
   (D)   This chapter has been adopted pursuant to Ordinance 382, dated July 8,
2021, and as amended thereto.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE; NATURE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are enacted to protect the public
health, safety and general welfare; and to encourage the orderly and efficient
development and use of land within the town, consistent with the town’s
comprehensive plan and the following principles:
      (1)   Compact development, which promotes the efficient provision of
public services and infrastructure;
      (2)   Mixed-use, which clusters homes, jobs, stores, parks and services
within walking distance of one another;
      (3)   Full utilization of urban services (e.g., water, sewer, storm
drainage, parks and transportation facilities), which maximizes the return on
public investments in infrastructure;
      (4)   Transportation efficiency, or development of an interconnected
street system supporting multiple modes of transportation, which yields more
direct routes (shorter distances) between local destinations, conserves energy,
reduces emergency response times and provides alternatives to the automobile
for those who are unable or choose not to drive a car;
      (5)   Human-scale design, or development in which people feel safe and
comfortable walking from place to place because buildings, streetscapes,
parking areas, landscaping, lighting and other components of the built
environment are designed foremost with pedestrians in mind;
      (6)   Healthy and active living, by creating or transforming
neighborhoods and districts to make physical activity through transportation,
exercise and recreation more likely;
      (7)   Environmental health, which requires adequate light and air
circulation, management of surface water runoff, and treatment and disposal of
waste; and
      (8)   Efficient administration of code requirements, consistent with the
needs of the town.
   (B)   The regulations contained herein divide the town into zoning districts
and regulate therein the use of the land, buildings and structures, the size of
buildings as to height and number of stories, the coverage of the land by
buildings, the size of yards and open spaces, the location of buildings and the
density of population, within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.003 SCOPE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, no land shall be used other than one
that is allowed by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No building, structure or improvement shall be made, erected,
constructed, moved, altered, enlarged or rebuilt, or arranged in any manner
except as allowed by this chapter.
   (C)   Buildings, structures and land may be used and occupied only in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   All lots created or modified must comply with all applicable
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.004 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conflict with state or federal regulations. If the provisions of this
chapter are inconsistent with state or federal law, the more restrictive
provision governs to the extent allowed by law. The more restrictive provision
is the one that imposes more stringent controls.
   (B)   Conflict with other regulations. If the provision of this chapter are
inconsistent with one another or if they conflict with the provisions found in
other adopted ordinance or regulations of the town, the more restrictive
provision governs unless otherwise expressly stated. The more restrictive
provision is the one that imposes more stringent controls.
   (C)   Conflict with private agreements and covenants. This chapter does not
interfere with, abrogate or annul any easement, covenant, deed restriction or
other agreement between private parties. If the provisions of this chapter
impose a greater restriction than imposed by an agreement or covenant among
private parties, the provisions of this chapter govern. The town is not
responsible for monitoring or enforcing agreements or covenants among private
parties.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.005 RULES OF LANGUAGE; ORDINANCE CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Meanings and intent. The language of the chapter must be read
literally. Regulations are no more or less strict than stated. Words and terms
expressly defined in this chapter or have the specific meanings assigned,
unless the context expressly indicates another meaning. Words that are not
expressly defined in this chapter have the meaning given in the latest edition
of Merriam-Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary.
   (B)   Computation of time.
      (1)   References to “days” are to calendar days unless otherwise
expressly stated. Reference to “business days” are references to regular
working “days” of the town, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays observed
by town government.
      (2)   The time in which an act is to be completed is computed by
excluding the first day and including the last day. If the last day is a
Saturday, Sunday, or holiday observed by town government, that day is excluded.
      (3)   A day concludes at the close of business and any materials received
after that time will be considered to have been received the following day.
   (C)   Tenses and usage.
      (1)   Words used in the singular include the plural. The reverse is also
true.
      (2)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense. The
reverse is also true.
      (3)   The words “must”, “will”, “shall” and “may not” are mandatory.
      (4)   The word “may” is permissive, and “should” is advisory, not
mandatory or required.
      (5)   When used with numbers, “up to x,” “not more than x” and “a maximum
of x” all include “x”.
      (6)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust company or corporation, as well as an individual.
      (7)   The words “used” and “occupied” include “intended, designed or
arranged to be used or occupied”.
      (8)   The word “lot” includes “plat” or “parcel”.
   (D)   Conjunctions. Unless the context otherwise clearly indicates,
conjunctions have the following meanings:
      (1)   “And” indicates that all connected items or provisions apply; and
      (2)   “Or” indicates that the connected items or provisions may apply
singularly or in combination.
   (E)   Headings and illustrations. Headings and illustrations are provided
for convenience and reference only and do not define or limit the scope of any
provision of this chapter. In case of any difference of meaning or implication
between the text of this chapter and any heading, drawing, table, figure or
illustration, the text controls.
   (F)   Current versions and citations. All references to other town, state or
federal regulations in the chapter refer to the most current version and
citation for those regulations, unless expressly indicated otherwise. When the
referenced regulations have been repealed and not replaced by other
regulations, chapter requirements for compliance are no longer in effect.
   (G)   Lists and examples. Unless otherwise expressly indicated, lists of
items or examples that use “including”, “such as” or similar terms are intended
to provide examples only. They are not to be construed as exhaustive lists of
all possibilities.
   (H)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or another officer or employee of the town to perform an
act or duty, that provision will be construed as authorizing the department
head or officer to delegate that responsibility to others over whom they have
authority. Delegation of authority is not allowed when the provisions of this
chapter expressly prohibit such a delegation.
   (I)   Public officials and agencies. All employees, public officials, bodies
and agencies to which references are made are those of the town unless
otherwise expressly stated.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.006 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this section address the transition from the previous
ordinance (the one in effect before the effective date specified in §
154.001) to this chapter.
   (A)   Zoning district map symbol conversions. The zoning district names and
map symbols in effect before the effective date specified in §
154.001 are converted as follows:
Proposed District Name Existing District Name
Proposed District Name                  Existing District Name
   Agricultural
A-1  Agricultural District              A-1  Agricultural District
   Residential
RE   Rural Estate District              R-1A Urban Estate Residential District
R-1  Low Density Residential District-1 R-1  One-family Residential District
R-2  Medium Density Residential         R-2  Medium Density Residential
     District                                District
R-3  High Density Residential District  R-3  Residential Multi- Family District
RM   Mobile Home Park District          RM   Mobile Home Park District
   Commercial
LC   Light Commercial District          C-l  Local Commercial District
HC   Heavy Commercial District          C-3  Highway Commercial District
   Industrial
I-1  Light Industrial District          I-1  Restricted Industrial District
I-2  Heavy Industrial District          I-2  General Commercial District
   Mixed-Use Districts
MU-1 Low Density Mixed-use District
DM   Downtown Mixed-use District        C-2  Center Business District
 
   (B)   Applications, permits and approvals.
      (1)   Any building, development or structure for which a building permit
was issued, or a complete permit application had been accepted for processing
before the effective date specified in §
154.001 may be completed in conformance with the issued building permit and
other applicable permits and conditions, even if such building, development or
structure does not comply with provisions of this chapter. If the building is
not commenced and completed within the time allowed under the original building
permit, the building, development or structure may be constructed, completed
and occupied only if it complies with the standards of this chapter.
      (2)   Completed applications for PUDs, development plans, special use
permits, variance or other zoning-related approvals that are pending approval
on the effective date specified in §
154.001 must be reviewed wholly under the terms of the chapter in effect
immediately preceding the effective date specified in §
154.001. Building permits for construction and development approved under such
zoning approvals may be issued in accordance with Section 10-1.1-B3.
      (3)   (a)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue building
permits for construction or development approved before the effective date
specified in §
154.001 and for developments pending approval under Section 10-1.1-B2, even if
such building development or structure does not fully comply with provisions of
this chapter.
         (b)   If building is not commenced and completed within the time
allowed under the building permit and any authorized permit extension, then the
building, development or structure may be constructed, completed and occupied
only if it complies with the regulations of this chapter.
      (4)   (a)   When a use classified as a special use permit under this
chapter exists as an approved special use permit or permitted use on the
effective date specified in §
154.001, that use will be considered a lawfully established special use permit
under this chapter.
         (b)   When any amendment to this chapter changes the classification of
a permitted use to a special use permit, any use lawfully established before
such amendment will be considered a lawfully established special use permit
after the effective date of the amendment.
         (c)   A lawfully established existing use that is not allowed as a
special use permit or permitted use in the district in which the use is now
located will be considered a nonconforming use and will be subject to the
applicable regulations of §§
154.240 through
154.244 of this chapter.
   (C)   Violations continue. Any violation of the previous ordinance shall
continue to be a violation under this chapter and shall be subject to the
penalties and enforcement set forth in §§
154.240 through
154.244 and
154.999 of this chapter, unless the use, development, construction, or other
activity complies with the provisions of this chapter. Payment shall be
required for any civil penalty assessed under the previous ordinance, even if
the original violation is no longer considered a violation under this chapter.
   (D)   Nonconformities.
      (1)   Any nonconformity under the previous ordinance will also be a
nonconformity under this chapter, as long as the nonconforming situation
continues to exist.
      (2)   If, however, a nonconforming situation under previous zoning
regulations becomes conforming because of the adoption of this chapter, or any
subsequent amendment to it, then the situation will no longer be considered a
nonconformity.
      (3)   A situation that did not constitute a (lawful) nonconforming
situation under the previously adopted ordinance does not achieve (lawful)
nonconforming status under this chapter merely by repeal of the previous
ordinance.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.007 SAFE HARBOR AUTHORIZATION.
   The Town Board of Trustees is expressly authorized to avoid the preemptive
force of any provision of the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons
Act (RLUIPA, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000cc et seq.) by any one or more of the
following actions:
   (A)   Changing the policy or practice that results in a substantial burden
on religious exercise;
   (B)   Retaining the policy or practice and exempting the substantially
burdened religious exercise;
   (C)   Providing exemptions from the policy or practice for applications that
substantially burden religious exercise; or
   (D)   Any other means that eliminates the substantial burden on religious
exercise.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.008 SEVERABILITY.
   If any portion of this chapter is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by
a court of competent jurisdiction, the portion is to be deemed severed from the
chapter and in no way affects or diminishes the validity of the reminder of the
chapter.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
DEFINITIONS
§ 154.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In the
event of conflict between any terms and definitions as established by state law
or Department of Health regulations, the definition promulgated by the state or
Department of Health shall prevail.
   ACCESS. A means of vehicular or pedestrian approach, entry or exit from
property.
   ACCESSORY.
      (1)   When used in combination with the following words:
         (a)   BUILDING(S). A detached building(s) containing an accessory use
and located on the same lot as the primary building, provided all accessory
buildings on a lot shall not exceed in size 240 square feet.
         (b)   USE(S). A use(s) on the same lot as the primary use which is
different from and customarily associated with the primary use, and which use
has dedicated to it not more gross floor area than permitted in division (1)(a)
of this definition.
      (2)   Examples, not inclusive:
 
Primary Building and Use Accessory Building and Use
Dwelling-Habitation      Carport-Vehicle Storage
Dwelling-Habitation      Workshop-General
Dwelling-Habitation      Greenhouse-Cultivation
Dwelling-Habitation      Dwelling-Home Occupation
 
   ADULT DAY CARE CENTER. A facility which provides basic day care services to
unrelated, impaired adults for more than four hours in a 24-hour period. A
CENTER shall be a distinct entity, either freestanding or a separate program of
a larger organization. A CENTER shall have a separately verifiable staff,
space, budget and participant record system. ADULT DAY CARE CENTER does not
include retirement centers and senior citizen centers.
   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any business activity which offers the opportunity
to view specified sexual activity or view, or touch, for entertainment,
specified anatomical areas. Such definition further includes, but is not
limited to, adult arcade, adult bookstore/film store, adult cabaret, adult
lounge, adult motel or hotel, adult retail store, and an adult theater.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and
animal husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating or
storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any such
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities.
The term shall not include agricultural industries such as commercial poultry
or swine production, cattle or swine feed lots, fur bearing animal farms,
commercial greenhouses, commercial fish or poultry hatcheries and other similar
activities.
   AIRPORT or LANDING FIELD. A facility used for the LANDING, take-off or
taxiing of aircraft.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS. An establishment other than a restaurant,
licensed to sell ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES for consumption on premises; that limits
patronage to adults of legal age for consumption of ALCOHOL; and in which
limited food service may be accessory to the service of ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
Drinking ESTABLISHMENTS may include but are not limited to taverns, saloons,
breweries, bars, pubs or cocktail lounges associated with restaurants.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which affords a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   AMUSEMENT, COMMERCIAL INDOOR. An amusement enterprise wholly enclosed in a
building which is treated acoustically so that noise generated by the
enterprise is not audible at the bounding property line and including, but not
limited to, a bowling alley or billiard parlor.
   AMUSEMENT, COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR. Any amusement enterprise offering
entertainment or games of skill to the general public for a fee or charge
wherein any portion of the activity takes place in the open, including, but not
limited to, a golf driving range, archery range and miniature golf course.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or the owner’s
representative who shall have express written authority to act on behalf of the
owner. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises for all
applications for subdivision review
   ART GALLERY. A building where art such as paintings, sculptures or other
works are exhibited and/or sold to the public.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR GARAGE. Establishments primarily engaged in general
automotive repair, including, but not limited to, engine, transmission and
motor repair shops, service garages, tire shops, glass replacement shops and
body repair shops.
   AUTO STORAGE or AUTO AUCTION. Establishments primarily engaged in the
storage and wholesale distribution of new and used passenger automobiles,
trucks, trailers and other motor vehicles, but not including machinery wrecking
establishments or junkyards.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevations shown on the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from the flood that
has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. An owner-occupied housing unit with fewer than six
individual guest rooms where short-term lodging and meals are provided for
compensation.
   BLOCK. An area enclosed by streets and occupied by or intended for
buildings, as a term of measurement, BLOCK shall mean the distance along a side
of a street lying between and adjoining two intersecting streets.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling other than a hotel where for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three or more, but not exceeding 20 persons, on a weekly or monthly basis.
   BREWERY, CRAFT BREW. An individually owned establishment primarily engaged
in brewing beer for distribution.
   BREWERY, LARGE SCALE. Establishments primarily engaged in brewing beer, ale,
malt liquors and nonalcoholic beer for wholesale distribution.
   BUFFER. A strip of land with a fence, wall or landscaping that provides a
visual barrier between uses.
   BUILDING. Any structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure for
persons, animals or chattel.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the street right-of-way line designating
the minimum distance from the street right-of-way line that a structure may be
erected.
   BUILDING AND LANDSCAPING MATERIALS SALES YARD. A retail establishment
selling hardware, lumber and other large building materials, plant materials
and other landscaping materials. Includes paint, wallpaper, glass, fixtures.
Includes all these stores selling to the general public, even if contractor
sales account for a major proportion of total sales.
   BULK STANDARDS. Specifications that provide minimum building setbacks, and
maximum building height, building coverage and floor area ratio requirements.
   BUS STATION OR TERMINAL. Establishments primarily engaged in the operation
of motor vehicle passenger terminals and of maintenance and service facilities,
not operated by companies that also furnish motor vehicle passenger
transportation.
   CARETAKER OR EMPLOYEE HOUSING. A detached secondary housing unit that is
used for persons employed on the premises, where the principal commercial,
industrial or institutional use of the site involves operations, equipment or
other resources that require 24-hour oversight.
      (1)   Such housing shall be occupied exclusively by the caretaker and/or
employee and not for rent or use as a separate housing unit by persons other
than those employed on the premise.
      (2)   The Planning Commission must find that the principal use on the
site requires the continual supervision of a caretaker, superintendent or
watchman.
   CARPORT.
      (1)   Any accessory building constructed in conjunction with the use of a
single-family or two- family dwelling and which is:
         (a)   Over a paved driveway;
         (b)   Abutting the dwelling to which it is accessory;
         (c)   Unenclosed, except for the one side abutting the dwelling;
         (d)   No more than 25 feet in total length, both within and outside
the front setback; and
         (e)   No wider than 12 feet for a single garage and/or driveway or no
wider than 24 feet for a double garage and/or driveway.
      (2)   No more than one carport shall be permitted for each dwelling unit.
   CATERING ESTABLISHMENT. A business that prepares and delivers food for
consumption on the premises of a client. Does not include mobile food vendors.
   CHARITABLE OR PHILANTHROPIC INSTITUTIONS. A private, tax-exempt organization
whose primary function is to provide either health, social, recreational,
religious or benevolent services, or research or educational activities in
areas of benefit to the public such as health, medicine or conservation of
natural resources. Does not include an organization for the purpose of
operating a trade or business or whose primary purpose or function is promoting
the economic advancement of its members, such as a professional or trade
association or a labor union.
   CHURCH. A facility operated by a religious organization used exclusively as
a place of worship or for the promotion of religious activities, including
accessory uses on the same site. Examples of these types of facilities include
churches, mosques, synagogues and temples. Examples of allowable accessory uses
on the same site include living quarters for ministers and staff, and
facilities for child day care and religious instruction.
   COLLEGE or UNIVERSITY. An academic institution of higher learning accredited
or recognized by the state and offering a program or series of programs of
academic study.
   COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROW AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITY. Any medical
marijuana growing, or processing facility licensed by the state to grow or
process medical marijuana in excess of 12 plants. GROWING includes the
cultivation, manufacturing, processing, packaging and distribution of marijuana
and marijuana products. PROCESSING includes, but not limited to drying,
cleaning, curing, packaging, and extraction of active ingredients to create
medical marijuana, medical marijuana products or concentrates.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A public institution owned and operated by a governmental
body for the social or recreational uses, health or welfare of the community
served.
   COMMUNITY DIGEST. Please see COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A periodically updated series of documents that unifies
all elements and aspects of urban planning. This plan reflects the best
judgment of the staff, Planning and Zoning Commission and sets a policy for
zoning and subdivision decisions. This Plan indicates the general locations
recommended for various land uses, transportation routes, public buildings,
streets, parks and other public and private developments and improvements. This
plan has historically been called the COMMUNITY DIGEST.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. Detailed final construction drawings indicating street,
alley, water, wastewater, drainage or the layout of other installations.
   COUNTRY CLUB, PRIVATE. An area of 20 acres or more containing a golf course,
a clubhouse and associated uses available only to private specific membership.
   COVERAGE. The ratio of the gross floor area of all buildings on a lot,
including the area covered by all overhanging roofs in excess of two feet, to
the lot area.
   CREMATORY. A facility licensed by the State Board of Embalmers and Funeral
Directors for the disposal of human remains by cremation, dehydration,
combustion or other similar means.
   DAY CAMP FOR CHILDREN. A facility arranged and conducted for the organized
recreation and instruction including outdoor activities on a daytime basis.
   DAY-CARE CENTER. Family day-care homes and nurseries.
   DEDICATION. The transfer in ownership of a parcel of land, right-of-way or
improvement to the town or other public entity without compensation.
   DEED. A legal document that states conveyance of title to real property.
   DENSITY. The average number of housing units per parcel of land generally
expressed as “dwellings per acre”.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, entity or corporation who subdivides a tract or
parcel of land to be sold or handled for his or her own personal gain or use.
   DISPENSARY STORE. An establishment licensed by the State Department of
Health and the town pursuant to 63 O.S. § 421A, which allows the retail sale of
marijuana, or marijuana derivatives in the form provided by licensed
processors, as well as other products, including paraphernalia and clothing, to
be sold to qualifying patients or their caregiver.
   DISTRICT. A zoning district created herein.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, which is designed or used as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including trailer homes.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A dwelling designed to be occupied by three or
more families living independently of each other, exclusive of hotels or
motels.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling designed to be occupied by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room or a suite of two or more rooms designed for and
used by one family for living and sleeping purposes and having one kitchen or
kitchenette.
   EASEMENT. A right held by the town or its franchised utility companies to be
used for access, drainage or the placement of utilities such as water, sewer,
gas, telephone, cable television and electrical lines or other facilities.
   ENGINEER. A person licensed to practice engineering in the state.
   EQUIPMENT STORAGE/RENTAL YARD. The use of any building, land area or portion
thereof, for the display, sale, rental or lease of heavy construction or farm
equipment, including cranes, earthmoving and grading equipment, heavy trucks,
tractors and any warranty or repair work and other repair services conducted as
an accessory use. Outdoor display of such items may be provided only as
permitted by the district in which it is located.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a
group of not to exceed five persons not all related by blood or marriage,
living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit and
maintaining and using the same housekeeping facilities in common.
   FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. A private dwelling which provides care and supervision
for seven or fewer children for part of the 24-hour day. The term FAMILY DAY-
CARE HOME shall not include informal arrangements which parents make
independently with neighbors, friends and others, or with caretakers in the
child’s own home.
   FENCE.
      (1)   A structure, wall or hedge, erected or grown for the purpose of
dividing open space, delineating boundaries, enclosure or preventing passage or
sight.
      (2)   The height of FENCES shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Measurement to be taken from the highest elevation contiguous to
the fence from the base to the top;
         (b)   The fence is to follow the topography and is measured
accordingly;
         (c)   Decorative posts are to be excluded from measurement; and
         (d)   Planter boxes built to effectively lower the height of the fence
will be included in the measurement.
   FINAL PLAT. The map, drawing or chart on which an owner’s plan of
subdivision is presented to the Planning Commission for approval, and which, if
approved, will be submitted to the County Clerk for recording.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. An establishment primarily engaged in the
facilitation of financial transactions, such as investments, loans and
deposits. Uses include banks and trust companies, credit agencies, and other
investment companies.
   FUNERAL HOME and MORTUARY. Establishments where the deceased are prepared
for burial or cremation, funeral services may be conducted and cremation may
occur.
   FREIGHTING YARD OR TERMINAL. A transportation facility furnishing services
incidental to air, motor freight, and rail transportation. Examples of these
facilities include freight terminal facilities, packing, crating, inspection
and weighing services, postal service bulk mailing distribution centers, and
trucking facilities, including transfer and storage.
   FRONTAGE. Property on one side of a street or place measured along the line
of the street or place.
   GARAGE, PARKING. Any building or portion thereof used for the storage of
four or more vehicles for profit, hire or otherwise involving compensation in
which any servicing is an accessory use but where repair facilities are not
provided.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building used for storage purposes only for vehicles used
solely by the occupants and their guests of the building to which it is
accessory.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair or equipping of vehicles.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS. The land and buildings or structures thereon used
for the retail sales of gasoline, oil fuels and vehicle accessories, and
accessory uses exclusive of painting, major repair or the sale of butane or
propane fuels. All storage tanks for gasoline shall be below the surface of the
ground and provided that no filling station shall be within 300 feet of any
school, church, hospital, convalescence hospital, playground, community
building or youth center or any other place where a large number of people
congregate and further provided that the service station conforms to this code
of ordinances.
   GOLF COURSE, COMMERCIAL. A golf course privately owned but open to the
public for a fee and operated as a commercial venture.
   GROCERY STORE or SUPERMARKET. A retail or wholesale store that primarily
sells food, including canned and frozen foods, fresh fruits and vegetables, and
fresh (raw) and prepared meats, fish and poultry.
   GREENHOUSE and PLANT NURSERY. A retail enterprise that sells plants, garden
supplies and services, and similar items not to include heavy equipment such as
farm machinery.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of all horizontal areas of all of the floors of a
building as measured from the facade of exterior walls or from the centerline
of common walls separating buildings and including, but not limited to, the
following spaces:
      (1)   Basements;
      (2)   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
      (3)   Floor space for mechanical equipment with structural head room of
seven feet or more;
      (4)   Penthouses;
      (5)   Attic space providing head room of seven feet or more;
      (6)   Interior balconies, mezzanines and enclosed covered porches and
enclosed steps; and
      (7)   Accessory uses in the building exclusive of parking garages.
   GROUP HOME. A community-based residential facility located in a single-
family zoning area that admits not more than six persons with developmental or
physical disabilities who require specialized living arrangements, and that
provides for such persons a home that is subject to the care and supervision of
a responsible adult and which is licensed by or which has a contract with the
Department of Human Services. GROUP HOMES shall be subject to all restrictions
of 60 O.S.
   GROW FACILITY. Please see COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR
PROCESSING FACILITY.
   HALFWAY HOUSE. A private facility for the placement of inmates in a
community setting for the purpose of reintegrating into the community inmates
who are nearing their release dates. The term shall not include private
prisons.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Director of the Kingfisher County Health Department or
his or her designee.
   HEALTHY AND ACTIVE LIVING. Creating or transforming neighborhoods and
districts to make physical activity through transportation, exercise and
recreation more likely.
   HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average line of the highest and
lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the highest
point of coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof or to the
average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A business which is carried on in a dwelling unit provided
that:
      (1)   The business shall be restricted to the providing or performance of
services. No on-site wholesale or retail sales shall be permitted.
      (2)   The following businesses shall not be eligible for classification
as a HOME OCCUPATION:
         (a)   Beauty or barber shop;
         (b)   Nursing home or clinic;
         (c)   Doctor’s or dentist’s office;
         (d)   Day-care center;
         (e)   The repair of vehicles owned by someone other than the occupant;
or
         (f)   Landscaping, tree trimming and/or lawn care service.
      (3)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in the business.
      (4)   The HOME OCCUPATION shall have dedicated to its use not more than
20% of the gross floor area of the dwelling unit.
      (5)   The HOME OCCUPATION shall not be conducted in an accessory
building.
      (6)   No mechanical equipment shall be used in the business, except for
such as is normally used for domestic purposes.
      (7)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the dwelling
unit or any other aspect of the premises which would provide visible evidence
of the conduct of the home occupation other than one sign, not exceeding two
square feet in area, non-illuminated and mounted flat against the wall of the
dwelling unit.
      (8)   There shall not be more than one customer vehicle at a time parking
off-street and no customer parking shall be permitted in the street right-of-
way.
   HOSPITAL. A health care institution with an organized medical and
professional staff and with in- patient beds available on a 24-hour basis,
which has as its primary function to provide in-patient medical, nursing and
other health-related services to patients for both surgical and nonsurgical
conditions, and which usually provides some out-patient services, particularly
emergency care.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership
reserved primarily for and occupied as the temporary abiding place of
transients for compensation, exclusive of mobile home or recreational vehicle
parks, sanatorium, hospital, asylum, orphanage or building where persons are
housed under restraint.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, construction of curbs and gutters,
sidewalks, crosswalks, culverts, bridges, water lines, sanitary sewer lines,
force mains and lift stations, booster pump stations, storm sewer lines,
detention facilities, other utilities and other required features.
   INMATE TRANSITIONAL LIVING CENTERS. See HALFWAY HOUSE.
   INMATE WORK CENTERS, INMATE HALFWAY HOUSES and INMATE PRERELEASE CENTERS.
Shall have the same meanings as used in 57 O.S. or as defined by the Oklahoma
Department of Corrections.
   IN-PATIENT TREATMENT. See HOSPITAL.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person who engages in, does, or transacts any
temporary or transient business in the town and who, for the purpose of
carrying on such business, occupies any location for a period of less than 90
days.
   JAIL and CORRECTIONAL FACILITY. Public or private facilities providing for
the confinement of juvenile offenders, for the incarceration, confinement or
detention of individuals arrested for or convicted of a crime, or for the
punishment, correction and/or rehabilitation of individuals convicted of crimes
whose freedom is restricted.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person, firm, corporation or other legal
entity engages in the business of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire,
training for a fee, or selling dogs or cats.
   LABORATORY, SCIENTIFIC OR RESEARCH. Laboratories for research or testing,
but not for manufacturing, providing all work is conducted within an enclosed
building and no noise, odor, smoke or other element of the operation is
noticeable from outside the building.
   LIBRARY. A public facility for the use and loan, but not sale, of literary,
musical, artistic or reference materials.
   LOT. A parcel of land the location, size and dimension of which are
determined according to the most recent document legally filed of record
pertaining to the same.
   LOT AREA. The horizontal area included within lot lines, exclusive of any
property over which there is an easement for flood control and/or drainage
purposes.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot which has at least two adjacent sides abutting for their
full lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection
of the two sides is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The minimum distance between the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The boundaries of a lot and the boundaries shall be conterminous
with right-of-way lines for those portions of a lot which abut a street or
alley.
   LOT WIDTH. The minimum distance between the side lot lines, measured at the
front yard setback line, except where specifically otherwise provided.
   MAIN. A water or wastewater line designed and installed to distribute water
to or collect sewage from lateral or service lines.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Factory-built, single-family structures that meet the
National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act (42 U.S.C.§§
5401, 1978 as amended) commonly known as HUD (U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development Code) and which meets the town’s residential design
standards.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. A facility accommodating manufacturing processes that
involve and/or produce basic metals, building materials, chemicals, fabricated
metals, paper products, machinery, textiles, and/or transportation equipment,
where the intensity and/or scale of operations may cause significant impacts on
surrounding land uses or the community. Examples of HEAVY MANUFACTURING uses
include concrete product manufacturing, garbage transfer stations, glass
product manufacturing, plastic, rubber and other synthetic product
manufacturing, and textile and leather product manufacturing. Permitted uses
shall be conducted in a manner that no noxious odor, fumes or dust will be
emitted beyond the property line of the lot on which the use is located.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. A facility accommodating manufacturing processes
involving and/or producing; apparel; food and beverage products; electronic,
optical, and instrumentation products; ice; jewelry; and musical instruments.
LIGHT MANUFACTURING also includes other establishments engaged in the assembly,
fabrication and conversion of already processed raw materials into products,
where the operational characteristics of the manufacturing processes and the
materials used are unlikely to cause significant impacts on surrounding land
uses or the community. Examples of LIGHT MANUFACTURING uses include clothing
and fabric manufacturing, electronics and appliance manufacturing, and food and
beverage product manufacturing. Permitted uses shall be conducted in a manner
that no noxious odor, fumes or dust will be emitted beyond the property line of
the lot on which the use is located
   MASSAGE CLINIC. Any establishment having a fixed place of business where any
person, firm, association or corporation engages in or carries on or permits to
be engaged in or carried on the activity of MASSAGE defined as any method of
pressure on or friction against the external soft parts of the body with the
hand or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance
commonly used in this practice by a massage therapist.
   MEDIA BROADCAST SERVICES. Commercial and public communications, including
radio and television broadcasting and receiving stations and studios, with
facilities entirely within buildings. Does not include transmission and
receiving apparatus, including antennas and towers, which are instead defined
under telecommunications facilities.
   MEDICAL OR DENTAL FACILITY. The use of space by individuals licensed in the
state to practice medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, chiropractic, podiatry,
psychiatry, clinical psychology or other health-related professions on an
outpatient basis. The professional services provided in the medical office
space is for the occupant’s own patients and not for patients of unrelated
outside practitioners.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. Any retail medical marijuana establishment
licensed by the state and the town to sell or dispense medical marijuana or
medical marijuana products.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FOR PERSONAL USE. Any individual licensed by the
state and the town to grow up to 12 plants within a single residence for
personal medical use.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE FACILITY. Any wholesale or
storage establishment licensed by the state and the town that acquires,
possesses, stores, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, sells or
dispenses marijuana or related supplies and educational materials to the holder
of a valid medical marijuana dispensary license.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A system of describing and identifying land by measures
(metes) and direction (bounds) from an identifiable point of reference such as
a monument or other marker, the corner of intersecting streets or, in rural
areas, a tree or other permanent fixture.
   MIXED-USE. A development or structure which clusters homes, jobs, stores,
parks and services within walking distance of one another.
   MOBILE HOMES. A single-family dwelling, factory-built and factory assembled
residence which does not comply with the National Manufactured Homes
Construction Safety and Standards Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401, 1978 as
amended. The term MANUFACTURED HOMES is used for MOBILE HOMES constructed after
1978 when nationwide construction standards were adopted. The only MOBILE HOMES
in existence are those still in use that were constructed before 1978.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more
mobile/manufactured homes occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are
located, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for the accommodations.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A plot of ground indicated on an approved
site plan park designed for the accommodation of one mobile/manufactured home
and not located on a mobile/manufactured home sale lot.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and intended
for residential use where residence is in a mobile/manufactured home
exclusively and mobile home lots are sold for occupancy.
   MUSEUM. A building serving as a repository for a collection of natural,
scientific, or literary objects of interest, or works of art, and arranged and
designed to be used by members of the public for viewing, with or without
admission charge.
   NET FLOOR AREA. The gross floor of the building less non-public and non-
workspaces, such as storage rooms, hallways, warehouses, utility closets or
restrooms.
   NIGHT CLUB or DANCE HALL. A facility serving alcoholic beverages for on-site
consumption, and providing entertainment, examples of which include live music
and/or dancing, comedy and the like.
   NONCONFORMING. When used in combination with the following words:
      (1)   STRUCTURE. A structure in noncompliance with applicable setback,
coverage or height regulations but which, on the effective date of this
chapter, lawfully occupied the lot on which it is situated.
      (2)   USE. An activity carried on in noncompliance with applicable
district regulations but which, on the effective date of this chapter, lawfully
occupied the lot on which it is conducted.
   NURSING, CARE FACILITY, CONVALESCENT OR REST HOME.
      (1)   All those facilities required to be licensed under the Oklahoma
Nursing Home Care Act (63 O.S. §§ 1-1902 et seq.) to provide resident nursing
care facilities, and the definitions within the Oklahoma Nursing Home Care Act
shall be used in interpreting the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Drug and/or alcohol abuse treatment facilities are excluded from
this definition.
   OFFICIAL FILING DATE. The date upon which a development application that
contains all necessary elements required by this chapter is deemed complete by
the responsible official.
   OPEN DISPLAY, COMMERCIAL. The outdoor display of retail goods and products
located outside of an enclosed business. Open display uses such as car, truck
and boat sales and/or rentals are prohibited, except as a special permit use as
authorized under §
154.040 of this chapter.
   PARCEL. Same as LOT.
   PARKING AREA. A permanently surfaced area enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient
in size to store vehicles together with a permanent surfaced driveway
connecting all parking spaces with a street or alley.
   PARKING SPACE. A permanently surfaced area enclosed or unenclosed, being
eight and one-half feet in width and 18 feet in depth and intended for the
parking of vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. A parking space not on or extending over any
public easement or right-of-way.
   PERFORMANCE BOND AND/OR SURETY BOND. A financial guarantee to ensure that
all improvements, facilities or work required by this chapter will be completed
in compliance with the ordinance, regulations and approved plans and
specifications of the development.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit is issued.
   PERSON. Natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
   PEST CONTROL SERVICES. A commercial pest control business or occupation
which is performed primarily off-site. Only those support activities, such as
office work and storage of equipment is conducted at the business location and
provided:
      (1)   No on-site storage of more than 30 gallons of pesticide or
herbicide;
      (2)   No batch mixing of chemicals, other than individual tank mixing on
each truck operated on-site; and
      (3)   No repair of chemical equipment on-site.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, STORAGE AND WHOLESALE. A facility for the bulk storage
and wholesale distribution of gasoline, diesel fuel and/or other fuels and
petroleum products.
   PHARMACY. A retail store that primarily sells prescription drugs, which may
also sell non-prescription drugs and medical supplies, other health care
products, and a limited variety of convenience items.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The agency appointed by the Town Board of
Trustees as an advisory body to it and which is authorized to act on plats.
   PLAT. A map of a subdivision showing the location and boundaries of
individual parcels of land subdivided into lots, with streets, alleys,
easements and the like, drawn to scale; also includes minor, replat, and
amending plat. Shall refer to final plats meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
   PLAT, FINAL. A map of a land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for
filing of record in the office of the County Clerk with necessary affidavits,
dedications and acceptances, and with complete bearings and dimensions of all
lines defining lots and blocks, streets and alleys, public areas and other
dimensions of land.
   PLAT, MINOR. A subdivision plat resulting in three or fewer lots and
requires no new streets and minimal infrastructure extension that is processed
through an abbreviated process or the combination of five or fewer existing
lots of record into one.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map indicating the proposed layout of a subdivision
meeting the requirements herein enumerated and showing the character and
proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the suitability
of the proposed subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission for
consideration and approval.
   PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE. An initial meeting between developers and the
Zoning Administrator which affords the developer the opportunity to present
their proposals informally.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICES. Professional offices, such as accounting, real estate,
insurance, architectural or engineering offices, where chattels, goods, wares
or merchandise are not created, stored, exchanged or sold.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Drainage ways, roadways, parks, utilities or other
facilities which the town will ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement established which
affects the health, safety or welfare of the general public.
   PUBLIC PARK AND PLAYGROUND. A public area reserved for natural or artificial
landscaping, which may include recreational facilities and structures.
   PUBLIC SAFETY FACILITIES. A facility including ambulance dispatch
facilities, fire stations, other fire prevention and firefighting facilities,
police and sheriff substations and headquarters.
   PUBLIC UTILITY STATION. A structure or facility used by a public or quasi-
public utility agency to store, distribute, generate electricity, gas,
telecommunications, and related equipment, or to pump chemically treated water.
This does not include storage or treatment of sewage, solid waste or hazardous
waste.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM or PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM OF THE TOWN. Any systems built
and owned by or dedicated to and accepted by the town. All other systems are
private.
   PUBLISHER. An establishment engaged in printing by letterpress, lithography,
gravure, screen, offset or electrostatic (xerographic) copying; and other
establishments serving the printing trade such as bookbinding, typesetting,
engraving, photoengraving and electrotyping. This use also includes
establishments that publish newspapers, books and periodicals
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A site under private ownership designed and
intended to be used, by campers with recreational vehicles or tents.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS may include public restrooms, water, sewer and
electric hookups to each lot and may also include accessory retail uses where
they are clearly incidental and intended to serve RV park patrons only.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE. A plot of ground indicated on an approved site
plan within a recreational vehicle park designed for accommodation of one
recreational vehicle.
   REPLAT. The re-subdivision of any part or all of any block or blocks of a
previously platted subdivision.
   RETAIL, GENERAL. Stores and shops selling many lines of merchandise.
Examples of these stores and lines of merchandise include antique stores, craft
stores, clothing, shoes and accessories, hardware stores, recreational
equipment, religious goods, stationary and toy stores and shall be larger than
4,000 square feet.
   RETAIL, SPECIALTY. Stores and shops where the majority of the business is
devoted to the sale of specialty goods. Such uses include delicatessens,
pottery studios, tuxedo stores, small-scale bookstores, and video rental stores
and shall be no larger than 4,000 square feet.
   RESTAURANT OR EATING ESTABLISHMENT (DRIVE-IN). A building or portion thereof
where food and/or beverages are sold, and where a driveway is located so that
vehicles may drive up to a window and received food and/or beverages for
consumption either on the premises or elsewhere.
   RESTAURANT OR EATING ESTABLISHMENT (NOT DRIVE-IN TYPE). Any eating or
drinking establishment where the preparation and serving of food is the primary
business of such establishment. The term PRIMARY BUSINESS means that the gross
receipts from the sale of food are equal to or exceed 50% of the entire gross
receipts of such establishment.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. Any strip or area of land including surface, overhead
or underground space which is used or intended to be used wholly or in part as
a public street or alley, or as the location of public walkways and utility or
drainage facilities or installations.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more, but not exceeding 20 persons. A building which has
accommodations for more than 20 persons shall be a hotel, as defined herein.
   SALE BARN. Barns, pens and sheds for the temporary holding and sale of
livestock.
   SALVAGE OR JUNK YARD. Any land or building where metals, plumbing materials,
appliances, vehicles, vehicle parts, rags or paper, machinery or similar items
or material are kept, salvaged, stored, dismantled and/or offered for sale as
whole units, as salvaged parts or as processed materials.
   SCHOOL, BUSINESS. A business organized to operate for a profit and offering
instruction and training in a service or art such as secretarial school, barber
college, beauty school or commercial art school, but not including manual trade
schools.
   SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL TRADE. A business organized to operate for a profit and
offering instruction and training in a trade such as welding, bricklaying,
machinery operation and similar trades.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE, ELEMENTARY OR SECONDARY. A private institution intended for
the purpose of elementary or secondary education, which does not secure the
major part of its funding from public sources.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC. Consists of all free schools supported by public taxation,
and shall include nurseries, pre-schools, kindergartens, elementary and
secondary schools, and technology center schools, not to exceed two years of
junior college work, and such other schools, classes and instruction as may be
supported by the public.
   SECURITY. The bond, letter of credit, or cash escrow provided by the
developer to secure its promise in the improvement agreement.
   SELF-SERVICE LAUNDRY or DRY-CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT. Any attended or
unattended place, building or portion thereof, available to the general public
for the purpose of washing, drying, extracting moisture from or dry-cleaning
wearing apparel, cloth fabrics and textiles of any kind by means of a
mechanical appliance which is operated primarily by the customer.
   SERVICE TAP. A water or wastewater pipe of a design capacity extended from
the main to the property line to serve a single lot.
   SETBACK. The minimum yard specified.
   SHELTER. A temporary residential facility, which provides overnight
accommodations and incidental services for homeless persons and/or families on
a short-term basis.
   SHOOTING RANGE, INDOOR. An area enclosed at which a handgun, rifle or other
firearm is discharged at a target, designed to prevent a projectile fired from
a firearm at a target from going beyond the boundaries of the area, by use of a
backstop or other barrier that is designed to completely stop the projectile or
prevent a potentially dangerous ricochet.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The area formed by measuring from the point of intersection
of two lot lines a distance of 25 feet along each lot line and connecting the
points so established to create a triangle with at least one side abutting
street right-of-way.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. A basement
shall be counted as a STORY when more than one-half of its height is above the
average level of the adjoining ground or when subdivided and used for
commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor employed in the
premises.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the top floor
level and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area is finished
off for use. A HALF STORY containing living quarters shall be counted as a full
story.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way, other than
an alley, publicly maintained when any part of it is opened to the use of the
public for pedestrian and/or vehicular travel.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A fast or heavy traffic street of considerable continuity
and used basically as a traffic artery for travel among large areas of the
town. ARTERIAL STREETS may be further designated as primary or secondary
arterial streets.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which carries traffic from minor streets to
arterial streets or highways, including the principal entrance streets of a
residential development and streets for circulation in such a development.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC OR COURT. A dead-end street providing a turnaround for
vehicles.
   STREET, DEAD-END. A street, other than a cul-de-sac, with only one outlet.
   STREET, INDUSTRIAL. A street intended primarily to serve traffic within an
area of industrial development or proposed industrial development.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street which is intended primarily to serve traffic within
a neighborhood to provide access to residents, businesses or other abutting
property. Service to through movement is deliberately discouraged.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS. A local street which is parallel and adjacent to an
arterial street or highway and which provides access to abutting property and
protection from through traffic.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the lines which
delineate the right-of- way of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or which is attached to something having a location on
the ground.
   SUBDIVIDER. Same as DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land into two or more parts, lots, or sites for
the purpose of sale, building, development or division of ownership, whether
immediate or future.
   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT. A contract entered into by the developer
and the town by which the developer promises to complete the required public
improvements in the subdivision within a specified time period following final
plat approval.
   SUBMISSION DATE. The date an applicant delivers an application or petition
under this chapter to the Zoning Administrator, or the date on which an
applicant deposits an application or petition with the United States Postal
Service by certified mail addressed to the Zoning Administrator, along with all
required fees and documents.
   SUBSTANDARD PLATTED SUBDIVISION. A platted area deviating from or falling
short of the standards adopted by the town.
   SURETY. A bond, letter of credit or letter of financial guarantee from a
financial institution.
   SURVEYOR. A licensed state land surveyor or a registered professional land
surveyor as authorized by the state statutes to practice the profession of
surveying in the state.
   SWAP MEET, FLEA MARKET AND OTHER SIMILAR USES. A collection or group of
stalls, booths, tables or other similar arrangement, used by individual
vendors, for the display and sale of various items of new or used personal
property, either inside a building or outside in the open.
   SWIM OR TENNIS CLUB. A private recreational club where swimming, tennis and
other related uses take place, available only to private specific membership.
All private swimming and/or tennis clubs shall be properly lit, screened and be
open during regular business hours.
   SWIMMING POOL, COMMERCIAL. A structure located either indoors or outdoors
and designed to be primarily used for swimming or other related recreational or
athletic purposes, generally open to the public with an admission fee.
   TATTOO AND/OR BODY PIERCING SHOP. An establishment where the tattooing or
piercing of human body parts is administered.
   TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES. The site, structures, equipment and
appurtenances used to transmit, receive, distribute, provide or offer wireless
telecommunications services. This includes, but is not limited to, antennas,
poles, towers, cables, wires, conduits, ducts, pedestals, vaults, buildings,
electronics and switching equipment.
   TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT SERVICES - DAY LABOR BUSINESS. Any enterprise engaged
in procuring temporary employment for individuals who arrive and/or wait at the
premises in which the temporary employment business is located on a regular
basis for work assignments or transportation to a work site.
   THOROUGHFARE. Same as STREET.
   TRACT. Same as LOT.
   TRANSITIONAL LIVING FACILITY. Shelter provided for persons for an extended
period of time, where the space is re-occupied by another program recipient
after a set period. Generally, the housing is integrated with other social
services and counseling programs to assist in the transition to self-
sufficiency through the acquisition of a stable income and permanent housing.
Not for the housing of inmates.
   TRANSITIONAL MIXED-USE. Referring to the zoning district intended to provide
an acceptable range of blended land uses and controls that allow for business
uses at are compatible with residential uses.
   TREATMENT FACILITY. An institution designed for the care and rehabilitation
of patients suffering from drug and/or alcohol abuse or related problems. This
definition shall have the same meaning as defined in 43A O.S. § 3-403
pertaining to the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services Act.
   UNLIGHTED PRIVATE TENNIS COURT. A tennis court located within the rear yard
of a private residence. To safeguard the amenity of residential areas against
the adverse effects associated with the use of a private tennis court, an
application for special review must be submitted and reviewed by planning
staff.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. The portion of a lot which is open; not allocated to off-
street parking spaces, parking areas, streets or any public dedication and
unoccupied and unobstructed, provided that patios, natural landscaping and
recreational facilities shall not be deemed obstructions.
   UTILITY, PRIVATE. Services, and any related facilities (e.g., distribution
lines), not customarily provided by the town or public entities such as
electricity, natural gas and telecommunications.
   UTILITY, PUBLIC. Services, and any related facilities (e.g., distribution
lines), typically provided by the town, county or publicly owned entity such as
potable water distribution, wastewater collection, and storm water management.
   VACATE or VACATION. To make legally void.
   VEHICLE. A self-propelled mechanical device designed for use on streets and
highways for the conveyance of goods and people including, but not limited to,
the following: passenger cars; trucks; buses; and motorcycles.
   VEHICLE STORAGE. A service facility for the long-term storage of operative
cars, trucks, buses, recreational vehicles, and other motor vehicles, for
clients. Does not include auto salvage yards.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. A type of animal care facility where common household
pets are provided with preventative care and/or are treated for illness, injury
or disease, but does not include animal shelters.
   VIOLATION. Any failure to comply with this chapter.
   WAREHOUSE. A building or portion thereof used for storage of any
merchandise, stock, furnishings or vehicles of a business of any kind, except
that of storage area operated in conjunction with a retail business located on
the same property shall not be a WAREHOUSE.
   WAREHOUSE, MINI. A building or portion thereof used exclusively for storing
the excess personal property of an individual or family when such is not
located on the lot with their residence, such as a passenger automobile, house
trailer, motorcycle, boat, camper or other items of personal property generally
stored in residential accessory buildings, exclusive of any merchandise, stock,
furnishings or business vehicles of any kind.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. A utility facility for the collection and
treatment of sanitary sewage and storm water through mechanical, chemical and
biological processes for the purpose of improving the quality of wastewater.
   WHOLESALE OR WAREHOUSE ENTERPRISE. Establishments engaged in the storage and
sale of commercial goods or commodities, usually in bulk, for purchasers other
than individual customers. Examples include the wholesale distribution of
furniture, household goods, farm supplies and electrical, plumbing, heating and
air conditioning supplies and equipment, but not to include freight
distribution centers, large storage facilities or the use of delivery trucks in
the routine operation of the business.
   YARD. A space at grade between a building on a lot and the adjoining lot
line as measured by the shortest horizontal distance between the lot line and
the primary building.
   YARD, FRONT. The yard extending across a lot between the side lot lines and
established according to the first one of the conditions below which applies,
the conditions being prioritized in descending order.
      (1)   For planned or existing commercial or industrial uses, it is the
yard adjacent and parallel to a major street or expressway if the lots abut
such a facility;
      (2)   It is the yard adjacent and parallel to the street upon which the
lot has its shortest dimension; or
      (3)   It is the yard indicated as the front on the subdivision plat filed
of record.
   YARD, MINIMUM. The smallest yard that shall remain unoccupied, unobstructed
and without infringement by any structure on a lot.
   YARD, REAR. The yard(s) at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard
and extending across the lot between the side lot lines.
   YARD, SIDE. All yards on a lot other than front and rear yards and extending
across the lot between the front and rear lot lines.
   ZONING. Regulations governing the use of land and buildings and development
standards.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Town Administrator or his or her designee.
   ZOO. A facility owned and operated for a fee, where live animals, birds and
reptiles are housed and displayed.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
§ 154.035 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation and membership.
      (1)   A Planning Commission is hereby created and appointed by the
governing body. There shall be five regular voting members of the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   A quorum of the Commission shall consist of three members. Before
entering the performance of their duties each member shall take and subscribe
to the oath of office as required by law.
   (B)   Organization and meetings.
      (1)   The Commission shall select the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
from among its members. It is the duty of the Vice-Chairperson to preside over
all meetings in the absence of the Chairperson. The Commission shall keep its
own minutes and records.
      (2)   The Commission meetings shall be set by the Town Administrator on
an as needed basis, with notification as required by state law. Commission
meeting times shall also be determined by the Town Administrator. The
Commission may meet at other times as the Commission determines.
      (3)   Special meetings may be held upon the request of three members of
the Commission. At least 72 hours’ advance notice shall be given to the Town
Clerk of any special meetings.
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by the code, ordinance, rule, policy
or regulation of the Town Board of Trustees, the Planning Commission shall have
all the powers and duties prescribed for it by 11 O.S. § 11-45-103, 11 O.S. §
11-45-104cite and all other powers and duties now or hereafter prescribed for
it by any other provision of state law.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission’s powers and duties include, but
are not limited to:
         (a)   Recommend to the Town Board of Trustees all requests for
adoption or amendments to:
            1.   The comprehensive plan;
            2.   Special area plans, corridor plans and neighborhood plans; and
            3.   The text of this code and the zoning map, including zoning for
newly annexed territory.
         (b)   Hear and recommend to the Town Board of Trustees all requests
for:
            1.   Vacating public rights-of-way and easements pursuant to 11
O.S. §§ 42-102 et seq.;
            2.   Zoning changes, including rezoning and zoning of planned
developments;
            3.   Special permits;
            4.   Planned development outline development plan approvals and
major amendments;
            5.   A vested right as a part of any site-specific development
plan; and
            6.   Sewer variances.
         (c)   Decide all requests for:
            1.   Appeals;
            2.   Vacating any plat;
            3.   Special use permits; and
            4.   Other tasks as assigned by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
Statutory reference:   Authority to create Planning Commission with not less
than five members, see 11 O.S. § 11-45-101, 11 O.S. § 11-45-102
   Duties and powers of the Planning Commission, see 11 O.S. § 11-45-103
§ 154.036 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Creation and membership.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment of the town is hereby created consisting of
five appointive members, each of whom shall be a town resident and shall
represent the interests of the town as a whole.
      (2)   Members of the Board shall serve terms of three years.
      (3)   All vacancies shall be filled by appointment of the Town Board of
Trustees. A member’s seat on the Board shall be vacant when the member ceases
to reside in the town.
   (B)   Organization and meetings.
      (1)   The Board shall meet at least once a month, provided there is
business to be brought before the Board.
      (2)   The concurring vote of at least three members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination being
appealed from, to decide in favor of the applicant or to decide any matter
which may properly come before it.
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by this code, ordinance, rule, policy
or regulation of the Town Board of Trustees, the Board of Adjustment shall be
governed by 11 O.S. § 11-44-104.
      (2)   The Board shall have the power to:
         (a)   Hear and decide appeals;
         (b)   Hear and decide special requests to the chapter;
         (c)   Authorize in specific cases a variance from the terms, standards
and criteria that pertain to an allowed use category within a zoning district;
         (d)   Hear and decide requests for relief from the nonconforming
provisions established in §§
154.240 through
154.244;
         (e)   Variances to the landscape, buffering and screening
requirements; and
         (f)   Hear and decide variances to any provision of this code not
otherwise assigned to another review body.
   (D)   Applicants to the Board.
      (1)   (a)   Any aggrieved person, officer or unit of government may make
application to the Board requesting relief for the purposes stated in division
(C) of this section.
         (b)   The application must be submitted to the Board, along with all
required documents and fees, at least 30 days prior to the next scheduled Board
meeting in order to be considered at that meeting.
      (2)   Applications for an appeal shall be made as follows.
         (a)   The appeal shall be taken within 30 days from the date of the
decision of the administrative official; and
         (b)   The application shall be filed in writing with the official and
the Town Clerk. The application shall specify the grounds for the appeal.
      (3)   Applications for a variance shall be made as follows:
         (a)   The application shall be filed in writing with the Town Clerk.
The application shall indicate how the subject property meets the requirements
of division (G) of this section.
         (b)   The applicant shall submit with each application a list of names
and addresses of all record property owners within a 300-foot radius of the
exterior boundary of the subject property.
         (c)   Where the applicant requests a minor variance, he or she shall
submit a list of names and addresses of only those owners of property adjacent
to the subject property.
         (d)   The lists shall be current and certified by a bonded abstractor
or the County Assessor of Kingfisher County.
      (4)   The applicant shall deposit with the Town Clerk a fee as may be
established by resolution of the Town Board of Trustees. Upon receipt of a
properly filed application, it shall be placed on the Board agenda for hearing
within 60 days, and an administrative official shall transmit to the Board all
papers constituting the record upon which the application is made.
   (E)   Stay of proceedings on appeal.
      (1)   An appeal to the Board from a decision of an administrative
official stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from
unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board, after
the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by reason of facts stated
in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property.
      (2)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order, which may be granted by the Board or by a court of competent
jurisdiction upon application, upon notice to the officer from whom the appeal
is taken, and upon due cause being shown.
   (F)   Time and notice of hearings.
      (1)   Not less than ten days before the meeting of the Board, notice of
public hearing of the Board shall be given as follows:
         (a)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
town; and
         (b)   By mail in writing to all owners of property within a 300-foot
radius of the exterior boundary of the subject property; provided, that on
hearings involving minor variances, the notice shall be mailed to only those
owners of property adjacent to the subject property.
      (2)   Required notices shall contain:
         (a)   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the town;
         (b)   Present zoning classification of the property and the nature of
the application requested; and
         (c)   Date, time and place of hearing.
   (G)   Rules of decision.
      (1)   In order to grant any variance from the terms hereof, the Board
must find that all the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure or building in the same zoning district;
         (b)   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
         (c)   Granting the variance requested will not convey on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by ordinance to other lands, buildings or
structures in the same zoning district;
         (d)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of the code would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same zoning district under the terms hereof and would work unnecessary and
undue hardship on the applicant;
         (e)   The variance granted is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the land, building or structure;
         (f)   The grant of the variance will be in harmony with the general
intent and purpose hereof; and
         (g)   In granting any variance, the Board may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformity herewith.
      (2)   Violation of the conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation hereof.
   (H)   Hearing procedures.
      (1)   All deliberations of the Board shall be conducted, and all of its
decisions shall be made, at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (2)   At the time of the hearing, any person may appear in his or her own
behalf or be represented by agent or attorney.
         (a)   All decisions of the Board shall be made after motion has been
made and seconded.
         (b)   The motion which decides the issue shall be in the form of
findings of fact and shall state the reasons for the findings by the Board.
         (c)   If conditions are imposed in the granting of a variance, the
conditions shall be included in the motion.
      (3)   (a)   In reaching a decision on any motion, the Board shall record
the vote of each member or the absence or failure to vote.
         (b)   The minutes of all deliberations by the Board shall be
acknowledged as to accuracy by the Chairperson and shall be a part of the
public record of the Board. The minutes of the meeting at which a variance was
granted shall show that each element of a variance was established at the
public hearing on the questions.
   (I)   Appeals to the District Court.
      (1)   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment or order of
the Board may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or severally, or any
taxpayer or any officer, department, board or bureau of the municipality to the
District Court by filing a notice of appeal with the Town Clerk and with the
Board within 30 days from the date the decision of the Board is rendered, which
notice shall specify the grounds of the appeal. Upon filing of the notice of
appeal, as herein provided, the Board shall forthwith transmit to the Court
Clerk the original or certified copies of all the papers constituting the
record in the case, together with the order, decision or ruling of the Board.
      (2)   An appeal to the District Court from the Board stays all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the Chairperson
of the Board from which the appeal is taken, certifies to the Court Clerk,
after notice of appeal shall have been filed that by reason of facts stated in
the certificate a stay would in his or her opinion cause imminent peril to life
or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the District Court, upon application
or notice to the administrative officer in charge of the enforcement of the
terms and provisions of the zoning code, upon notice to the Chairperson of the
Board from which the appeal is taken and upon due cause being shown, the Court
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the decision brought up for
review.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Adjustment; appointment, see 11 O.S. § 11-44-101
   Board of Adjustment; meeting and rules, see 11 O.S. § 11-44-102   Similar
provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 11-44-104 et seq., 11 O.S. § 11-44-106cite, 11 O.S.
§§ 11-44-107 et seq., 11 O.S. §§ 11-44-110 et seq.cite
§ 154.037 SUMMARY OF AUTHORITY.
   The following table summarizes the required review and approval authority
provided under this chapter:
Review and Decision-Making Bodies
Procedure Zoning Administrator Planning and Zoning Town Board of Trustees BOA
                               Commission
Review and Decision-Making Bodies
Procedure            Zoning Administrator Planning and Zoning Town Board of BOA
                                          Commission          Trustees
Amendments: plan     R                    R-H                 D-H
Amendments: text     R                    R-H                 D-H
Amendments: rezoning R                    R-H                 D-H
Planned unit         R                    R-H                 D-H
developments
Site plan review     R-D                  A                                 A-H
Variance             R                                                      D-H
Annexation           R                    R-H                 D-H
Vacation of public
right-of-way or      R                    R                   D-H
easement
Vacation of plat     R                    R                   D-H
Special use permit   R                    D                   A             A-H
Subdivision          R-D                  R-D                 A             A-H
R= Review (responsible for review and/or recommendation)
H= Hearing (public hearing required)
D= Decision (responsible for final decision)
A= Appeal (authority to hear/decide appeals)
 
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.038 ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Procedures. All applications for a change to the zoning text or
official zoning map shall be made on forms provided by the Zoning
Administrator. The governing body or Planning Commission may initiate the
amendment of the zoning text or official zoning map.
   (B)   Materials and reviews. The following materials and procedures shall be
used to process an application for a change to the zoning map or text.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide title or other suitable proof of
ownership to the subject property.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide a correct legal description of the
subject property either in the form of a survey or a lot and block reference.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide a sketch of the subject property drawn
to scale that details the lot lines existing features or building, drives,
adjacent buildings and the current use of existing buildings.
      (4)   The applicant shall submit supporting material as requested by the
Zoning Administrator depending on the magnitude of the change and the
possibility of detrimental effects on surrounding properties. Supporting
materials may include but are not limited to:
         (a)   Topography at an appropriate scale;
         (b)   A certificate of survey;
         (c)   Environmental assessment;
         (d)   Surface water discharge analysis;
         (e)   Facilities and utilities suitability analysis;
         (f)   An analysis of existing wells, tanks and other substructures;
and
         (g)   Traffic and parking analysis.
      (5)   The applicant shall provide a list of the names and addresses of
owners of all property situated within 300 feet of the property lines of the
subject site. This list shall be current as of the date of submission. Persons
appearing on said list will be sent notice of the public hearing in compliance
with statutory requirements.
      (6)   With the application, the applicant shall provide a written
statement detailing the nature and reasons for the requested zoning change.
      (7)   All materials to be submitted by applicant shall be given to the
Zoning Administrator at least 30 days in advance of a public hearing.
      (8)   A rezoning fee, established within the fee schedule for the unified
development code, shall be submitted with the rezoning application.
   (C)   Procedures for public hearings.
      (1)   All recommendations for an amendment to the zoning text or official
zoning map shall first be submitted to the Planning Commission for
recommendation.
      (2)   Notice of a hearing for a zoning map amendment shall be published
once, at least 15 days in advance of the hearing in the official town
newspaper.
      (3)   The applicant shall mail a copy of said publication notice by U.S.
mail, certified, return receipt requested and prepaid, to each owner of record
of land within a distance of 300 feet of the perimeter of such proposed change,
at least 15 days prior to said hearing; sufficient copies of said notice for
such purpose to be provided by the Town Clerk.
      (4)   When the Planning Commission has acted upon an application for
rezoning, an ordinance shall be prepared and introduced before the Town Board
of Trustees at a public hearing on the same date as set forth in the notice to
property owners provided in the preceding section. The Town Board of Trustees
may continue that hearing from time to time, prior to final action thereon.
      (5)   No rezoning application which has been heard and decided by the
Town Board of Trustees shall be resubmitted for a period of six months from the
hearing, except on the ground of new evidence or proof of changed conditions.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.039 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).
   (A)   Purpose. A planned unit development (PUD) is established as an overlay
zoning district and is intended as an alternative to conventional development.
Approval of a PUD requires the submission to the Planning Commission and the
Town Board of Trustees of a proposed outline development plan and accompanying
development standards applicable to a particular tract, for discretionary
review. The PUD provisions are established for one or more of the following
purposes:
      (1)   To permit and encourage innovative land development while
maintaining appropriate limitation on the character and intensity of use and
assuring compatibility with adjoining and proximate properties;
      (2)   To permit greater flexibility within the development to best
utilize the physical features of the particular site in exchange for greater
public benefits than would otherwise be achieved through development under this
chapter;
      (3)   To encourage the provision and preservation of meaningful open
space;
      (4)   To encourage integrated and unified design and function of the
various uses comprising the planned unit development; and/or
      (5)   To encourage a more productive use of land consistent with the
public objectives and standards of accessibility, safety, infrastructure and
land use compatibility.
   (B)   Planned unit development submission requirements; five-step
application and review procedure. The developer and/or builder of a PUD shall
follow a five-step application and review procedure:
      (1)   Mandatory pre-application conference;
      (2)   Application for rezoning, submission of PUD master plan, including
the design statement and master development plan map;
      (3)   Preliminary plat, where required by the subdivision regulations;
      (4)   Final plat, where required by the subdivision regulations; and
      (5)   Application for building permit and site plan reviewed by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Public hearings shall be held on the application for rezoning and
the PUD master plan in accordance with regular procedures for zoning
applications.
      (2)   Public hearings on required plats shall be held in accordance with
regular procedures established in the subdivision regulations.
   (D)   Planned unit development review procedures.
      (1)   Step 1. Pre-application review. At least ten business days prior to
submission of an application for rezoning to a planned unit development, the
applicant shall submit to the Zoning Administrator a sketch plan drawn to
approximate scale showing streets, lots, public areas and other significant
features.
         (a)   The applicant should discuss with the Zoning Administrator the
procedure for adopting a planned unit development and the requirements for the
general layout of streets and utilities, access to arterials, or general design
and narrative, the availability of existing services, and similar matters.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall also advise the applicant, where
appropriate, to discuss the proposed planned unit development with those
officials who must eventually review the various aspects of the proposal coming
within their jurisdiction.
         (c)   The intent of the pre-application review is to expedite and
facilitate the approval of a PUD master plan.
      (2)   Step 2. Application for rezoning and pud master plan.
         (a)   Procedures and requirements. The PUD application for rezoning
shall be filed in accordance with regular procedures and on application forms
from the town. The PUD master plan, which is submitted with the application for
rezoning, shall consist of a design statement and a master development plan
map. The applicant shall also provide other supporting maps as necessary to
meet the submission requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Master development plan map. The master development plan map
shall be a graphic representation of the development plan for the area.
         (c)   PUD design statement. The PUD design statement shall be a
written report submitted as a part of the PUD master plan containing a minimum
of the following elements:
            1.   Title of PUD;
            2.   List of the owners and/or developers;
            3.   Statement of the general location and relationship to
adjoining land uses, both existing and proposed;
            4.   Description of the PUD concept, including an acreage or square
foot breakdown of land use areas and densities proposed, a general description
proposed, a general description of building use types, proposed restrictions
and typical site layouts;
            5.   The existing PUD zoning districts in the development area and
surrounding it;
            6.   Selection of one conventional zoning district as a base zoning
district to regulate all uses and development regulations not identified as
being modified;
            7.   A list of all applicable special development regulations or
modified regulations to the base zoning district; plus a list of requested
variations to the subdivision regulations or other applicable development
regulations;
            8.   A statement on the existing and proposed streets, including
right-of-way standards and street design concepts;
            9.   The following physical characteristics: elevation; slope
analysis; soil characteristics; tree cover; and drainage information;
            10.   A topographic map with minimum five-foot contour intervals;
            11.   Drainage information, including number of acres in the
drainage area and delineation of applicable flood levels;
            12.   Applicable hydrologic report, including erosion control plan
pursuant to the state’s Department of Environmental Quality requirements;
            13.   A statement of utility lines and services to be installed,
including which lines will be dedicated to the town and which will remain
private;
            14.    The proposed densities, and the use types and sizes of
structures; and
            15.   A description of the proposed sequence of development.
         (d)   Approval of the PUD master plan.
            1.   Upon final approval by the Town Board of Trustees of the PUD
master plan and the appropriate ordinance of rezoning, these elements shall
become a part of the official zoning district map.
            2.   The ordinance of rezoning shall adopt the PUD master plan by
reference, and it shall be attached to said ordinance and become a part of the
official records of the town.
         (e)   Expiration of PUD master plan. If, after three years from the
date of approval of a PUD master plan, no substantial development progress has
been made within the PUD, then the PUD master plan shall expire. If a PUD
master plan expires, a new PUD master plan must be submitted and approved
according to the procedures of this chapter.
         (f)   Use and development of the property. The PUD master plan shall
control the use and development of the property, and all building permits and
development requests shall be in accord with said plan until it is otherwise
amended by the Town Board of Trustees.
         (g)   The developer shall furnish a reproducible copy of the approved
master development plan map for signature by the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission, the Mayor, and acknowledgment by the Town Clerk. The PUD master
plan, including the signed map and all supporting data, shall be made a part of
the permanent file and maintained by the Town Clerk.
      (3)   Step 3. Preliminary plat.
         (a)   Upon approval of the PUD master plan and the ordinance of
rezoning, the developer shall prepare a preliminary plat for the entire
development area.
         (b)   Where a recorded plat exists and where there will be no
extensive easements, no property owners’ associations, no plat restrictions and
no sale of lots which do not conform to the platted lot lines, the Planning
Commission may waive the platting requirement.
      (4)   Step 4. Final plat.
         (a)   Where a subdivision plat has been required, the developer shall
prepare a final plat for review, approval and filing of record according to
procedures established by the Planning Commission and Town Board of Trustees.
         (b)   In addition to these procedures, the final plat shall include:
            1.   Provisions for the ownership and maintenance of common open
space. Said open space may be dedicated to a private association or to the
public provided that a dedication to the public shall not be accepted without
the approval of the Town Board of Trustees; and
            2.   A homeowners’ or property owners’ association shall be created
if other satisfactory arrangements have not been made for improving, operating,
and maintaining common facilities, including private street drives, service and
parking areas, and recreation areas.
      (5)   Step 5. Site plan. A site plan shall be submitted upon the
application for a building permit and reviewed in accordance with procedures
established in §
154.041 of this chapter.
   (E)   Modifications.
      (1)   Minor amendments and adjustments. The Zoning Administrator shall be
permitted to approve minor amendments and adjustments to the PUD master plan
provided the following conditions are satisfied.
         (a)   The project boundaries are not altered.
         (b)   Uses other than those specifically approved in the PUD master
plan are not added. Uses maybe deleted but not to the extent that the character
of the project is substantially altered.
         (c)   The allocation of land to particular uses or the relationship of
uses within the project are not substantially altered.
         (d)   The density of housing is not increased more than 10% or
decreased by more than 30%.
         (e)   The land area allocated to nonresidential uses is not increased
or decreased by more than 10%.
         (f)   Floor area, if prescribed, is not increased or decreased by more
than 20%.
         (g)   Floor area ratios, if prescribed, are not increased.
         (h)   Open space ratios, if prescribed, are not decreased.
         (i)   Height restrictions, setback requirements, coverage restrictions
and other areas, height and bulk requirements prescribed in the PUD master plan
are not substantially altered.
         (j)   The circulation system is not substantially altered in design,
configuration or location.
         (k)   The design and location of access points to the project are not
substantially altered either in design or capacity.
      (2)   Zoning Administrator approval. The Zoning Administrator shall
determine if proposed amendments to an approved master development plan satisfy
the above criteria. If the Zoning Administrator finds that these criteria are
not satisfied, an amended PUD master plan shall be submitted for full review
and approval according to the procedures set forth in these regulations.
      (3)   Reversion; property owner request.
         (a)   If the property owner decides to abandon the PUD concept and
nullify the PUD master plan, he or she shall make application for rezoning
either to the original status or to a new classification.
         (b)   Said application shall be heard according to regular procedures
by the Planning Commission and Town Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Planned Unit Developments, see
Chapter 153
§ 154.040 SPECIAL USE PERMIT (SUP).
   (A)   Purpose. Special uses are those uses which generally are incompatible
with the permitted land uses in a given zoning district, but which require
individual review of their location, design and configuration and the
imposition of conditions in order to ensure the appropriateness of the use at a
particular location within a given zoning district. A special use permit shall
be required prior to the establishment of any special use identified in §
154.076 or elsewhere in this code.
   (B)   Review and approval. The Planning Commission shall review each case on
its own merit, apply the criteria established herein, and recommend either
approval or denial of the special use permit to the Town Board of Trustees.
Following the Planning Commission’s recommendation, the Town Board of Trustees
shall review each case on its own merit, apply the criteria established herein,
and, if appropriate, authorize said use by granting a special use permit.
   (C)   Application and criteria for special use permit approval.
      (1)   Application. Application and public hearing procedures for a
special permit shall be completed in the same manner as an application for
rezoning. A site plan shall be included with the application as outlined in §
154.041 of this chapter.
      (2)   Special use permit criteria. The Town Board of Trustees shall use
the following criteria to evaluate a special use permit:
         (a)   Whether the proposed use shall be in harmony with the policies
of the comprehensive plan;
         (b)   Whether the proposed use shall be in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of the applicable zoning district regulations;
         (c)   Whether the proposed use shall not adversely affect the use of
neighboring properties;
         (d)   Whether the proposed use shall not generate pedestrian and
vehicular traffic that is hazardous or in conflict with the existing and
anticipated traffic in the neighborhood; and
         (e)   Whether utility, drainage, parking, loading, signs, lighting
access and other necessary public facilities to serve the proposed use shall
meet the adopted codes of the town.
      (3)   Specific conditions. The Town Board of Trustees may impose specific
conditions regarding location, design, operation and screening to assure
safety, to prevent a nuisance, and to control the noxious effects of excessive
sound, light, odor, dust or similar conditions.
   (D)   Status of special use permits. Once a special use permit has been
granted for a lot, said special use permit may not be expanded to another lot
without application for a new special use permit.
   (E)   Expiration of special use permits. All special use permits shall
expire by default.
      (1)   Non-establishment.
         (a)   If the use is not established within 12 months and no extension
is approved.
         (b)   When a building permit has not been issued for construction
within 12 months of Town Board of Trustees approval the applicant or owner may
request a hearing for an extension of the initial special use permit approval.
Good cause for an extension shall mean that the owner shows evidence that he or
she has contractors or applications for continual development within the next
year following the original approval.
      (2)   Discontinuance. If the use once established has been discontinued
for a period of 12 months or abandoned.
      (3)   Lack of substantial compliance. Whenever the Zoning Administrator
finds that any proposed construction or occupancy will not, in his or her
opinion, substantially comply with the special use permit, he or she shall
refer the question to the Town Board of Trustees for its review.
      (4)   Amendment. When the holder of a special use permit determines that
an extension of time or modification of the use is necessary, he or she may
apply for amendment in the same manner as the original application. The
amendment shall be processed in the same manner as an original application.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.041 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Scope.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, no building permit shall be issued
for the construction, erection or alteration of any building or structure
without first submitting a site plan and obtaining approval of the same from
the Zoning Administrator as set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   The following are exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
         (a)   The construction, erection or alteration of single-family or
two-family structures; and
         (b)   A building, or addition to an existing building, with a gross
floor area less than 10% of the combined gross floor areas of all existing
buildings on the lot where the proposed building or addition is to be located.
      (3)   This exemption shall not apply where the granting of an exemption
for the proposed building or addition would cause the sum of all exemptions to
exceed 10% of the lot area.
   (B)   Submission requirements. Three copies of the site plan and one digital
copy shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator at least 30 working days in
advance of a scheduled Planning Commission or Board of Adjustment hearing and
shall contain the following:
      (1)   The boundary lines of the area included in site plan, including
angles, dimensions and reference to a section corner, quarter corner for point
on a recorded plat, a north arrow and the lot area of the land included in the
site plan;
      (2)   A location map indicating the subject lot and one block in all
directions;
      (3)   Physical indication of boundaries, such as monuments, markers and
fences and all encroachments or deviations from description of subject property
or conflict with descriptions of adjacent properties;
      (4)   Easements, rights-of-way, setback lines or special uses required by
deed restrictions, public regulations or existing by right of agreement and
location and dimensions of each of the foregoing;
      (5)   Name, width and type of streets, drives, roads, alleys, curbs,
bridges, culverts, walks or steps, both on the site or adjacent thereto, any
streets, drives, roads or alleys which are to be dedicated for public use and
maintenance shall also be indicated as public;
      (6)   Sewers, storm and sanitary, and manholes or inlets, including those
on or adjacent to the property and type, size, location, elevations and
direction of flow of each;
      (7)   Location and size of gas and water mains, also all fire hydrants
within 300 feet shall be located;
      (8)   Existing buildings or structures on property, with height, size,
location and description of use for each;
      (9)   Existing and proposed elevations over the entire property by
accurately platted contour lines at a one-foot vertical interval and the
elevations of a reasonable portion of adjacent property;
      (10)   The proposed method of providing for stormwater drainage;
      (11)   Elevations of existing streets, roads, drives, walks, curbs and
catch basins;
      (12)   The location and dimensions, including height, of all proposed
structures, showing distances from outside lines of buildings and structures to
property lines and showing finished ground and basement floor elevations;
      (13)   The location, dimensions and type of surfacing for proposed
driveways, parking spaces, loading spaces and on-site sidewalks (all parking
areas shall indicate the type of paving through the use of a typical section);
      (14)   Locate each dumpster pad (the pad shall be constructed of concrete
and dimensioned ten feet by ten feet by six inches. Pads shall be readily
accessible to rear loading sanitation trucks);
      (15)   The location, height and type of each wall, fence and all other
types of screening;
      (16)   Demonstration that hazards or damage to other property will not be
created by any channeling, cutting, filling, bulk-heading or other treatment of
water flow from or past the site;
      (17)   The site plan shall indicate if the development is to proceed in
phases or not;
      (18)   A description of all processes and activities involved in the
proposed use;
      (19)   A legal description of the land included in the site plan; and
      (20)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner, developer and
designer.
   (C)   Conditions for approval; appeals.
      (1)   No site plan shall be approved unless it is in proper form,
contains all of the required information and is in conformance with these
regulations and with all other ordinances of the town.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may approve the site plan when the above
requirements have been met and when all the following specific requirements
have been met:
         (a)   The proposed use and construction conform to §§
154.310 through
154.312 of this chapter;
         (b)   The lot has been platted or subdivided in accordance with §§
154.290 through
154.299 of this chapter;
         (c)   All of the public improvements enumerated in §§
154.325 through
154.332 of this code of chapter either have been installed or are included in
the development plan;
         (d)   The proposed driveways, parking spaces, loading spaces and
sidewalks are designed to provide an efficient and safe movement of traffic;
         (e)   Screening is provided as required by ordinance; and
         (f)   The proposed method of providing for stormwater drainage, both
surface and subsurface, is in conformance with the requirements contained in §§
154.325 through
154.332 pertaining to design standards for storm drainage facilities.
      (3)   If the submitted site plan does not comply with an approved
development plan, any condition imposed on that development plan or applicable
regulations of the chapter, the Zoning Administrator must disapprove the site
plan and advise the applicant in writing of the specific reasons for
disapproval.
      (4)   (a)   If the Zoning Administrator does not approve the site plan,
the applicant may either:
            1.   Resubmit the site plan to correct the plan’s inconsistencies
and deficiencies; or
            2.   Within 60 days of the date of notice of disapproval, appeal
the decision of the Zoning Administrator by filing a notice of appeal with the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   If such an appeal is filed, the site plan must be reviewed by
the Planning Commission following the hearing and notice requirements that
apply to minor amendments of approved development plans. The Planning
Commission’s decision may be appealed following the procedures of §§
154.035 through
154.042 of this chapter.
      (5)   Site plan approval, in and of itself, does not constitute effective
dedication of rights-of-way or any other public improvements, nor will the site
plan be the equivalent of or an acceptable alternative to the final platting of
land prior to the issuance of building permit.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.042 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose and scope.
      (1)   The variance process is intended to provide limited relief from the
requirements of this chapter in those cases where strict application of a
particular requirement will create a practical difficulty or unnecessary
hardship prohibiting the use of land in a manner otherwise allowed under this
chapter.
      (2)   It is not intended that variances be granted to:
         (a)   Allow a use in a zone district where it is not permitted by this
chapter; or
         (b)   Merely remove inconveniences or financial burdens that the
requirements of this chapter may impose on property owners in general.
      (3)   Rather, it is intended to provide limited relief where the
requirements of this chapter render the land difficult or impossible to use
because of some unique physical attribute of the property itself or some other
factor unique to the property for which the variance is requested. State and/or
federal laws or requirements may not be varied by the town.
   (B)   Conditions. In granting a variance, the Board of Adjustment may impose
such conditions, safeguards and restrictions as may be necessary to reduce or
minimize any potentially injurious effect of such variance upon other property
in the neighborhood, and to carry out the general purpose and intent of this
chapter.
   (C)   Procedure. The applicant for variance shall complete and file the
appropriate application form(s) with the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall determine if the application is complete. Complete
applications shall be scheduled for review at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board of Adjustment. Notice shall be provided as required by
these regulations.
   (D)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board of
Adjustment may file for an appeal in the Kingfisher County District Court.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.055 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The town is hereby divided into the following zoning districts as
defined in this chapter and shown on the official zoning map.
   (B)   The zoning districts shall be designated as follows and may be
referred to by full name or by symbol only.
Zoning Districts
Symbol Name of District
Zoning Districts
Symbol Name of District
   Agricultural Districts
A-1    Agricultural District
   Residential Districts
RE     Residential Estate District
R-1    Low Density Residential District
R-2    Medium Density Residential District
R-3    High Density Residential District
RM     Mobile Home Park District
   Commercial Districts
LC     Light Commercial District
HC     Heavy Commercial District
   Industrial Districts
I-1    Light Industrial District
I-2    Heavy Industrial District
   Special Districts
MU-1   Transitional Mixed-Use District
DM     Downtown Mixed-Use District
 
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.056 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Establishment. The location and boundaries of the zoning districts
defined in this chapter must be established by ordinance and shown on the
town’s official zoning map, which shall be entitled “Zoning Map of the Town of
Hennessey” and which shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk and
maintained under the direction of the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Maintenance and updates. The Zoning Administrator is responsible for
directing revisions to the official zoning map to reflect its amendment as soon
as possible after the effective date of zoning map amendments (rezoning).
   (C)   District boundaries.
      (1)   Zoning district boundary lines must be described by legal
description or by a map that accompanies the ordinance establishing the
district or amending the district boundaries.
      (2)   When a legal description is used, the zoning district boundary is
deemed to extend to the centerline of abutting streets.
      (3)   When a map is used, district boundary lines must be established by
dimensions, property lines, recorded lot lines, or the centerline of abutting
streets, alleys or railroad rights-of-way, as those features were of record at
the time of adoption.
   (D)   Map interpretations. Where any uncertainty exists about a zoning
boundary, the actual location of the boundary will be determined by the Zoning
Administrator using the following rules of interpretation.
      (1)   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately following a
river, stream, lake or other watercourse will be construed as following the
actual centerline of the watercourse. If, subsequent to the establishment of
the boundary, the centerline of the watercourse should move as a result of
natural processes (flooding, erosion, sedimentation and the like), the boundary
will be construed as moving with the centerline of the watercourse.
      (2)   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately following a
ridge line or topographic contour line will be construed as following the
actual ridge line or contour line. If, subsequent to the establishment of the
boundary, the ridge line or contour line should move as a result of natural
processes (erosion, slippage, subsidence and the like), the boundary will be
construed as moving with the ridge line or contour line.
      (3)   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately following lot
lines or other parcel boundaries assigned by the Town Assessor will be
construed as following such lot lines or parcel boundaries.
      (4)   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately following a
street or railroad line will be construed as following the centerline of the
street or railroad right-of-way.
      (5)   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately following the
boundary of an adjacent municipality will be construed as following that
boundary.
      (6)   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately parallel to, or
as an apparent extension of, a feature described above will be construed as
being actually parallel to, or an extension of, the feature.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.057 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A-1).
   The A-1 District is established for the following purposes:
   (A)   To provide for the continued use of land for predominately
agricultural purposes;
   (B)   To preserve undeveloped areas until they can feasibly be developed at
urban standards and with adequate public safeguards of health, safety and
welfare; and
   (C)   To provide a base (or holding) zoning district for all newly annexed
property.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.058 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Residential Estate (RE). The RE District is intended to promote and
encourage a suitable environment for residential development on large parcels
of land at a low rate of urban population density. It is the intent of this
district to encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land for
single-family dwellings, and to prohibit commercial and industrial use or any
other use that would substantially interfere with development or continuation
of single-family dwellings or any use not performing a neighborhood function.
The district also is intended to encourage low to moderate density
neighborhoods to help manage the floodplain and encourage low density near and
around flood prone and low-lying areas. On-site sewage disposal may be used in
this district; future rezoning to the RE District should be consistent with the
town’s plans for sanitary sewer line extension.
   (B)   Low-Density Residential District (R-1). The R-1 District is intended
to promote and encourage the construction of and continued use of land for
single-family dwellings with a greater density than the RE District but a
lesser density than the R-2 District. The district prohibits commercial, office
and industrial uses or any other use that would substantially interfere with
the development or continuation of single-family dwellings in the district.
   (C)   Medium-Density Residential District (R-2).
      (1)   The R-2 Medium Density Residential District provides a slightly
higher population density but with basic restrictions similar to the R-
1 District. The principal use of this land is for single-family or multi-family
dwellings and related recreational, religious, social and educational
facilities normally required to provide a balanced and attractive residential
area.
      (2)   These areas are intended to be defined and protected from the
encroachment of uses not performing a function necessary to the residential
environment. Internal stability, attractiveness, order and efficiency are
encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and open space for dwellings
and related facilities and through the consideration of the proper functional
relationship and arrangement of each element.
   (D)   Residential Multi-Family (R-3). The R-3 District is intended to
accommodate the development of multi-family units, including apartments and
condominiums. It is the intent of this district, through proper site planning
and design, to provide compatibility of uses in zoning, assure privacy and
individuality by adequate screening techniques, protect adjacent property
values, and make provisions for usable open space (exclusive of parking areas
and streets).
   (E)   Mobile Home Park District (RM).
      (1)   Generally. The MH District is intended to encourage the development
of properly planned mobile home parks and subdivisions in residential
environments and to establish standards for the size, design, and quality of
mobile home parks.
      (2)   Mobile Home Park District (RM) regulations.
         (a)   Temporary parking.
            1.   It shall be unlawful and an offense to park any recreational
vehicle or mobile/manufactured home on any street, alley, highway or other
public place or on any tract of land occupied or unoccupied, except when
located in approved recreational vehicle parks or mobile/manufactured home
parks; provided the temporary parking of recreational vehicles is authorized
under the following conditions.
               a.   An occupied recreational vehicle may be temporarily parked
for a period of not more than 48 hours in any 12-month period in the
residential and institutional zoning districts of the town.
               b.   Temporary parking of a recreational vehicle shall not be on
a street, alley, public right-of-way, parks or other public property, but the
vehicle shall be parked entirely on private property with the consent of the
owner thereof.
               c.   No liquid waste shall be disposed of or dumped into or on
any public property, private property, storm or sanitary sewers, but rather all
waste shall be held in holding tanks completely within or upon the vehicle.
Solid waste shall be disposed of in accordance with the ordinances and
regulations of the town.
            2.   Emergency or temporary stopping is permitted in any street,
alley or highway for not longer than one-hour subject to any other or further
prohibition, regulations or limitations imposed upon the traffic and parking
regulations or ordinances for that street, alley or highway.
            3.   Any owner of a recreational vehicle may park or store the
equipment on private residential property, provided that no person shall occupy
the recreational vehicle while so parked, except as provided in division (E)(2)
(a)1. of this section for temporary parking.
         (b)   Application of regulations to existing and new parks.
            1.   a.   Those parks lawfully in existence before the initial date
of passage of this section shall not be governed by the regulations and
standards of this section unless specifically stated herein.
               b.   However, no existing park shall be permitted to expand or
have placed a greater number of mobile/manufactured homes or travel trailers
within its existing boundaries unless these additional units conform to all of
the regulations and standards of this section. Any existing park shall not be
expanded beyond its existing boundaries unless the newly expanded area conforms
to all the regulations and standards of this section.
            2.   All new parks planned for development after the date of
initial passage of this section shall conform to the regulations and standards
established herein.
         (c)   Building permit required. Any person desiring to construct,
erect, alter or repair a park or any addition thereto shall, before commencing
work thereon, secure a building permit from the town inspector to do so. No
permit shall be required for the addition of steps, window or door awnings,
antennas, skirting or porches.
            1.   All construction, plumbing and electrical alterations or
repairs shall be made in accordance with the regulations of the town and state
statutes.
            2.   Building permits may be issued only in accordance with an
approved site plan, as required in §
154.041.
            3.   Penalty: any person who violates any provision of this chapter
or fails to comply with any requirement hereof shall upon conviction be subject
to penalty under §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
         (d)   Location and layout requirements.
            1.   Intensity of development for a new mobile/manufactured home
park shall be limited to no more than ten mobile/manufactured homes per gross
acres. Recreational vehicle parks shall be limited to 20 recreational vehicles
per gross acre.
            2.   Every mobile/manufactured home or recreational vehicle space
shall be clearly defined in a new park. Mobile/manufactured home spaces shall
be at least 30 feet wide, and recreational vehicle spaces shall be no less than
25 feet wide. Mobile/manufactured homes shall be parked in the spaces that, at
the nearest point, they shall be ten feet from the service road, ten feet from
all property lines and at least 15 feet from any other mobile/manufactured home
or recreational vehicle.
               a.   The space or pad on which a mobile/manufactured home or
recreational vehicle is parked shall be constructed of asphaltic or portland
cement concrete.
               b.   This requirement may be satisfied with two asphaltic or
portland cement concrete driveway ribbons, separated by more than four feet
with an area which shall be treated to kill all vegetation and filled with
crushed rock to a depth of not less than two inches.
            3.   Recreational vehicle parks shall make provisions for tent
camping. Ten percent of the spaces, in a recreational vehicle park may be
assigned to tent camping only, and the space shall be constructed of sandy
soil.
               a.   It shall be unlawful to permit a mobile/ manufactured home
or recreational vehicle to be located in a park unless it is placed in a
designated mobile/ manufactured home or recreational vehicle space as indicated
on an approved site plan.
               b.   No structure other than a mobile/ manufactured home shall
be permitted on a mobile/ manufactured home space, except that one structure of
not to exceed 100 square feet may be used for storage on each space, and the
park owners’ home and/or park office may be permitted. No storage buildings are
permitted on a recreational vehicle space.
            4.   At least two clearly defined parking spaces will be provided
for each mobile/ manufactured home entirely on the mobile/ manufactured home
space. At least one parking space shall be provided for each recreational
vehicle space either on or adjacent to the recreational vehicle space
            5.   It shall be unlawful to locate a mobile/manufactured home or
recreational vehicle less than 25 feet from any public street or highway right-
of-way or so that any part of the mobile/manufactured home or recreational
vehicle will obstruct any roadway or walkway of a new park.
            6.   a.   All mobile/manufactured home spaces shall abut upon a
drive of not less than 30 feet in width. All recreational vehicle spaces shall
abut upon a drive of not less than 20 feet in width. All driveways within a
park shall be constructed with a minimum of two and one-half inches of
asphaltic concrete on a six-inch compacted subbase or four inches of portland
concrete on a four-inch sand cushion base. Driveways must have unobstructed
access to a public street or highway. Recreational vehicle parks shall have
major means of access from at least a major thoroughfare as designated on the
comprehensive plan.
               b.   All parks shall have and maintain a buffer strip at least
ten feet wide, along all park boundaries not bordering a street. The strip
shall be bordered by a six-foot, sight-proof fence.
         (e)   Recreational service facilities and buildings.
            1.   At least one service building shall be provided in each travel
trailer park to house sanitation facilities.
            2.   Service buildings shall be constructed to conform to the
following provisions in addition to this subchapter and the Building Code of
the town.
            3.   A service building shall:
               a.   Be located no less than 25 feet and no more than 200 feet
from any travel trailer space;
               b.   Be of permanent construction and be adequately lighted;
               c.   Be of moisture-resistant material, to permit frequent
washing and cleaning;
               d.   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature
of 70°F during cold weather and to supply adequate hot water during peak
demands; and
               e.   Have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings
effectively screened.
         4.   Recreation vehicle water supply, sewer facilities and the like.
               a.   Provisions shall be made within 150 feet of each travel
trailer space to supply water for recreational vehicle reservoirs.
               b.   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they
shall be of a type and in location approved by the health officer.
               c.   Sanitary dump stations approved by the health officer shall
be provided to adequately serve the recreational vehicle park at times of
maximum usage. The facility is to be connected to the town sanitary sewer
system.
               d.   Toilets and one urinal for the first ten recreational
vehicles or fraction thereof and for recreational vehicles in excess often not
less than one additional urinal for every ten additional recreational vehicles
or fractional number thereof.
               e.   Toilet facilities for females shall consist of not less
than two flush toilets for the first six recreational vehicle spaces or any
less number thereof and for recreational vehicle spaces in excess of six not
less than one additional flush toilet for every ten additional recreational
vehicle spaces in excess of six or fractional number thereof.
               f.   Toilet facilities for males and females shall not have less
than two lavatories and two showers with individual dressing accommodations for
the first ten recreational vehicles or any less number thereof, and for
recreational vehicle spaces in excess of ten, not less than one additional
lavatory and one additional shower with individual dressing accommodations for
every ten additional recreational vehicle spaces or fractional number thereof.
               g.   Each toilet for females and each shower or bathtub with
individual dressing accommodations for females shall be in a private
compartment or stall.
               h.   The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and
females shall either be separate buildings or shall be separated, if in the
same building, by a soundproof wall.
               i.   Penalty: any person who violates any provision of this
chapter or fails to comply with any requirement hereof shall upon conviction be
subject to penalty under §
154.999.
            5.   Health and safety.
               a.   Wrecked, damaged or dilapidated mobile homes and
recreational vehicles shall not be kept or stored in a park. The health officer
shall determine if a mobile home or travel trailer is unfit for human occupancy
on either a temporary or permanent basis. Whenever a determination is made, the
mobile home or recreational vehicle shall be vacated and removed from the
premises.
               b.   All mobile/manufactured homes in mobile/manufactured home
parks shall be tied down in accordance with the requirements of the
International Building Code.
            6.   Mixed parks.
               a.   Mixed parks shall have certain areas specifically reserved
for mobile/manufactured homes and other areas specifically reserved for
recreational vehicles. This distinction is to be clearly indicated on the site
plan. The mobile/manufactured home portion of the park shall comply with all
sections of this code concerning mobile/manufactured homes. The recreational
vehicle portion of the park shall comply with all sections of this code
concerning recreational vehicles.
               b.   Although each section of the park may share a common point
of access to a public street, mobile/manufactured home traffic and recreational
vehicle traffic is to be segregated.
            7.   Mobile/manufactured home subdivisions.
               a.   Applicability. Mobile/manufactured home subdivisions shall
comply with the provisions of §§
154.075 through
154.080,
154.095 through
154.100,
154.115 through
154.127,
154.140 through
154.146,
154.160 through
154.167,
154.180 through
154.183 and
154.195 through
154.205, except as otherwise provided for in this subchapter.
               b.   Lot requirements. Minimum effective lot widths in a mobile/
manufactured home subdivision shall be 40 feet measured at the front building
line and minimum lot areas shall be 4,000 square feet, provided that at least a
five-foot side yard shall be provided on each lot beyond any mobile/
manufactured home and addition thereto. The effective lot width of a mobile/
manufactured home shall be determined, for interior lots, by measuring at right
angles across the lot from one diagonal side line to the other and for corner
lots, the measurement shall be made at right angles from on diagonal having the
greatest divergence from perpendicular to the street, through the midpoint of
the rear line of the required front yard, to the opposite lot line or an
extension thereof.
               c.   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots in a mobile/manufactured
home subdivision need not be at right angles to straight street lines or radial
to curved street lines.
               d.   Public streets. Regardless of the effective lot width,
mobile/manufactured home subdivision lots must abut a public street for at
least 25 feet.
               e.   Greenbelt. All mobile/manufactured home subdivisions shall
have a green belt planting strip not less than 20 feet in width, along all
subdivision boundaries.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.059 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Light Commercial District (LC). The LC District is intended to provide
for a full range of community-oriented retail and service commercial uses.
   (B)   Heavy Commercial District (HC). This district is intended primarily
for uses that provide commercial goods and services to residents of the
community in areas that are dependent on automobile access and exposed to heavy
automobile traffic. These commercial uses are subject to frequent view by the
public and visitors of the town and they should provide an attractive
appearance with landscaping, sufficient parking and controlled traffic
movement.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.060 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Restricted Industrial District (I-1).
      (1)   The I-1 Restricted Industrial District is intended primarily for
manufacturing and assembly plants and warehousing that are conducted so that
the noise, odor, dust, and glare of each operation is completely confined
within an enclosed building.
      (2)   These industries may require direct access to rail, air or street
transportation facilities; however, the size and volume of the raw materials
and finished products involved should not produce the volume of freight
generated by the uses of the General Industrial District. Buildings in this
district should be architecturally attractive and surrounded by landscaped
yards.
   (B)   General Industrial District (I-2).
      (1)   The I-2 General Industrial District is intended to provide for
heavy industrial development of a potentially noxious nature, including heavy
manufacturing, storage, major freight terminals, waste and salvage, resource
extraction, processing and other related uses.
      (2)   The intent is to preserve this land especially for industry in
locations with access to major streets as designated on the comprehensive plan
map, as well as locations generally accessible to railroad transportation.
Because of the objectionable influences that may be created in this district, a
buffer or additional setback strip is necessary around this district to protect
other zoning districts, except the I-1 Light Industrial District.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.061 MIXED-USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Transitional Mixed-Use District (MU-1). The intent of MU-1 District is
to provide for and encourage development and redevelopment with mix of uses
that are compatible with and can coexist with and support residential uses. The
MU-1 shall only be allowed between existing residential and commercial or the
Downtown Mixed-Use Districts.
   (B)   Downtown Mixed-use District (DM). The intent of DM District is to
provide for and encourage development and redevelopment that preserves and
enhances the unique character and vitality of the town’s central business
district. This District defines the downtown area with the intent to
concentrate and target infill and redevelopment into the core of the community.
Design standards respect the agricultural history of the community while
focusing on creating a human-scaled, pedestrian-oriented walkable and bikeable
downtown. Continuous retail frontages, largely uninterrupted by driveways and
parking, are encouraged.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.062 DIMENSIONAL AND DENSITY STANDARDS.
   No lot or yard shall be established in any district that does not meet the
minimum requirements set forth in the following table. No building or structure
shall be erected or enlarged to exceed these regulations, except as elsewhere
provided in these regulations.
Dimensional and Density Standards
         Lot Dimensions Minimum Yard
Zoning   (ft.)          Setbacks (ft.) Minimum Lot Maximum Lot  Maximum Height
Category                               Area        Coverage (%) (ft.)
Dimensional and Density Standards
         Lot
         Dimensions Minimum Yard Setbacks (ft.)                Maximum
Zoning   (ft.)                                        Minimum  Lot      Maximum
Category                          Interior Side       Lot Area Coverage Height
         Width      Front  Rear                                (%)      (ft.)
                                  1 Story     2 story

   Agricultural District
A-1      150 ft.    50 ft. 50 ft. 25 ft.              5 acres  30%      35 ft.
   Residential Districts
RE       160 ft.    35 ft. 40 ft. 10 ft.      15 ft.  1 acre   30%      35 ft.
R-1      60 ft.     25 ft. 20 ft. 5 ft.       10 ft.  7,200    25%      35 ft.
                                                      sq. ft.
R-2      60 ft.     25 ft. 20 ft. 5 ft.       10 ft.  7,200    25%      35 ft.
                                                      sq. ft.
R-3      60 ft.     25 ft. 20 ft. 5 ft.       10 ft.  7,200    25%      35 ft.
                                                      sq. ft.
RM       Refer to mobile home park district regulations §
         154.058(E)(2)
   Commercial Districts
                                  10 ft. (on
                                  side
LC       None       25 ft. 25 ft. adjoining           None     35%      35 ft.
                                  residential
                                  districts)
HC       None       25 ft. 25 ft. None                None     35%      None
   Industrial Districts
I-1      None       None   25 ft. 20 ft.              None     None     None
I-2      None       None   25 ft. 20 ft.              None     None     None
   Mixed-Use Districts
MU-1     None       None   None   None                None     None     None
DM       None       None   None   None                None     None     None
 
   (A)   General District (A-1).
      (1)   When a lot has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be provided on both sides.
      (2)   Projections such as chimneys, elevators, poles, spires,
architectural elements and public utilities, not used for human occupancy may
extend above the height limit.
      (3)   Churches, schools, hospitals, sanatoriums and other public
buildings may exceed the height limitation of the zoning district, if the
minimum depth of the rear yards and the minimum width of the side yards
required in the district are increased one foot for each two feet by which the
proposed building height exceeds the prescribed height limit.
      (4)   Accessory building.
         (a)   Accessory buildings (not to include accessory dwelling units)
shall be located not less than ten feet from any side or rear setback and shall
not be allowed within any front yard setback in front of any main structure or
dwelling.
         (b)   The setback distance designated in the table in this section
shall be measured from the property line.
      (5)   Minimum lot area shall not be less than 14,000 square feet for
church uses.
   (B)   Specific to General Agricultural District (A-1).
      (1)   Accessory structures.
         (a)   All parts of accessory structures must be located not less than
60 feet from the front from the front property line.
         (b)   Accessory structures located on a corner lot shall have a side
yard setback from the intersecting street (street that the dwelling does not
face) of not less than 35 feet.
         (c)   Accessory structures shall not cover less than 20% of the rear
yard.
         (4)   Accessory structures related to residential use on corner lots
shall have a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than 15
feet.
      (2)   Side yards; churches, agricultural use structures and main
structures (other than residential). There shall be a side yard setback from
all side lots of not less than 35 feet.
      (3)   Intensity of use. Nonconforming, pre-existing lot within the
General Agricultural District (A-1), that are enclosed on all sides by lands
under different ownership, may be used for a single-family dwelling unit, but
may not be used for maintaining or breeding agricultural animals.
   (C)   Specific to Residential Districts (R-E, R-1, R-2, R-3).
      (1)   If 25% or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets are improved with buildings, all of which have observed an
average setback line of greater than 35 feet, and no building varies more than
five feet from this average setback line, than no building shall be erected
closer to the street line than the minimum setback so established by the
existing buildings; but this regulation shall not require a front yard of
greater depth that 55 feet.
      (2)   Multiple-family uses shall have a lot area of not less than 7,200
square feet for the first dwelling unit and shall include an additional lot
area of not less than 2,800 square feet for the second dwelling unit and 2,000
square feet of lot area for each additional dwelling unit after the second.
Common areas shall be allocated equally per dwelling unit.
      (3)   Accessory dwelling units, such as garage apartments shall require
an additional 2,000 square feet of lot area per unit.
      (4)   Rear yards shall be no less than 20% of the depth of the lot. An
unattached, accessory use structure may be located in the rear lot of a main
structure.
      (5)   Churches permitted by special use permit with residential and
mixed-use districts shall not be permitted with a lot area of less than one
acre and for each increment in seating capacity of 20 persons which exceed a
seating capacity of 100 persons in the main sanctuary/auditorium, an additional
300 feet of lot area shall be provided.
      (6)   Home occupations shall be operated by the inhabitants of the
residence and shall not exceed two operators. The occupational use shall not
exceed 30% of the dwelling or 10% of the lot. The use shall be conducted in a
manner that clearly maintains the residential character of the dwelling and
neighborhood.
         (a)   No signs shall be permitted except for one non-illuminated
business name plate not exceeding two square feet in area, attached to the main
structure.
         (b)   Adequate off-street parking to accommodate cliental will be
provided in a manner that clearly maintains the residential character of the
dwelling and neighborhood.
         (c)   Off-street parking shall be constructed of dust free material,
such as concrete or asphalt.
         (d)   Equipment used by the home occupation shall be either screened
by solid fence or stored within a structure, out of view of neighborhood
residents.
   (D)   Specific to Mobile Home Park District (RM). If 20 mobile home
subdivisions shall conform to the area and setback regulations contained in
section of this chapter. For all other uses other than mobile home subdivisions
located within the RM District shall use the same area and setback regulations
as the R-3 Residential District.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 154.075 EXPLANATION OF TABLE ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The use of land or buildings shall be in accordance with
those listed in the table at the end of this section, Use Chart. No land or
building shall hereafter be used, and no building or structure shall be
erected, altered or converted other than for those uses specified in the zoning
district in which it is located.
   (B)   Explanation of table abbreviations.
      (1)   Generally. The table in §
154.076 lists the principal uses allowed within all base zoning districts. Each
of the listed uses is defined in §
154.020.
      (2)   Explanation of table abbreviations.
         (a)   Permitted uses. A filled in cell indicates that the use is
allowed by right, without special conditions other than those imposed upon
other uses by right in the district. Permitted uses are subject to all other
applicable regulations of this chapter, including the special use permit
standards in this chapter and the standards in §§
154.055 through
154.062.
         (b)   Special review uses.
            1.   “S” in a cell indicates that, in the respective zoning
district, the use is allowed only if reviewed and approved in accordance with
the procedures of §
154.040. Specific review uses are subject to all other applicable regulations
of this chapter, including the special use permit standards in this chapter and
the requirements of §§
154.055 through
154.062.
            2.   The “S” designation in the table in §
154.076 in a given district does not constitute an authorization or an
assurance that such use will be permitted. Rather, each special use permit
application shall be evaluated as to its probable effect on adjacent properties
and surrounding areas and may be approved or denied as the findings indicate
appropriate.
      (3)   Prohibited uses. A blank cell indicates that the use is prohibited
in the respective zoning district.
 
  Designates use permitted in zoning district
  Designates use prohibited in zoning district
S Indicates use may be approved as special use
 
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.076 TABLE OF USES.
Permitted Uses A-1 RE R-1 R-2 R-3 RM LC HC DM MU-1 I-1 I-2
Permitted Uses                      A-1 RE R-1 R-2 R-3 RM LC HC DM MU-1 I-1 I-2
Accessory building (over 240 sq.        S  S   S   S   S  S  S  S  S
ft.)
Accessory dwelling unit             S   S  S   S   S   S
Adult oriented business                                                 S   S
Adult respite care center                                       S  S
Agriculture
Agricultural grow facilities                                            S   S
Agricultural processing facilities                                      S   S
Airport or landing field            S
Alcoholic beverage establishments
Amusement, commercial indoor
Amusement, commercial outdoor
Antique shop
Appliance store
Art gallery
Auto storage or auto auction
Automotive parking lot
Automotive
Bed and breakfast inn               S   S  S   S   S   S
Bulk storage or wholesale of
gasoline, propane, butane or other                                          S
petroleum products
Brewery (craft brew)
Brewery (large scale)
Building and landscaping material
sales yard
Caretaker or employee housing
Catering establishment
Cemetery                            S
Cement, lime or gypsum                                                      S
manufacturing
Charitable or philanthropic
institutions
Church                                  S  S   S   S   S           S
Church mission, tent revival or
arbors
College or university
Commercial feed pens for livestock                                          S
Community center
Compost facility                                                            S
Convenience store, travel center
Country club, private
Crematory                                                                
Day camp for children                                              S
Day-care center                                                    S
Dispensary/medical marijuana                                       S
dispensary
Disposal facility (including, but
not limited to, trash, garbage,     S                                       S
sewage treatment, sewage lagoons
and composting
Dwelling, multi-family                                             S
Dwelling, single-family residential                                S
Dwelling, two-family                                               S
Equipment storage/rental yard
Equestrian facilities, private
Equestrian facilities, public       S
Event center, small scale (100<)    S
Event center, large scale (100>)    S
Family day-care homes
Farm and machinery sales and
services
Financial institutions
Freighting yard/terminal
Food products processing and                                                S
packing
Funeral home and mortuary
Gasoline service stations
Golf course, driving range          S   S
Greenhouse and plant nursery
Grocery store or supermarket
Group house                                        S               S
Halfway house                                      S               S
Hazardous waste collection,
processing or disposal
Home occupations                        S  S   S   S   S
Hospital
Hotel or motel
Inmate pre-release center                                               S   S
Inmate work center                                                      S   S
Inpatient treatment                                          S          S   S
Itinerant vendor                                          S  S  S  S    S   S
Jail and correctional facility                                          S   S
Kennel                              S
Laboratory, scientific or research
Library
Lodge hall, veterans or service     S                           S  S    S   S
organizations
Manufacturing, heavy
Manufacturing, light
Massage clinic
Media broadcast (including          S                                       S
transmission towers)
Medical or dental facility
Medical marijuana grow facility
Medical marijuana processing
facility
Medical marijuana wholesale and/or
storage facility
Mobile/manufactured home
Modular structure as a temporary    S                  S  S  S  S  S    S   S
use
Modular home                                       S
Mobile and manufactured home sales
Mobile and manufactured home park
Monument sales
Museum
Natural gas production and                                                  S
distribution
Night club, bar or dance hall                                S  S  S    S   S
Nursing, care facility,
convalescent or rest home
Open display and sales, commercial
Oil and gas drilling                S                                   S   S
Pest control services
Petroleum products, oil field
equipment, associated storage yard
and associated wholesale
Petroleum production and refining                                           S
Pharmacy
Professional offices
Public park and playground
Public safety facilities                   S
Public or nonprofit recreational
facilities
Public utility station                  S  S
Public waste treatment              S
Publisher
Recreational vehicle park
Recycling collection facility                                               S
Restaurant or eating establishment
(not drive-through type)
Restaurant or eating establishment
(drive-through)
Retail, general
Retail, specialty
Sale barn                                                                   S
Salvage yards                                                               S
School, business, commercial trade
School, private, elementary or
secondary
Self-service laundry or dry-
cleaning establishment
Service organization hall           S
Shooting range, indoor                                       S     S
Swap meet, flea market and other
similar uses
Swim or tennis club                 S   S                    S     S
Swimming pool, commercial
Tattoo and/or body piercing shop
Telecommunication facilities        S                     S  S     S
Temporary construction building            S   S   S   S  S  S  S  S
Temporary employment services, day
labor business
Theater, drive-in                                         -        S
Transit center                                            S  S  S  S    S   S
Transitional living facility                       S               S
Treatment facility                                           S  S  S
Unlighted private tennis courts     S   S
Vehicle and recreational vehicle                             S
sales
Vehicle repair                                               S     S
Vehicle storage
Veterinary hospital                 S
Warehouse
Warehouse, mini                                              S     S
Wastewater treatment plant
Wholesale or warehouse enterprise
Zoo                                 S                              S    S   S
 
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.077 ACCESSORY USES.
   Sections 154.078 through 154.080 authorizes the establishment of accessory
uses that are incidental and customarily subordinate to principal uses. An
accessory use is “incidental and customarily subordinate” to a principal use if
it complies with the standards set forth §§
154.078 through
154.080.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.078 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   All accessory uses and structures shall comply with the general standards in
this section.
   (A)   Compliance with this chapter. All accessory uses and structures shall
be subject to the dimensional requirements of §
154.062, unless otherwise specified in this chapter. Accessory uses shall
comply with all standards of this chapter applicable to the principal use with
which they are associated.
   (B)   Dimensional standards for accessory buildings and structures.
      (1)   Same lot. The accessory use or structure shall be conducted and/or
located on the same lot(s) as the principal use.
      (2)   Size. In the R-1, R-2, R-3 and RM Districts, the maximum size of
any accessory building shall be 1,000 square feet unless otherwise approved by
specific use permit. No accessory building shall be constructed until the
construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory
building shall be used unless the main building is also being used. In
commercial and industrial districts, an accessory use shall not occupy more
than 50% of the building square footage associated with the principal use.
      (3)   Same ownership required. The principal use and the accessory use
shall be under the same ownership.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.079 APPROVAL OF ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All principal uses allowed in a zoning district shall be deemed to
include those accessory uses, structures and activities typically associated
with the use, unless specifically prohibited in this chapter.
   (B)   All accessory uses shall be subject to the standards in §§
154.078 through
154.080, as well as any special use permit standards applicable to the
associated principal use as set forth in §
154.040.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.080 ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Home occupations. A home occupation may be permitted as an accessory
use to a principal dwelling unit in any of the residential districts, provided
that:
      (1)   Size/area. The business or service is located within the dwelling
or an associated accessory building and does not exceed 20% of the combined
floor area of the structures or 500 square feet, whichever is less;
      (2)   Employees and residency. The principal person or persons providing
the business or service shall reside in the dwelling on the premises. The home
occupation shall employ no more than one person who does not reside on the
premises;
      (3)   Neighborhood compatibility.
         (a)   All vehicles used in connection with the home occupation shall
be of a size, and located on the premises in such a manner, so as to not
disrupt the quiet nature and visual quality of the neighborhood, and there
shall be no more than two vehicles per home occupation.
         (b)   There shall be sufficient off-street parking for patrons of the
home occupation, with the number of off-street parking spaces required for the
home occupation to be provided and maintained in addition to the space or
spaces required for the dwelling itself pursuant to §§
154.160 through
154.167.
         (c)   No additional parking areas other than driveways shall be
located in the required front setback.
         (d)   There shall be no advertising devices on the property, or other
signs of the home occupation, which are visible from outside the dwelling or
accessory building.
         (e)   The property shall contain no outdoor display or storage of
goods or services that are associated with the home occupation.
         (f)   Wholesale or retail sales of goods shall not occur on the
premises.
         (g)   The home occupation shall not create traffic or parking
congestion, noise, vibration, odor, glare, fumes, or electrical or
communications interference that can be detected by the normal senses off the
premises, including visual or audible interference with radio or television
reception.
      (4)   Prohibited home occupations. The following uses, because of their
impacts on the surrounding residential area, shall not be permitted as home
occupations: auto repair or motorized implement repair; dance, music or other
types of instruction (if more than four students are being instructed at one
time); dental offices; medical offices; the painting of vehicles, trailers or
boats; private schools with organized classes; motor vehicle towing operation;
barber shops having more than one chair, beauty shops having more than one
chair; welding shops; nursing homes; bed and breakfast and other such transient
lodging.
   (B)   Swimming pools and associated equipment. Swimming pools may be placed
in rear yards and rear building line areas upon approval and issuance of a
building permit in any A-1 or R Districts. No swimming pool, nor any part of
it, inclusive of decks and equipment, shall be placed in any utility easement,
or drainage easement. No swimming pool, nor any part of it, shall be closer
than five feet of any property line. All aboveground swimming pools shall be at
least 25 feet from any arterial street.
   (C)   Storage buildings. Storage buildings containing no more than 120
square feet may be placed in rear yards in any A-1 or R Districts but shall be
located at least five feet from the rear and side property lines. No part of
the building, however, shall be located within a utility easement.
   (D)   Outdoor display and sales. Outdoor display and/or sale may be allowed
as an accessory use for all commercial uses. It is the intent of this chapter
to allow the display of merchandise for sale, but not where the display of such
items impedes the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or creates an unsafe
condition. The display of goods shall meet all of the following requirements.
      (1)   Procedural requirement. Outdoor display and/or sale shall require
approval of the director. All new site plans must show the location of such
areas in accordance with this section. Existing nonresidential uses must submit
a plan showing the location of the outdoor display or sales areas and how the
requirements of this section are to be met. Approval may be subject to
appropriate conditions by the director.
      (2)   Where permitted.
         (a)   All outdoor display of goods shall be located immediately
adjacent to the storefront and not in drive aisles, loading zones, fire lanes
or parking lots.
         (b)   The area used for outdoor display or sales shall not occur on
the sides and rear of buildings and shall be limited to no more than one-half
of the length of the storefront, unless increased by the director after taking
into account aesthetic and safety concerns or other relevant factors. In the
case of a shopping center, the “storefront” shall include the entire frontage
of the shopping center, meaning that the total amount of display for all the
in-line tenants combined shall not exceed 50% of the aggregate storefront of
the overall shopping center.
         (c)   The area of outdoor display or sales shall not encompass the
width of the entrance doors to the facility as projected straight out from the
facility. For example, if the width of the entrance doors is ten feet, then
there shall be at least a ten-foot clearance from the doors as projected
straight out and away from the facility.
         (d)   No goods shall be attached to a building’s wall surface.
         (e)   The height of the outdoor display shall not exceed six feet,
unless an exception to this provision has been granted by the director.
         (f)   The outdoor display area shall take place on an improved surface
such as the sidewalk or pavement and be clearly marked by a contrasting paint
color.
         (g)   No outdoor displays shall be allowed in required landscape
areas.
      (3)   No pedestrian obstruction. At least five feet along the parking lot
side of the display shall be maintained free of obstruction to allow for
pedestrian and handicap movement, such that handicapped pedestrians and others
do not have to enter the parking lot or drive aisle to walk around the display.
   (E)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage may be allowed as an accessory use
through the site plan review process and subject to compliance with the
following requirements.
      (1)   Each outdoor storage area shall be incorporated into the overall
design of the primary structure on the site and shall be located at the rear of
the primary structure.
      (2)   Goods stored in an approved outdoor storage area shall be limited
to those sold on the premises as part of an associated primary use.
      (3)   (a)   Each outdoor storage area shall be screened from view from
all property lines and adjacent rights-of-way by an opaque fence or wall
between six feet and eight feet in height that incorporates at least one of the
predominant materials and one of the predominant colors used in the primary
structure.
         (b)   The fence may exceed eight feet in height where the difference
in grade between the right-of-way and the outdoor storage area makes a taller
fence necessary to effectively screen the area. Materials may not be stored
higher than the height of the primary structure.
         (c)   The perimeter of the fence or wall must be landscaped with a
seven-foot wide strip containing a minimum of one tree for every 150 square
feet of lot area.
      (4)   A landscaped earthen berm may be used instead of or in combination
with a required fence or wall.
      (5)   If the outdoor storage area is covered, then the covering shall
include at least one of the predominant exposed roofing colors on the primary
structure.
      (6)   No materials may be stored in areas intended for vehicular or
pedestrian circulation.
      (7)   If installed, exterior lighting shall meet the functional needs of
the facility without adversely affecting adjacent properties or the
neighborhood.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL
Article 1: Exterior Lighting
§ 154.095 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   The purpose of this article is to establish standards for the use of outdoor
lighting facilities that serve private developments; provide adequate lighting
for customer, pedestrian and driver use; provide for the efficient use of
energy; and mitigate nuisance, and glare to adjacent properties.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.096 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. All exterior lighting for any type of residential or
nonresidential development shall comply with the standards of this chapter
unless exempted in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following types of lighting are exempt from the
requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Outdoor lighting associated with single-family residential
dwellings or duplex development projects;
      (2)   Outdoor lighting used for public streets and right-of-way lighting;
      (3)   Public utility companies when working on public utility lighting
for public utility purposes in utility easements;
      (4)   Outdoor lighting used for public or private recreational
activities, sporting events at stadiums and ball fields, concerts, plays or
other outdoor events that are public or private; and
      (5)   Outdoor lighting used for temporary decorative seasonal lighting or
other temporary events.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.097 LIGHTING PLAN REQUIREMENT.
   In order to ensure safety and compliance with the standards in §
154.098, outdoor lighting plans demonstrating compliance with the standards of
this section shall be required with the submittal of a site plan. If no outdoor
lighting is proposed, a note shall be placed upon the face of the site plan
indicating that outdoor lighting is not required.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.098 GENERAL LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   An applicant may use either the “fixture height standard” or the
“photometric standard,” as detailed in §
154.099. Regardless of the method chosen, outdoor lighting must be in
compliance with the following standards.
   (A)   Safety. Either method used shall provide sufficient and safe
illumination for vehicle movement and pedestrian safety.
   (B)   Light poles. Light poles shall not be placed in street rights-of-way
or utility easements adjacent to street rights-of-way, except by franchised
utility companies or by the town, as a part of a street lighting project. Light
poles may be placed in other utility easements with the approval of the
director; and if light poles are allowed to be placed in utility easements, a
note shall be placed on the face of the site plan stating the following:
“Property owner(s) assumes all liability and replacement responsibilities for
any damage to light poles placed in utility easements.”
   (C)   Site perimeter illumination. Illumination of the perimeter of the site
shall be reduced in intensity when adjacent to lesser intensive uses or public
rights-of-way measured in foot-candles (fc) at three feet above grade as
follows for either the fixture height or the photometric standard:
      (1)   Site adjoining another nonresidential zoning district: 3.0 fc;
      (2)   Site adjoining agricultural/residential zoning districts: 0.5 fc;
and
      (3)   Site adjoining public rights-of-way: 3.0 fc.
   (D)   Shielding. Light sources shall be concealed or shielded with
luminaries with cut-offs with an angle not exceeding 90 degrees to minimize the
potential for glare and unnecessary diffusion on adjacent property. For
purposes of this standard, “cut-off angle” is defined as the angle formed by a
line drawn from the direction of light rays at the light source and a line
perpendicular to the ground from the light source above from which no light is
emitted.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.099 METHODS OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Method 1: fixture height standards. All outdoor lighting shall be by
shielded fixtures. Light fixtures shall be parallel to the final grade and
installed so that no direct light will shine beyond the subject property. The
height of light poles and fixtures shall be approved through the site plan
process.
      (1)   Fixture height standard lighting plan. The submitted lighting plan
shall include the following:
         (a)   A scale drawing of the site with all outdoor lighting locations
shown;
         (b)   Fixture specifications, including catalog cut sheets or generic
standards;
         (c)   Pole type and height of fixture from base of the pole;
         (d)   Lamp type and size; and
         (e)   Fixture mounting and orientation.
      (2)   Allowable heights. Allowable heights of light fixtures shall be
measured from the light emitting surface to the base of the pole location as
follows:
         (a)   Maximum height of 16 feet, within 50 feet of agricultural/
residential zoned districts, or public right-of-way;
         (b)   Maximum height of 20 feet, within 51 feet to 250 feet of
agricultural/residential zoned districts, or public right-of-way;
         (c)   Maximum height of 35 feet, if located a minimum 251 feet from
agricultural/residential zoned districts, or public right-of-way;
         (d)   Maximum fixture height shall not exceed 35 feet; and
         (e)   Canopy lighting shall be by recessed fixtures with diffusers
that do not extend below the canopy surface.
   (B)   Method 2: photometric standard.
      (1)   A photometric plan is required to be submitted unless the “fixture
height standard” is utilized. If the “photometric standard” is desired to
increase pole heights, the applicant shall submit a photometric plan in
sufficient detail to evaluate its conformance with the general lighting
standards in §
154.098.
      (2)   The photometric plan shall include the following:
         (a)   A scale drawing of the site with all outdoor lighting locations
shown;
         (b)   Fixture specifications, including catalog cut sheets or generic
standards;
         (c)   Lamp type and size;
         (d)   Fixture mounting heights, mounting orientation and tilt angles
if applicable;
         (e)   A representative point-by-point illumination array for the site
showing property lines and off-site lighting impacts;
         (f)   The maximum fixture height shall not exceed 35 feet as measured
from the base of the fixture to the base of the pole; and
         (g)   Canopy lighting shall use recessed fixtures with diffusers that
do not extend below the canopy surface.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.100 LIGHTING LEVEL MEASUREMENTS.
   Light levels shall be measured with a direct-reading, portable light meter,
calibrated within the last year by an independent laboratory regularly engaged
in the calibration of such instruments. The meter’s sensor shall be located at
the top of the visual screening fence on the property line (or at a height of
three feet above the surrounding local grade if there is no fence), aimed
towards the subject property in horizontal position. Readings shall be recorded
after the value has stabilized. Measurements are made after establishment of
darkness with the light sources to be measured illuminated, and then with those
light sources extinguished. The difference between these two readings will then
be compared to the maximum allowed illumination at the property line. In this
way, contributions to light levels by the moon and other ambient light sources
are eliminated and the light intensity from the sources in question can be
determined.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
Article 2: Fencing
§ 154.115 FENCING.
   (A)   This article provides uniform standards that are intended to permit
the construction and maintenance of high-quality fences and walls, while
preventing the monotonous appearance of uninterrupted fences and walls from
dominating the town’s streetscapes.
   (B)   (1)   The general objectives of these standards are to promote health,
safety, welfare, convenience and enjoyment of the public, and in part to
achieve the following safety objectives.
      (2)   Safety: to promote the safety of persons and property by providing
fences do not:
         (a)   Create a hazard due to collapse, fire, decay or abandonment;
         (b)   Obstruct firefighting or police observation ability;
         (c)   Create traffic hazards by confusing or distracting pedestrians
or motorists;
         (d)   Become obstacles that hinder the ability of pedestrians,
bicyclists or motorists to read traffic signs; or
         (e)   Improve the long-term sustainability of residential structures.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.116 FENCE PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Encroachment on public property. No fence, guy wires, braces or any
post of such fence constructed pursuant to this article shall be constructed
upon or caused to extend or otherwise encroach over public property that the
town or the general public has dominion and control, owns or has a right of
access over, under, around or through.
   (B)   Right-of-way and easements. No fence, wall or screening shall be
permitted in the street right- of-way, or utility easements. If owner places a
fence on property on which the town has an easement of any type, then the owner
assumes all responsibility for loss if it becomes necessary to remove such
fence in order to gain access to utilities in the easement.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.117 HEIGHT LIMITATION IN REAR AND SIDE YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect, maintain, suffer or permit a fence at a
height exceeding feet in any rear yard or along any rear yard lot line, or in
any side yard or along any side yard line, except by appeal to the Zoning Board
of Adjustment and by favorable vote from same.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.118 HEIGHT LIMITATION IN FRONT YARDS.
   Front yard fences shall be constructed within the required front yard
according to the following.
   (A)   The fence is 42 inches or less in height, and the fence is 50%
visibility open (no solid fences).
   (B)   In the case of a corner lot, the fence is 42 inches or less in height,
and the fence is 50% visibility open (no solid fences).
   (C)   Metal fabric material (chain-link) fence materials are not allowed
within the required front yard except for the repair or replacement of an
existing chain-link fence to its original height.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.119 REVERSE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   (A)   On all reverse frontage lots located on property zoned for residential
use, or used for residential use, it shall be unlawful to construct, maintain,
suffer or permit a fence within the required side yard area that is adjacent to
a front yard area at a distance closer than ten feet of the side property line.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmation of defense to division (A) of this section
that the fence is three and one-half feet or less in height and the fence
allows at least 50% through vision.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.120 BARBED WIRE OR ELECTRICALLY CHARGED FENCES.
   Only fences as part of an agricultural or farming or ranching related
activities erected, maintained or permitted shall be electrically charged in
any manner or form. The exclusion includes, but is not limited to, fences
electrically charged by battery or those tied in with the regular electrical
outlet.
   (A)   No fence erected, maintained or permitted shall be made with barbed
wire unless as part of an agricultural or farming or ranching related
activities.
   (B)   No fence erected, maintained or permitted shall be made with
concertina wire, razor wire or anything capable of causing significant harm to
the general public.
   (C)   Any barbed wire portion of a fence for a commercial application must
be on that portion of the fence over six feet in height. The barbed arms shall
not extend over public rights-of-way or easements or over private property of
another person. When adjoining property is zoned or used for residential
purposes or public rights-of-way, barbed arms shall extend inward.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.121 FENCE CONSTRUCTION, MATERIALS AND SETBACK.
   (A)   All fences, unless prohibited elsewhere in this article, shall be
constructed or maintained with wire or metal fabric material (chain-link),
wood, brick, stone, concrete, vinyl, ornamental iron or other approved
materials as approved by the code official. Fence posts shall be constructed or
made of metal, brick, stone, concrete, fiberglass or other material approved by
the code official. All fence posts must be placed at a depth of at least 24
inches into the ground filled and anchored with concrete footers or encasement.
   (B)   Fencing in commercial and industrial districts behind the front
building line shall be constructed of the primary masonry materials of the
building, wrought iron, chain-link, living plant material or other materials as
approved by the code official.
   (C)   All fences shall be set back a minimum for five feet from the front of
a structure. In the event that district-specific fence regulations duly adopted
by the Town Board of Trustees conflict with this section, those district
specific regulations will control.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.122 GATES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, or maintain
any fence without providing a gate or other means of entrance and exit into and
out of the area which the fence encloses, and it shall further be unlawful for
any person to erect, construct or maintain any fence along or near a rear
property line which adjoins an alley or easement without providing a reasonable
means of access to such an alley or easement.
   (B)   Gates must swing inward toward private property and are not allowed to
swing outward across property lines into public-right-of-way.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.123 INSPECTION.
   Upon completion of the installation of a fence, the building inspector shall
be called upon for inspection. An acceptance tag will then be issued or a
rejection tag indicating the defects in the same not in compliance with
approved plans or town ordinances.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.124 MAINTENANCE.
   All fences shall be maintained by the owners of the property so as to comply
with the requirements of this article and shall also be maintained in good
condition; such condition shall not deviate from the maintenance standards as
follows.
   (A)   The fence shall not be out of vertical alignment more than 20 degrees.
   (B)   Any and all broken, damaged, removed or missing parts of said fence
shall be replaced within ten days of receiving notification by regular mail, or
notice delivered in person by the code official or his or her authorized
representative. The code official may, upon written notice from the owner that
unusual circumstances prevent the timely repair of a fence, extend the
replacement time as necessary. Replacement materials to be the same material,
size, shape and quality of the original fence to which the repair is being made
except when a post is damaged, removed or missing. Replacement materials of
fence posts shall conform to the standards established in §
154.121. Such post shall be replaced with metal or steel (095 or schedule 40)
or other material approved by the code official.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.125 FENCE PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct,
erect, install, alter or locate any fence within the town prior to completion
of an application for a fence permit. Such application is available at town
hall.
   (B)   Any person making application for a fence permit shall submit a signed
application containing the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s name and address, and if the applicant represents a
corporation, the name and address of the registered agent of the corporation,
and if the applicant represents an association, the name and address of the
higher manager or agent of the association;
      (2)   Name of the property owner;
      (3)   Address where the fence is proposed to be erected;
      (4)   Type of fence construction and buildings to be utilized;
      (5)   Height of fence;
      (6)   Site plan showing proposed location of the fence and listing
relevant dimensions between the fence and other structures on the lot and the
location of property lines, easements and public rights-of-way; and
      (7)   Paid permit fee as set forth by the Board of Trustees of the town
by duly adopted resolution, and the fees may be amended by resolution of the
Town Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.126 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the building inspector or a town official to
issue a permit applied for under this section, if he or she finds the
application in order and in compliance with all provisions of this chapter and
other ordinances, and if the fee prescribed by this section has been paid.
   (B)   The building inspector may revoke any permit issued that fails to
comply with any provision of this chapter or other applicable town ordinance.
Upon such revocation, all work authorized by the permit shall cease.
   (C)   No person shall continue with the construction of a fence after being
served with a stop work order by the building inspector of the town or his or
her designee except such work as that person to remove a violation or unsafe
condition.
   (D)   If the work authorized by a permit issued under this section is not
completed within six months after the date of issuance, the permit shall expire
and become null and void.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.127 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon denial of a fence permit application by the building inspector,
an applicant may appeal in writing to the Board of Adjustment for consideration
of variances. Whenever the applicant can show that a strict application of the
terms of this article will impose upon him or her unusual or practical
difficulties, the Board of Adjustment may consider such variances when the
Board is satisfied that granting of such variation will not merely serve as a
convenience but will alleviate some demonstrable and unusual hardship or
difficulty to warrant a variance and, at the same time, the surrounding
property will be properly protected.
   (B)   Areas that warrant a hearing before the Board of Adjustment would be
fence materials, fence setbacks and overall height of the fence. These are the
only areas that may be considered for considering a variance by the Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
Article 3: Landscaping
§ 154.140 LANDSCAPING.
   This article is intended to ensure that new landscaping and the retention of
existing vegetation is an integral part of all development, and that it
contributes added high quality to development, retains and increases property
values, conserves water and improves the environmental and aesthetic character
of the community. It is also the intent of this section to provide flexible
requirements that encourage and allow for creativity in landscape design.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.141 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   New development.
      (1)   All new nonresidential development shall be landscaped to provide
visual buffering, enhance the beautification of the town, safeguard and enhance
property values, protect public and private investment, and to protect the
public health, safely and general welfare of the citizens of the town. The
landscaped area will help reduce soil erosion, and the volume and rate of
discharge of stormwater runoff.
      (2)   All new residential development/redevelopment of six or more
dwelling units and/or three or more acres shall comply with the provisions of
this section for landscaping requirements.
   (B)   Renovation/enlargement of existing development. This division (B)
shall apply to all applications for building permits for projects that involve
one or more of the following:
         (a)   An increase in the number of stories in an existing building on
the lot;
         (b)   An increase in the non-permeable lot coverage by more than 500
square feet; or
         (c)   An increase of 50% or more in the square footage of building
area or parking lot.
   (C)   Landscaping plans approved under previous ordinances. All landscape
plans approved under prior ordinances of the town shall remain in effect and
subject to fulfillment of all terms of such plans previously filed and
approved.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following development types and areas are exempted
from the requirements of this section:
      (1)   Individual single-family and two-family dwellings on separate lots,
where such residential use is the primary use on the lot;
      (2)   New single-family detached and two-family subdivisions with four or
fewer lots and four or fewer dwellings; and
      (3)   Temporary uses approved pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.142 LANDSCAPING AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   For all nonresidential, multi-family, and mixed-use districts.
   (A)   An area equal to 10% of the building footprint per street frontage
shall be landscaped. Landscaping shall be located on that portion of the lot
situated between the proposed building line and the property line or lines
adjacent to the street and shall be permanently maintained.
   (B)   Right-of-way between back of curb or edge of pavement to property line
must be landscaped. However, in no case shall there be less than a ten-foot
wide landscaped area.
   (C)   Any landscaped area in the right-of-way in excess of ten feet in width
may be credited toward the total required landscaped area requirement.
   (D)   The combined total of non-living landscape materials shall not exceed
50% of total required landscape area.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.143 PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING.
   Landscaping in all commercial and residential parking lots shall be as
follows.
   (A)   Parking lots shall be separated from street frontages and from
abutting uses by planting areas.
   (B)   A minimum ten-foot wide landscape strip shall be provided between any
parking lot designed or intended to accommodate seven cars or more and any lot
frontage of the property on which the parking lot is located, unless the
parking area is otherwise screened from the street by a building or other
means.
   (C)   A minimum ten-foot wide landscape strip shall be provided between any
vehicular loading area and any lot frontage of the property on which the
loading area is located, unless the vehicular loading area is otherwise
screened from the street by a building or other means.
   (D)   One deciduous shade tree shall be provided within the parking lot for
every seven parking spaces, or portion thereof. Each tree shall be located
within the parking lot in reasonable proximity to the spaces for which the tree
was required. Trees provided to meet the minimum requirements of any landscape
strip or buffer may not be counted toward this requirement.
   (E)   Tree planting areas shall be no less than eight feet in width and
shall provide at least 100 square feet of planting area per tree. No tree shall
be less than two and one-half feet from the edge of pavement or back of curb;
if curbing is not provided around the tree planting area, curb stops shall be
placed such that vehicles will not overhang the tree planting area.
   (F)   (1)   A landscaping island shall be located at the end of every
parking bay between the last parking space and an adjacent travel aisle or
driveway.
      (2)   The island shall be no less than eight feet wide for at least one-
half the length of the adjacent parking space. The island shall be planted in
trees, shrubs, grass or ground cover except for those areas that are mulched.
   (G)   Landscaping islands and tree planting areas shall be well drained and
contain suitable soil and natural irrigation characteristics for the planting
materials they contain.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.144 LANDSCAPING PLAN.
   (A)   Landscaping plan approval. Landscape plans shall be reviewed and
approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to the issuance of a building
permit. For multi-family, commercial, and industrial developments, a
landscaping plan shall be submitted with the required site plan. For single-
family, two-family and mobile home developments, the location of proposed
landscape development shall be shown on the preliminary plat followed by a
landscape plan submitted with the final plat. Upon receipt of a landscape plan,
the Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Approve the landscape plan as complying with the requirements of
this chapter;
      (2)   Approve the landscape plan with conditions that bring it into
compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Reject the landscape plan as failing to comply with the
requirements of this chapter; or
      (4)   Waive the landscape requirement if it is determined that a suitable
location for landscape development is not available.
   (B)   Landscaping plan content. All landscaping plans shall include the
following information:
      (1)   North arrow and scale;
      (2)   The location of existing property lines and dimensions of the
tract, accurately drawn to scale;
      (3)   Exact locations and outline of all rights-of-way;
      (4)   The location and size of all existing and proposed buildings, and
parking areas, including the exact number of parking spaces provided;
      (5)   The location and size of any permanent fixture or structure
including, but not limited to, sidewalks, walls, fences, trash enclosures,
project storage, lighting fixtures, signs and benches, which are relevant to
the landscape plan;
      (6)   The location, size and type of all above-ground and underground
public utilities with notation, where appropriate, as to any safety hazards to
avoid during installation. Alternatively, a letter of no objection provided by
the utility company may be provided;
      (7)   The location, size, type, species, spacing (on center), and
quantity of all proposed plant materials and existing plant materials credited
for points shall be graphically represented and referenced on the plan by a
common name and/or scientific name, or an appropriate key of all plant species;
      (8)   Indicate the method of irrigation on plans and define the area of
coverage. If an automatic irrigation system is not proposed, the location of
all required hose connections and other watering sources shall be noted; and
      (9)   All screening required by this code.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.145 MAINTENANCE OF LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to maintain in
good condition all the improvements required by this section. Landscaping which
dies shall be replaced by the owner no later than 60 days after notification
from the building official, with another living plant that is comparable to the
existing plant or plant material specified in the approved landscape plan. The
building official may extend this time period due to weather or other events
outside of the reasonable control of the property owner.
   (B)   Failure to provide the improvements required by this code or failure
to maintain required improvements in the manner prescribed by this code shall
constitute an offense and violation of this code.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.146 COMPLETION REQUIREMENTS.
   A certificate of occupancy for any use wherein landscaping is required by
this article, shall not be used until the landscaping has been installed in
accordance with the landscaping plan; except that if a structure and all site
improvements are complete except for the landscaping, and the season of the
year or some other constraint will not permit the planting or growing of
plants, temporary occupancy may be permitted by the building inspector until a
date certain. If the landscaping has not been completed by said date, the
property owner shall be in violation of the occupancy permit provisions of this
chapter and shall be subject to the penalties as provided in §
154.999.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
Article 4: Parking and Loading
§ 154.160 PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   (1)   This article is intended to provide for the location and design
of off-street parking areas to accommodate motor vehicles, while balancing the
needs of pedestrians, bicyclists and transit users.
      (2)   Parking areas are secondary and supportive to the primary land uses
on the site, and parking lot design should emphasize the primary facade and
orient pedestrians toward the principal entranceways and walkways.
   (B)   The provisions of this section are also intended to help protect the
public health, safety and general welfare by:
      (1)   Helping avoid and mitigate traffic congestion;
      (2)   Encouraging multi-modal transportation options and enhanced
pedestrian safety;
      (3)   Providing methods to reduce the amount of impervious surface in
parking areas and adequate drainage structures to order to reduce the
environmental impacts of stormwater runoff;
      (4)   Ensure that paving or alternate means of surfacing of parking areas
will address dust abatement and improve air quality; and
      (5)   Providing flexible methods of responding to the transportation and
access demands of various land uses in different areas of the town.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.161 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Generally. The off-street parking and loading standards of this
section shall apply to all parking lots and parking structures accessory to any
new building constructed and to any new use within town limits. The
requirements of this section shall apply to all temporary parking lots and
parking lots that are the principal use on a site.
   (B)   Expansions and enlargements.
      (1)   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the parking standards of this
section apply whenever an existing building or use is enlarged or expanded to
include additional dwelling units, floor area or other units of measurement
used for establishing off-street parking requirements.
      (2)   In the case of enlargements or expansions triggering requirements
for additional parking, additional off-street parking spaces are required only
to serve the enlarged or expanded area, not the entire building or use. In
other words, there is no requirement to address lawfully existing parking
deficits.
      (3)   Additional off-street parking spaces are required only when
existing development is enlarged or expanded in any way that results in more
than a 10% increase in the total number of off-street parking spaces required
for the development based on the standards of this chapter.
      (4)   An enlargement or expansion may trigger the need to provide or
increase accessible (ADA-compliant) parking, as determined by the town.
   (C)   Change of use.
      (1)   Unless otherwise expressly stated, when the use of property
changes, additional off-street vehicle must be provided to serve the new use
only when the number of parking spaces required for the new use exceeds by more
than 10% the number of spaces required for the lawful use that most recently
occupied the building based on the standards of this chapter
      (2)   When the number of parking spaces required for the new use exceeds
the number of spaces required for the use that most recently occupied the
property by more than 10%, additional parking spaces are required only to make
up the difference between the amount of parking required for the previous use
and the amount of parking required for the new use, based on the standards of
this chapter.
      (3)   A change of use may trigger the need to provide or increase
accessible ADA-compliant parking, as determined by the town.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.162 COMPUTATION OF PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fractions. When measurements of the number of required spaces result
in a fractional number, any fraction shall be rounded up to the next higher
whole number.
   (B)   Multiple uses. Lots containing more than one use shall provide parking
and loading in an amount equal to the total of the requirements for all uses.
   (C)   Area measurements. Unless otherwise specified, all square footage-
based parking and loading standards shall be computed on the basis of gross
floor area of the use in question. Structured parking within a building shall
not be counted in such measurement.
   (D)   Computation of off-street parking. Required off-street loading spaces
shall not be included as off-street parking spaces in computation of required
off-street parking spaces.
   (E)   Parking for unlisted uses. Parking requirements for uses not
specifically listed in §
154.163 shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator based on the
requirements for the closest comparable use, as well as on the particular
parking demand and trip generation characteristics of the proposed use.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.163 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated in this chapter, off-street parking spaces
shall be provided in accordance with the following off-street parking schedule.
Off-Street Parking Schedule
Use Number of Required Spaces
Off-Street Parking Schedule
Use                                     Number of Required Spaces
   Residential and Lodging Uses
Detached house                          2 per dwelling unit, both fully
                                        enclosed
Duplex                                  2 per unit
Multiple family                         2 per unit
Boarding/rooming house, motel, hotel    1 per guest room plus 1 per employee on
                                        maximum shift
                                        2 per 3 occupants based on maximum
Dormitories, fraternities, sororities   design plus any additional parking
and unmarried student housing           required to meet public assembly
                                        requirements.
   Businesses and Commercial Uses
Cafeteria, restaurant (not drive-in),   1 per seat based on maximum seating
bar, lounge, tavern, private club       capacity plus 1 space per 2 employees
                                        on maximum shift
Drive-in restaurant                     1 per 50 sq. ft. net floor area plus 1
                                        space per 2 employees on maximum shift.
Office not otherwise classified         1 per 300 sq. ft. net floor area
Commercial/service not otherwise        1 per 200 sq. ft. net floor area
classified
                                        Adequate off-street space for vehicles
                                        being washed, fueled or serviced plus
Service station, car wash, and similar  maximum of 5 off-street spaces per
operations                              establishment or minimum of 3 off-
                                        street spaces for each wash rack, wash
                                        space or work stall in station plan,
                                        whichever is greater
Day care centers or nurseries           1 per 2 employees
Adult day care centers                  1 per 2 employees plus 5 public spaces
                                        Applicants for a temporary employment
                                        service or day labor business shall
                                        submit an application and the required
                                        fee to the Planning Commission for a
                                        conditional use permit (CUP) to
                                        determine parking requirements. Notice
                                        of such application shall be given to
                                        the public by posting a conspicuous
                                        sign on the subject property at least
                                        seven days prior to the Planning
                                        Commission meeting the recommendation
Off-street parking requirements for     of the Planning Commission shall be
temporary employment services/day labor forwarded to the Town Board of Trustees
businesses                              for final approval. The Planning
                                        Commission and Town Board of Trustees
                                        shall make a determination of the
                                        parking demand created by the proposed
                                        use and the amount of parking spaces
                                        thus determined shall become the off-
                                        street parking requirement for the
                                        permitted use. For existing structures
                                        and shopping centers the amount of
                                        available parking and the creation of
                                        potential traffic and parking hazards
                                        shall be considered.
   Industrial and Warehouse Uses
                                        Adequate area for all employee and
                                        customer vehicles at all times, plus
Industrial, warehouse                   adequate area for loading, unloading
                                        and for all vehicles used incidental to
                                        or part of primary operation
   Schools, Institutions and Places of Assembly
                                        10 per classroom (college) 20 per
                                        classroom (technical college/trade
Schools                                 school 8 per classroom (high school) 4
                                        per classroom (elementary and middle
                                        school)
                                        1 per 4 beds exclusive of bassinets,
Hospital                                plus 1 per each visiting doctor/staff,
                                        plus 1 per 2 employees plus, adequate
                                        area for emergency vehicles.
Medical/dental clinic or office         6 per doctor plus 1 per 2 employees
                                        1 per 3 beds, plus 1 per 4 beds
Convalescent/nursing home               exclusive of bassinets, plus 1 per each
                                        visiting doctor/staff, plus 1 per 2
                                        employees
Community center, theater, auditorium,  1 per 4 seats based on maximum seating
church sanctuary                        capacity
Place of amusement or recreation,       1 per 50 sq. ft. of floor space used
convention hall, lodge, club, library   for assembly or recreation in building
or museum
   All Uses Not Listed
For all uses not covered in this section, the Planning Commission shall make a
determination of the parking demand to be created by the proposed use and the
amount of parking thus determined shall be the off-street parking requirement
for the permitted use.
   Accessible Parking for People with Disabilities
Accessible parking spaces for people with disabilities shall be provided in
accordance with applicable building codes and town engineering standards and
specifications. The spaces may be counted toward satisfaction of the required
spaces specified in this section.
 
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.164 CALCULATION OF MAXIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   For the purpose of calculating parking requirements, the following types of
parking spaces shall not count against the maximum parking requirement, but
shall count toward the minimum requirement:
   (A)   Handicapped parking;
   (B)   Vanpool and carpool parking; and
   (C)   Structured parking, underground parking and parking within, above or
beneath the building(s) it serves.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.165 STACKING SPACES FOR DRIVE-THROUGH USES.
   In addition to meeting the off-street parking requirements of this section,
drive-through facilities specified in §
154.076 Table of Uses, shall comply with the following minimum stacking space
standards:
 
Type of Use                            Minimum Stacking Spaces Measured From
Financial institution, with drive-thru 4                       Teller window
Restaurant, with drive through         8                       Pick-up window
Car wash, automatic                    6                       Bay entrance
Car wash, self-service                 3                       Bay entrance
Car wash, full service                 4                       Bay entrance
Gasoline sales gas pump island         30 feet from each end of island
 
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.166 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Development of any nonresidential or commercial/industrial use shall
require provision of off-street loading spaces in conformance with the
following minimum requirements:
 
Use                   Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.) Minimum Berths
Retail and Industrial 0—12,000                 0
                      12,000—48,000            1
                      48,000+                    2
Office                0—48,000                 0
                      48,000—100,000           1
                      100,000+                   2
 
   (B)   The off-street loading berths shall be maintained on the same lot with
the building.
   (C)   Each berth shall be no less than 12 feet in width, 50 feet in length
and 14 feet in height.
   (D)   Loading berths may occupy part of any required side or rear yard, but
no space may be located closer than ten feet to the rear property line.
   (E)   When the off-street parking space or loading berth does not abut on a
street, public or private alley or easement for access, an access drive of the
following minimum widths shall be provided:
      (1)   Two-way drive: 25 feet;
      (2)   One-way drive for 90-degree parking: 24 feet.
      (3)   One-way drive for 60-degree parking: 18 feet.
      (4)   One-way drive for 45-degree parking: 13 feet.
   (F)   The maximum width of any driveway in nonresidential districts shall be
36 feet.
   (G)   All off-street parking areas, driveways and loading berths shall be
constructed according to standards approved by the Town Board of Trustees and
on file with the Town Clerk.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, no off-street parking
spaces or loading berths shall occupy the sight triangle at a corner.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.167 PARKING AND LOADING SURFACING.
   (A)   All off-street parking areas must be surfaced with a dustless, all-
weather surface unless otherwise expressly stated in this article. Parking area
surfacing must be completed prior to initiation of the use to be served by the
parking.
   (B)   All motorized vehicles designed for travel upon public streets and
that are being parked, stored or displayed for sale must be parked, stored or
displayed on dustless, all-weather surface. This surfacing requirement does not
apply to junk or salvage yards or to storage areas for agricultural, industrial
or construction equipment. Other requests for use of alternative surfacing
require approval in accordance with the special use permit procedures of §
154.040.
   (C)   Pervious pavement or pervious pavement systems, including pervious
asphalt, pervious concrete, modular pavers designed to funnel water between
blocks, lattice or honeycomb shaped concrete grids with turf grass or gravel
filled voids to funnel water, plastic geocells with turf grass or gravel,
reinforced turf grass or gravel with overlaid or embedded meshes, resin-bound
pervious pavement systems, or similar structured and durable systems are
allowed as parking lot surfacing materials. Gravel, turf or other materials
that are not part of a structured system designed to manage stormwater are not
considered pervious pavement or a pervious pavement system. Pervious pavement
and pervious pavement systems must comply with the following.
      (1)   Materials must be installed and maintained in accordance with all
applicable town standards. Damaged areas must be promptly repaired. Gravel that
has migrated from a pervious pavement system onto adjacent areas must be
regularly swept and removed.
      (2)   Accessible parking spaces and accessible routes from the accessible
space to the principal structure or use served must comply with the Building
Code.
      (3)   Pervious pavement or pervious pavement systems are prohibited in
areas used for the dispensing of gasoline or other liquid engine fuels or where
other hazardous materials are used or stored.
      (4)   Pervious asphalt, pervious concrete or modular pavers may be used
for drive aisles and driveways, but no other pervious pavement systems may be
used in such areas unless expressly approved by the Community Development
Director.
      (5)   Pervious pavement or pervious pavement systems that utilize gravel
with overlaid or embedded mesh or geocells may be used only in industrial
zoning districts.
      (6)   Parking areas with pervious pavement or pervious pavement systems
must have the parking spaces marked as required by this article, except that
pervious pavement systems that utilize gravel or turf may use alternative
marking to indicate the location of the parking space, including markings at
the end of spaces on the drive aisle or curbing, wheel stops, or concrete or
paver strips in lieu of painted lines.
      (7)   Vertical clearance: all parking spaces must have overhead vertical
clearance of at least seven feet.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
Article 5: Screening
§ 154.180 APPLICABILITY.
   All multi-family residential and all nonresidential uses shall be required
to provide screening as specified in this article to block the views of the
specified features (e.g., refuse collection, service areas) from any adjacent
street or public open space or any adjacent property or public areas of a site.
For purposes of this section, public areas of a site include public parking
areas, sales areas, outside eating areas or other areas to which customers,
clients and guests are given regular access.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.181 REFUSE COLLECTION.
   (A)   (1)   In order to reduce the visual impacts of multi-family and
nonresidential development, and to avoid problems with blown trash and pests,
all refuse collection receptacles shall adhere to the standards that follow.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the term REFUSE COLLECTION
RECEPTACLES includes dumpsters, garbage cans, debris piles or grease
containers, but does not include trash or recycling receptacles for pedestrians
or for temporary construction sites.
   (B)   This section also does not apply to refuse collection receptacles such
as garbage cans that are normally stored indoors and brought outdoors on
garbage pickup days.
      (1)   Location. Outdoor refuse collection receptacles shall not be
located in a required front setback, and should, depending on the size of the
site and need for access by refuse collection vehicles, be set back from the
front plane of the principal structure.
         (a)   Refuse collection receptacles for nonresidential uses shall not
be located in any setback area or required landscaping area that abuts an
adjacent residential use.
         (b)   Refuse collection receptacles shall not be located within any
area used to meet the minimum landscaping or parking and loading area
requirements of this chapter or be located in a manner that obstructs or
interferes with any designated vehicular or pedestrian circulation routes on-
site.
      (2)   Screening enclosure. Each refuse collection receptacle shall be
screened from view on all sides by a durable sight-obscuring enclosure
consisting of an opaque fence or wall of between six feet and eight feet in
height. (See illustration below.) Where the access to the enclosure is visible
from adjacent streets or residential properties, the access shall be screened
with an opaque gate. The enclosure shall be maintained in working order and
remain closed except during trash deposits and pickups.
      (3)   Maintenance of refuse collection receptacle. The lids of
receptacles in screening enclosures without roof structures shall remain closed
between pickups and shall be maintained in working order.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.182 SERVICE, STORAGE, AND OFF-STREET LOADING AREAS.
   (A)   Service, storage and off-street loading areas shall be designed and
located to reduce the visual and acoustic impacts of these functions on
adjacent properties and public streets.
   (B)   Non-enclosed service, storage and off-street loading areas shall be
screened with durable, sight-obscuring walls and/or fences of between six feet
and eight feet in height.
   (C)   Screening materials shall be the same as, or of equal quality to, the
materials used for the primary building and landscaping.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.183 ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Rooftop mechanical equipment, including HVAC equipment and utility
equipment that serves the structure, shall be screened.
   (B)   Screening shall be accomplished through the use of parapet walls or a
sight-obscuring enclosure around the equipment constructed of one of the
primary materials used on the primary facades of the structure, and that is an
integral part of the building’s architectural design. (See illustration below.)
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
Article 6: Signage
§ 154.195 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this article to establish effective sign
regulations, which recognize public as well as private interest and investment
in our environment, and which regulate the number, size and location of signs;
to enable the public to locate goods, service and facilities without difficulty
and confusion, to prevent wasteful use of natural resources in competition
among businesses for attention, and to protect the health, safety, welfare,
enjoyment and continued attractiveness of the community.
   (B)   Intent.
      (1)   The regulations contained in this article are intended to protect
property values, create a more attractive business climate, enhance and protect
the physical appearance of commercial and industrial areas, prevent the
deterioration of areas of scenic and natural beauty and, in general, promote a
desirable community environment through the regulation of existing and proposed
outdoor signs.
      (2)   These regulations are further intended to reduce potential traffic
hazards from distracting and obstructing signs and to reduce hazards that may
be caused by signs projecting over public rights-of-way.
      (3)   It is further determined that signs which may lawfully be erected
and maintained under the provisions of this chapter are consistent with
ordinary usage, and that signs which may not lawfully be erected or maintained
under the provisions hereof are not consistent with customary usage, are an
abuse thereof and are an unwarranted invasion of the right of legitimate
business interests and of the public.
      (4)   Additionally, these regulations are designed to define and prohibit
unsafe signage; as well cause the removal of abandoned and nonconforming signs
while promoting and protecting the health, safety and welfare of the community.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.196 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. For the purpose of this article, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      A-FRAME SIGN. A ground sign which resembles the shape of a letter “A” in
profile view. Sometimes designated as “sandwich board”, “sidewalk board” or
“curb sign”.
      ABANDONED SIGN. Any sign advertising a business, use or service which has
been discontinued or the premises upon which it is located have been vacated
for a period of more than 90 days, which is a nonconforming sign.
      ALTERATION. Any change in copy, color, size or shape, which changes
appearance of a sign, or a change in position, location, construction or
supporting structure of a sign except that a copy change on a sign is not an
alteration.
      ANIMATED SIGN. A sign which has any visible moving part, flashing or
osculating lights, visible mechanical movement of any description, or other
apparent visible movement achieved by any means that move, change, flash,
osculate or visibly alters in appearance in a manner that is not permitted by
these regulations.
      ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS. Any projection, excluding signs, which is not
intended for occupancy and which extends beyond the face of an exterior wall of
a building, including, but not limited to, roof overhangs, wing walls,
mansards, unenclosed exterior balconies, marquees, canopies, pilasters, fascias
and awnings.
      AREA OF SIGN. The surface space of a sign, measured by its maximum
projection or angle of interference with sight within a single continuous
perimeter containing the sign message together with any frame, material or
color forming an integral part of the display, not including support
structures.
      AWNING SIGN. Any sign painted on or attached to or supported by an
awning.
      BANNER, FLAG OR PENNANT. Any nonridged material used for advertising
purposes attached to any structure, pole, staff, line or framing (not including
official flags of officially recognized governments or religious
organizations).
      CANOPY. A permanently roofed shelter covering a sidewalk, driveway or
other similar area, which is supported by the building to which it is attached.
      COPY. The wording or message of a sign, including the surface upon which
the wording or message is attached.
      DIGITAL. Includes any pixel based or similar technology used to display
and/or change the image and/or copy on a sign by electronic, digital, LED,
video or similar technology.
      DISPLAY FACE. See SIGN SIDE.
      ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER AND DISPLAY SCREEN. Any on premises sign or
portion of a sign that uses changing lights to display an electronic image,
video or text messages. The rate of change of the messages or images is
electronically programmed and can be modified by electronic processes. This
definition includes television screens, plasma screens, digital screens, flat
screens, LED screens, video boards and holographic displays.
      ERECT. To build, construct, alter, repair, display, relocate, attach,
hang, place, suspend, affix or maintain any sign, and shall also include the
painting of exterior wall signs.
      FACADE. The side of a building below the eaves.
      FRONTAGE, BUILDING. The horizontal, linear dimension of that side of a
building which abuts a street, a parking area, mall or other circulation area
open to the general public and having either a main widow display of the
enterprise or a public entrance to the building.
      FRONTAGE, STREET. The lineal frontage or frontages of a lot or parcel
abutting on a private or public street which provides principal access to, or
visibility of, the premises.
      HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the ground level to the top
of a sign, inclusive of berms and embankments.
      HISTORIC WORDS OR SYMBOLS. Any sign painted, engraved or carved into a
building and that no longer relates to the use or occupant of the building and
has been in place for greater than 50 years.
      LOT. A portion or parcel of land, whether part of a platted subdivision
or otherwise, occupied or intended to be occupied by a building or use and its
accessories, together with such yards as are required under the provisions of
this chapter.
      LOT STREET FRONTAGE. The length of the property line(s) or lot line(s)
bordering a public road. For corner lots, each street side property line shall
be a separate street frontage.
      MAINTENANCE. The replacing, repairing or repainting of a sign structure
made necessary by ordinary wear and tear, weather or accident. All such work
shall be performed so as to conform with all applicable code provisions.
      NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign in noncompliance with applicable number, area,
height, setback, code or specification regulations but which lawfully existed
at the time of the effective date of the chapter or amendments thereto.
      OWNER. That person who owns a sign and who either owns the property on
which the sign is located or is the owner of the business being conducted on
the premises to which the sign pertains.
      PERSON. Any person, tenant, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, institution or organization of any kind.
      PROJECTION SIGN. A building-mounted double-sided sign with the two faces
generally perpendicular to the building wall, not to include signs located on a
canopy, awning or marquee.
      PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between any street and the
lots or property abutting thereon as determined by the legal description of the
property and the records of the Kingfisher County Clerk.
      PUBLIC ENTRANCE.
         (a)   An entrance to a building or premises which is customarily used
or intended for use by the general public.
         (b)   Fire exits, special employee entrances, loading dock entrances
not generally used by the public, and the like shall not be considered as
public entrances.
      ROOF. The cover of any building, including the eaves and similar
projections. The term ROOF LINE shall also include the highest point on any
parapet wall, providing said parapet wall extends around the entire perimeter
of the building.
      SETBACK. The minimum allowable horizontal distance from a given point of
line of reference, such as a street right-of-way, to the nearest vertical wall
or other element of a building or structure.
      SIGHT TRIANGLE. The area designated as corner visibility.
      SIGN. All or part of any object, structure or device intended to be
viewed by the public for advertisement or identification of a business,
location, object, person, institution, organization, product, service or event
by means of including words, pictures, logos, symbols, colors, motion,
illumination or projected images as part of a window sign. For purposes of
removal, SIGNS shall also include all sign structures.
      SIGN STRUCTURE. Any part of a sign, including the base, supporting
columns or braces, display surface or any appendage thereto.
      SITE PLAN.
         (a)   An accurately scaled development plan that illustrates the
existing conditions on a land parcel as well as depicting details of a proposed
development.
         (b)   Among the features generally required on a site plan are the
property boundaries and lot lines, existing streets and impervious surfaces,
existing buildings and other structures, major features of the landscape,
proposed street and utility networks and planned access points.
   (B)   Types of signs.
      BENCH SIGNS, COURTESY. Any bench or seat placed for the convenience of
the public and containing advertising matter.
      BILLBOARD OR OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign or advertising device which
directs attention to or advertises products, services or activities unrelated
to the where the sign is located.
      CANOPY SIGN. Sign attached to or constructed in or on a canopy.
      CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (MANUAL). A sign on which copy, or sign panels may
be changed manually in the field, such as boards with changeable letters or
changeable pictorial panels.
      DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign guiding or directing vehicular or pedestrian
traffic within a development. Directory signs shall not be deemed to be
freestanding, ground or wall signs.
      FREESTANDING/GROUND SIGN. A sign not attached to buildings on the lot.
      GRAND OPENING SIGN. Any temporary sign which calls attention to a new
business.
      ILLUMINATED AWNING SIGN.
         (a)   A frame structure with translucent, flexible, reinforced vinyl
covering designed in awning form, but whose principal purpose and use is
signage.
         (b)   Such signs are internally illuminated by LED, fluorescent or
other light sources in fixtures approved under national and local electrical
codes.
      INSTITUTIONAL SIGN. A sign placed on premises of an institution
containing the name of and/or information relating to such uses. Uses allowed:
public facilities, schools, religious assembly, hospitals or government owned
facilities.
      JOINT IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which serves as common or collective
identification for two or more commercial or industrial uses on the same lot.
      MARQUEE SIGN. A sign depicted upon, attached to or supported by a marquee
(A permanently roofed structure attached to and supported by a building and
projecting from the building.)
      MESSAGE CENTER SIGN. Any electronic communication display device
utilizing lights, diodes or similar illumination to create letters, numerals or
graphic presentations, capable of one or more of such various functions or
operating modes as steady, scrolling, traveling, alternating or flashing copy.
      MENU BOARD SIGN. A sign which is designed and utilized for the purpose of
disclosing the availability and cost of products sold on the premises on which
it is situated, which products are delivered directly to the stall or place
where the menu board is installed, or which are delivered at some point in a
lane of travel in which the menu board sign is part.
      MONUMENT. Any sign, other than a pole sign, placed upon or supported by
the ground independent of any other structure. MONUMENT SIGNS are typically
mounted on a masonry base. As distinguished from a pole sign, the sign base of
any monument sign must be a minimum of 75% or more of the width of the sign
face that is to be situated on the base. If less than 75%, it is considered a
pole sign.
      MULTIPLE-TENANT SIGN. An on-premises sign identifying individual
businesses within a commercial building or buildings where the uses share the
same lot, access and/or parking facilities or a coordinated site plan.
      MURAL. A work of graphic art painted or applied to building wall(s) which
contains no advertising or logos.
      OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign, including a billboard or general outdoor
advertising device, which advertises or directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or activity conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than on the
same lot or within the same building upon which such sign is located.
      OPEN HOUSE SIGN. Any temporary sign that calls attention to a home for
sale or rent, which is temporarily open to the public.
      POLE. A sign erected and maintained on one or more freestanding mast(s)
or pole(s) and not attached to any building.
      POLITICAL SIGN. A sign concerning candidate for political office or
involving a ballot issue.
      PORTABLE SIGN. A sign designed to be transported from one location to
another and is not permanently mounted.
      PROJECTING SIGN. A sign attached to a building or extending in whole or
in part 15 inches or more horizontally beyond the surface of the building to
which the sign is attached and where the face of the sign is not in a plane
parallel to the wall to which it is attached, but not including a “marquee
sign,” as herein defined.
      REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign indicating the availability for sale, rent or
lease of the specific lot, building or portion of a building upon which the
sign is erected or displayed.
      RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ENTRANCE SIGN. A sign on a gateway at the
entrance of a residential complex or development denoting the name and/or
address of the complex or development.
      ROOF SIGN. A sign erected upon or over the roof or parapet of any
building and supported in whole or in part by the building.
      SUBDIVISION ENTRY SIGN. A sign integrated into the entrance treatment
(i.e., entrance wall) with the name of the subdivision or planned unit
development on one or both sides of each principal entrance. SUBDIVISION ENTRY
SIGNS shall not obstruct any public right-of-way or easement.
      SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign suspended from the ceiling of an arcade, marquee,
canopy or other architectural projection, as herein defined.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign, banner, pennant, balloon, feather flags, tear
drop flags or similar device or display which is intended for a temporary
period of display for the purpose of announcing a special event or promoting a
political campaign, special election or construction. Such sign may be
constructed of cloth, vinyl, plastic, canvas or cardboard material, with or
without a structural frame.
      TIME-TEMPERATURE-DATE SIGN. A sign which displays the time, outdoor
temperature and/or date of the month.
      V-TYPE SIGN. A sign consisting of multiple sign facings placed at angles
to each other, oriented in different directions and not exceeding ten feet
apart at any point.
      VEHICLE-MOUNTED SIGN. A sign mounted or displayed upon a trailer, van,
truck, automobile, bus, railroad car, tractor, semitrailer or other vehicle,
whether or not such vehicle is in operating condition and is not currently
registered and licensed to operate on public streets and not actively used as a
vehicle.
      WALL/BUILDING MOUNTED SIGN. A sign attached flat to any wall of an
enclosed building, where the exposed face of the sign is in a plane parallel to
the plane of said wall and extends not more than 15 inches horizontally from
the face of said wall. A sign erected upon or against the side of a roof having
an angle of 45 degrees or less from the vertical shall be considered to be a
WALL SIGN and shall be regulated as such. Also, a sign painted directly on the
surface of the building.
      WINDOW SIGN. A sign, which is painted on, applied or attached to, or
located within one foot of the interior of a window, which sign can be seen
through the window from the exterior of the structure. Merchandise which is
included in a window display shall not be included.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.197 APPLICATION; PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   The provisions of this article shall apply to the display,
construction, erection, alteration, use, location and maintenance of all signs
within the town. It shall be unlawful hereafter to display, construct, erect,
alter, use or maintain any sign, except in conformance with provisions of this
article.
   (B)   This article shall not apply to:
      (1)   The changing of the copy on a legal sign;
      (2)   Painting, repainting, cleaning or other normal maintenance and
repair of a sign or a sign structure unless a structural change is made;
      (3)   Historic words or symbols;
      (4)   Any noncommercial holiday signs and decorations; or
      (5)   Signs erected by a governmental body, such as a federal, state,
county or municipality.
   (C)   All signs not expressly permitted under this article or exempt from
regulation are prohibited in the town. Such signs include, but are not limited
to:
      (1)   Abandoned signs;
      (2)   Snipe signs. Signs shall only be attached to utility poles in
conformance with state and utility regulations and the requirements of this
chapter; and
      (3)   Vehicular signs.
   (D)   Signs and/or window coverings that cover greater than 30% of either
the interior or exterior of a window’s viewing area are strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.198 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the requirement to obtain a sign permit, but
shall otherwise comply with the terms of this chapter, except as otherwise
specifically indicated:
   (A)   Bulletin boards. Bulletin boards for public, charitable, or religious
institutions when the same are located on the premises of the institutions and
are less than 24 square feet in area, provided such sign shall be located on
the same lot as the principal structure;
   (B)   Construction signs. Construction signs when placed upon the
construction site following the issuance of a building permit. Only one such
sign shall be allowed per street frontage and each sign shall not exceed 36
square feet in area. Such sign must be removed not later than 30 days after a
certificate of occupancy is issued by the building official;
   (C)   Directory signs and office identification signs. Up to one of each
such sign per building facade, provided that no one sign shall exceed six
square feet in area;
   (D)   Signs inside a building. Signs inside a building, or other enclosed
facility, which are not meant to be viewed from the outside;
   (E)   Home occupation signs. No permit is necessary if the following
criteria are met:
      (1)   Permitted in the A-1, R-1, R-2 Zoning Districts;
      (2)   The maximum sign area is two square feet;
      (3)   The sign must be attached to the main or accessory building; and
      (4)   The sign shall not be illuminated.
   (F)   Holiday and seasonal decorations. Holiday and seasonal decorations;
   (G)   Flags, streamers, pennants and inflatables. Flags, streamers, pennants
and inflatables associated with a promotion or special event;
   (H)   Murals. Murals provided such signs do not contain any commercial
messaging;
   (I)   Political and noncommercial signs.
      (1)   Temporary signs advertising political candidates or parties,
provided that such signs may not be erected before the applicable filing period
and shall be removed within 30 days following such election; or signs
advertising support or opposition to any public issue, provided that such signs
shall not be erected more than 30 days prior to the election on the issue and
shall be removed within 30 days following such elections.
      (2)   These signs shall not be placed any closer than 15 feet from the
right-of-way;
   (J)   Real estate signs. Real estate signs which advertise the sale, rental,
or lease of the premises on which such signs are located shall be subject to
the following limitations:
      (1)   Residential district. A total sign area not to exceed 16 square
feet; or
      (2)   Nonresidential district. A maximum sign dimension of 32 square
feet; and
         (a)   One per lot frontage; or
         (b)   For lots that have frontage that exceed 300 linear feet, one
additional sign per 300 linear feet.
   (K)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Temporary signs (including temporary window sign covering less than
30% of either the interior or exterior of a window). Provided that signs may
not be erected more than 30 days before a special event.
      (2)   These shall be removed within seven calendar days following the
special event.
      (3)   They can be placed no closer than 15 feet from the edge of the
street. No more than two temporary signs shall be placed on a site per year.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.199 ENFORCEMENT; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally. All provisions of this article shall be enforced and
administered by the Zoning Administrator or other designated personnel.
   (B)   Applicability. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall
be unlawful for anyone to erect, construct, enlarge, move, convert or place any
sign in the town without first obtaining a sign permit for each such sign from
the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Application for permit. In order to apply for a sign permit, the
applicant must provide the following information, in writing, to the Zoning
Administrator:
      (1)   A site plan and elevation drawing of the proposed sign;
      (2)   Type and size of sign, including wind-load specifications and
calculations;
      (3)   The material with which the sign is to be constructed;
      (4)   The height of the sign; and
      (5)   The information to be contained on the sign.
   (D)   Submission; review time. Upon submission of the written application,
the town shall have ten business days to review the application for a sign
permit.
   (E)   Approval in writing. The Zoning Administrator shall approve sign
permits in writing. Approval shall be entered upon the original permit
application and maintained in the files of Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   Fee. Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall pay to the Town
Clerk a fee as prescribed.
   (G)   Refund of fee. The fee shall not be refunded upon the revocation of a
permit pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Expiration. Unless otherwise specified by the Zoning Administrator,
approved sign permits shall expire 180 days after the date issued.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.200 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be permitted in residential districts, unless
otherwise provided in this article.
   (A)   Real estate signs, construction signs, identification signs and
instructional signs which comply with the number, height, area, manner and
location provisions of the districts, provided that real estate signs be
removed no later than five days after the close of sale;
   (B)   Subdivision entry sign; and
   (C)   Signs identifying any of the following uses shall be allowed, subject
to a maximum sign area of 24 square feet and not more than one such sign per
lot. No sign shall exceed six feet in height;
      (1)   Public or private schools;
      (2)   Places of assembly;
      (3)   Nursing or rest homes; and
      (4)   Public parks or recreation areas.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.201 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be permitted in commercial and industrial
districts and subject to the stated regulations:
   (A)   Generally. No sign shall be erected or maintained in any category of
commercial (neighborhood or highway) or industrial zoning districts, except to
identify only the name of the owner, trade name, trademark or product symbol,
products sold and/or the business activity conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located, in conformity with the following general regulations,
unless otherwise specified in the subarea requirements of this article;
   (B)   Building-mounted/wall signs.
      (1)   Area.
         (a)   On lots less than two acres:
            1.   Total sign area of all building signs shall not exceed 5% of
the total wall area for all walls that directly face a public street or parking
lot; and
            2.   No single building sign shall exceed 24 square feet.
         (b)   On lots of two acres or more but less than five acres:
            1.   Total sign area of all building signs shall not exceed 6% of
the total wall area for all walls that directly face a public street or parking
lot; and
            2.   No single building sign shall exceed 36 square feet.
         (c)   On lots of five acres or more:
            1.   Total sign area of all building signs shall not exceed 7% of
the total wall area for all walls that directly face a public street or parking
lot; and
            2.   No single building sign shall exceed 60 square feet.
      (2)   Height. Signs shall have a maximum height equal to the eave line.
      (3)   Illumination. In no event shall any illuminated building-mounted
sign be allowed within 150 feet of the nearest residential district or
development, with this distance being measured from the nearest portion of the
sign to the nearest property line contained within any such residential
district or development.
   (C)   Freestanding signs.
      (1)   Area. Each sign shall have a maximum area based on the lot size of
the property as follows:
            1.   On lots less than two acres: 24 square feet;
            2.   On lots of two acres or more but less than five acres: 40
square feet; and
            3.   On lots of five acres or more: 60 square feet.
      (2)   Height.
            1.   For non-shopping centers, individual businesses, signs shall
have a maximum height of ten feet;
            2.   For non-shopping centers, individual businesses, signs shall
have a maximum height of ten feet;
            3.   Freestanding signs for multiple tenant developments shall not
exceed 60 square feet in area and shall not exceed ten feet in height; and
            4.   Identification signs for shopping center developments
containing multiple tenants shall be required to be designed to accommodate
space for a minimum of two secondary tenants in addition to the primary major
tenant in the development.
      (3)   Illumination. Signs may be illuminated as approval by Town
Administrator or his or her delegate.
      (4)   Shopping center development identification signs. Shopping centers,
typically containing multiple tenants such as retail or other commercial
centers which meet the following square footage requirements, shall be eligible
for one freestanding development identification sign per street frontage
classified as an arterial or collector adjacent to the property upon which the
shopping center development is located. The street frontage for a shopping
center development which is designed to have individual freestanding tenants on
platted lots or tracts that are included within the shopping center shall be
calculated based upon the cumulative arterial or collector street frontage of
such lots or tracts which are part of the respective shopping center
development. Multiple buildings planned as part of the same shopping center
development may use the cumulative total square footage of such buildings;
however, any building used in such total shall then be ineligible for any
additional freestanding signage.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.202 DOWNTOWN MIXED-USE DISTRICT SIGNS.
   Signs within the Downtown Mixed-Use District shall be subject to the
additional following requirements.
   (A)   Wall and projection signs.
      (1)   One wall or projection sign per facade on every side of the
building with exposed illumination will be permitted for each individual
business.
      (2)   The outline area of each wall sign shall not exceed 25% of the wall
area of the business on which the sign is attached. No sign may exceed 150
square feet in area.
      (3)   No sign shall project more than five feet above the roof line of
the building. This requirement shall not apply to pre-existing legal
nonconforming signs.
      (4)   Signs may project up to five feet into any portion of the right-of-
way not occupied by a road surface. Signs which overhang a sidewalk shall be a
minimum of eight feet above the sidewalk.
   (B)   Freestanding signs.
      (1)   Height. Multiple tenant signs shall not exceed ten feet in height,
including the monument base. Individual tenant freestanding signs shall not
exceed six feet in height, including the base.
      (2)   Sign area. The maximum sign area of a multiple tenant
identification sign shall be 48 square feet. Individual tenant signs shall be
no more than 24 square feet per side.
      (3)   Hanging signs. Shall be constructed on a single post and
perpendicular bracket design. The height of the signpost shall not exceed six
feet in height. The sign area shall not exceed six square feet.
   (C)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Menu boards, sandwich boards or A-frame type signs shall be allowed
for the purpose of advertising nonrecurring daily specials.
      (2)   These signs shall be removed from display each day at the close of
business.
      (3)   Limited to a maximum of six square feet in area per side up to two
sides to any one sign.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.203 DIGITAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Digital signs shall be allowed in the residential zoning districts.
      (2)   Digital signs shall only be allowed in the Downtown Mixed-Use
District with approval of a sign permit by the Town Board of Trustees upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Digital signs for churches and schools that are not located within
a commercial, industrial or general public district shall be permitted if
conforming to the following:
         (a)   Signs shall not be displayed between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m.; and
         (b)   The maximum area allowed shall be 54 square feet per sign.
   (B)   Display.
      (1)   (a)   A digital sign shall not allow any single display,
advertisement, or message to change more frequently than once every six
seconds, with a transition period between each display of one second or less.
         (b)   The maximum brightness levels for a digital sign shall not
exceed five-tenths foot- candle over ambient light levels at all times, day or
night.
         (c)   Certification must be provided to the town at the time of the
sign permit application demonstrating that the sign has been preset to
automatically adjust the brightness to these levels or lower.
      (2)   Digital sign illumination requirements.
         (a)   The luminance of a digital sign shall be measured at least 30
minutes before sunset, with a foot-candle meter with the digital sign or
displaying a black image at a pre-set distance, and again with the sign on
displaying a white image at the same distance.
         (b)   All measurements shall be taken perpendicular to the face of the
sign at the distance determined by the sign area versus measurement distance.
The following formula shall be used to determine the distance:
 
Measurement distance = square root of the area of sign square footage x 100
 
         (c)   If the difference between the readings is five tenths foot-
candle or less at night, the brightness is adjusted correctly.
         (d)   All digital signs shall be equipped with a sensor or other
device that automatically adjusts the sign to comply with the five-tenths foot-
candle measurement standard. Certification must be provided to the town at the
time of the sign permit application.
         (e)   1.   Existing digital signs may use a timer, photocell or other
means to adjust the brightness.
            2.   Timers shall be set to lower the brightness from 30 minutes
before sunset to 30 minutes after sunrise throughout the year.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.204 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs legally in existence at the time of the adoption of this
chapter, which do not conform to the requirements of this chapter, shall be
considered nonconforming signs.
   (B)   All nonconforming signs, including billboards, commercial advertising
structures, and statuary or supporting members shall be completely removed from
premises not later than three years from the effective date of June 30, 1973.
   (C)   All permanent signs and sign structures shall be brought into
conformance with the sign regulations when and if the following occurs:
      (1)   (a)   The sign is removed, relocated, or significantly altered.
Significant alterations include changes in the size or dimension of the sign.
         (b)   Changes to the sign copy or the replacement of a sign face on a
nonconforming sign shall not be considered a significant alteration;
      (2)   If more than 50% of the sign area is damaged, it shall be repaired
to conform to this chapter;
      (3)   The sign is located within the sight triangle and obstructs the
view of motorists;
      (4)   An alteration in the structure of a sign support;
      (5)   A change in the mechanical facilities or type of illumination;
      (6)   A change in the material of the sign face;
      (7)   The property on which the nonconforming sign is located submits a
subdivision or land development application requiring municipal review and
approval; and
      (8)   The property on which the nonconforming sign is located undergoes a
change of land use requiring the issuance of either a use and occupancy permit,
or a change of use and occupancy permit by the town.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.205 MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Every sign, including those exempted from this chapter, shall be
maintained in good structural condition at all times.
   (B)   All signs shall be kept neatly painted, including all metal parts and
supports thereof that are not rust resistant.
   (C)   The building inspector or authorized representative shall inspect and
shall have authority to order the painting, repair, alteration or removal of
any sign which constitutes a hazard to the health, safety or general welfare of
the public.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO NONRESIDENTIAL USE
§ 154.220 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish additional standards and
conditions that shall apply to permitted, special use and accessory as noted in
§
154.076 Table of Uses.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.221 ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS USE.
   (A)   Approved location. Adult oriented businesses use shall be permitted by
special use permit in districts zoned industrial as depicted on the zoning map
on file with the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Separation.
      (1)   Separation from other uses.
         (a)   No adult oriented business use shall be allowed to locate, or
expand to, within 1,250 feet of any residentially zoned lot, religious
assembly, school, park or recreation use, or childcare center.
         (b)   This separation distance shall be measured as a straight line
without regard to intervening properties or structures, from the nearest
exterior wall of the adult entertainment establishment to the nearest lot line
of the lot that is zoned residential or that contains the religious assembly,
school, park or recreation use, or childcare center.
         (c)   No adult-oriented business use shall be allowed to locate, or
expand to, within 500 feet of any business licensed to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages. The separation distance shall be measured as a straight line without
regard to intervening properties or structures, from the nearest exterior
structural wall of each business.
      (2)   Separation from other adult oriented business use. No adult
oriented business use shall be allowed to locate or expand within 1,250 feet of
any other adult oriented business use.
   (C)   Access. Direct access to and from an adult oriented business use shall
not be provided from a residential street, nor shall access be allowed through
any private lot, private driveway or private street in a district zoned other
than an industrial zoned district.
   (D)   Frontage. The property on which the adult business use is located
shall have a minimum of 100 feet of street frontage.
   (E)   Screening. Appropriate screening shall be provided along all non-
street facing lot lines. Such screening shall include landscaping which
incorporates a mix of shade trees, ornamental trees, evergreen trees and
shrubs. A berm and a solid or semisolid fence or hedge not more than six feet
high may also be included as part of the screening. All screening shall be
maintained in good condition by the owner or owners of the property.
   (F)   Windows and doors. The building that the adult oriented business use
is located within shall be designated in such a fashion that all openings,
entries and windows prevent views into such establishments from any sidewalk,
walkway, street or other public area. Further, no merchandise or pictures or
products or entertainment on the premises shall be displayed in window areas or
any area where such merchandise or pictures can be viewed from the sidewalk in
front of the building. No adult oriented business activity shall take place
partially or totally outside the building. No flashing lights and/or lighting
which leaves the impression of motion or movement shall be permitted.
   (G)   Signage. Adult oriented business uses shall be limited to one wall-
mounted sign no greater than one square foot of sign per linear foot of wall
length, not to exceed a total of 50 square feet. Said sign shall not flash,
blink or move by mechanical means and shall not extend above the roof line of
the building. Signs must meet all requirements of §§
154.195 through
154.205.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.222 ANIMAL CARE AND KENNELS.
   All outdoor animal runs, pens or enclosures shall be located at least 25
feet from lot lines abutting residentially zoned districts. Kennels shall
require a minimum lot size of three acres.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.223 CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS.
   Ingress and egress for charitable institutions shall be designed so as to
minimize traffic congestion.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.224 COMPOST FACILITY.
   The following additional standards and conditions shall apply to all compost
facility.
   (A)   Landscape buffer. Compost use shall be subject to the landscape buffer
standards of §§
154.140 through
154.146, provided that either the Planning Commission or the Board of Trustees
may require a greater buffer to protect adjacent property from adverse visual
and/or other impacts associated with a specific compost facility.
   (B)   Traffic circulation.
      (1)   Ingress and egress for the operation shall be designed so as to
minimize traffic congestion.
      (2)   No more than one vehicle entrance shall be allowed for each 660
feet of lot frontage on a public street. There shall be enough room on-site to
accommodate peak traffic volume and company vehicles.
   (C)   Storage bins. Storage bins or trailers will be allowed to be stored
on-site as an ancillary use, providing they are durable, covered and meet the
same setbacks required for the structure on the site. The bins shall be
completely screened from view from off-site.
   (D)   Litter control. The property shall be maintained in a clean, litter-
free condition.
   (E)   Hazardous materials. Operations shall not involve the on-site holding,
storage or disposal of hazardous substances, except substances used for the
operation of the facility, such as fuel.
   (F)   Material. No food scraps (except for vegetable scraps) or other
vermin-attracting materials shall be processed, stored or disposed of on the
site of a compost facility. Only yard/garden wastes are allowed as compost
material.
   (G)   Hours of operation. Uses shall not operate before sunrise or after
sunset if located within 1,000 feet of a residentially zoned district.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.225 CONVENIENCE STORE AND VEHICLE REPAIR USE.
   The following additional regulations shall apply to all convenience stores
which have gasoline pumps, vehicle repair uses and other businesses that sell
gasoline or diesel fuel.
   (A)   Traffic. All traffic concerns must be adequately addressed to promote
safety and reasonable traffic flow.
   (B)   Screening.
      (1)   Appropriate screening shall be provided along all lot lines
abutting a residentially zoned property. Such screening shall include
landscaping which incorporates a mix of shade trees, ornamental trees,
evergreen trees and shrubs.
      (2)   A berm and a solid or semi-solid fence or hedge not more than six
feet high may also be included as part of the screening. All screening shall be
maintained in good condition by the owner or owners of the property.
   (C)   Design. The design location, colors and screening of the gas pumps
shall be such that they are compatible with the design of the building.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.226 MEDICAL MARIJUANA USE.
   Medical marijuana use shall be subject to the following additional standards
and conditions.
   (A)   General conditions. The following conditions will be made for medical
marijuana facilities within the municipal boundaries of the town.
      (1)   Structures where medical marijuana is processed, stored or
dispensed must be equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no
odors are detectable off premises.
      (2)   Medical marijuana grow facilities shall conduct activities in a
manner that will not constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be
deemed to exist if growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor
or vibration that is detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or
interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
      (3)   All medical marijuana dispensary, commercial medical marijuana
growing and/or processing facilities, and medical marijuana wholesale and/or
storage facility establishments shall be located within an entirely enclosed
and secure with limited access structure, as required by the rules and
regulations of the Department of Health, as may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   (a)   Medical marijuana grow, processing, storage and wholesale
facilities, including any lighting, plumbing or electrical components used
shall comply with municipal building and fire codes.
         (b)   The facility must be properly ventilated so as not to create
humidity, mold or other related problems. Lighting in grow facilities shall not
exceed 1,000 watts per light. The use of gas products (CO2, butane and the
like) or CO2 and ozone generators in the grow facilities is prohibited.
      (5)   Growing marijuana at a medical marijuana grow facility shall not be
visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent property.
   (B)   Separation. For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter,
the distances described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight
line from the nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use
described in herein is located to the nearest property line of the building or
unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located.
      (1)   Separation from other uses. Retail marijuana establishment permit
will not be granted to any applicants where the proposed location would be
located within 1,000 feet of any of the following uses:
         (a)   Private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational
or trade school, college, university or any childcare center;
         (2)   Any library or museum;
         (3)   Any place of worship or religious assembly;
         (4)   Any public playground, public park, pool or recreation facility;
or
         (5)   Any juvenile or adult transitional living facility, inmate
transitional living facility, halfway houses, substance abuse rehabilitation or
treatment center.
      (2)   Medical marijuana grow facility separation from residential zone
district. Medical marijuana grow facility shall be a permitted use in any
agricultural zoning district and limited industrial zoning districts wherein
growing marijuana crops are no closer than 300 feet from any residential zone
district.
      (3)   Separation from other medical marijuana facility. No medical
marijuana facility shall be allowed to locate or expand within 1,000 feet of
another medical marijuana facility.
   (C)   Zoning. The following additions will be made for the zoning
classifications where medical marijuana related activities are allowed within
the municipal boundaries of the town.
      (1)   Medical marijuana dispensary shall be a permitted use in all
commercial zoning districts.
      (2)   Medical marijuana processing, wholesale, or storage facilities
shall be a permitted use in all industrial and agriculture zoning districts.
      (3)   (a)   Medical marijuana growing shall be a permitted use in any
agricultural zoning district and limited industrial zoning districts.
         (b)   Separation requirements found in division (B) of this section
will apply.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.227 MODULAR STRUCTURE AS TEMPORARY USE.
   Modular units serving as temporary use shall be subject to the following
standards.
   (A)   Building Code. All applicable provisions of the currently adopted
Building Code shall be followed.
   (B)   Expiration.
      (1)   The special use permit allowing the modular structure to be used as
a temporary use shall expire one year after the approval date by the Board of
Trustees.
      (2)   The holder of the special use permit may apply for an extension of
the special use permit by following the procedure outlined in §
154.040.
   (C)   Use prohibited. The use of modular unit is prohibited in: Residential
Estate (RE); Low Density Residential (R-1); and Medium Density Residential (R-
2) Zoning Districts.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.228 TRANSITIONAL LIVING FACILITY, INMATE TRANSITIONAL LIVING FACILITY AND
HALFWAY HOUSES.
   Transitional living facility and halfway houses transitional living
facility, inmate transitional living facility and halfway houses shall be
subject to the following standards.
   (A)   Size. A maximum of ten persons, including staff, shall reside in the
facility at one time.
   (B)   Separation. No transitional living facility, inmate transitional
living facility and/or halfway houses shall be located within 1,500 feet of any
other transitional living facility, inmate transitional living facility,
halfway houses or treatment facility, nor shall a transitional living facility,
inmate transitional living facility or halfway houses be located within 300
feet of any religious assembly, school, park, licensed childcare facility, or
residentially zoned property.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.229 VEHICLE/EQUIPMENT SALES, VEHICLE/EQUIPMENT STORAGE YARD AND VEHICLE
REPAIR.
   Vehicle/equipment sales, vehicle/equipment storage yard and vehicle repair
uses shall be subject to the following standards.
   (A)   Storage and parking areas.
      (1)   All vehicle and equipment storage areas and parking areas must be
hard-surfaced (with asphalt or concrete), dust-free.
      (2)   Vehicle and equipment storage areas and parking areas located in
the agricultural and industrial district may be constructed with six inches of
level compacted crushed gravel, limestone or recycled asphalt.
   (B)   Landscaping and buffering. Landscaping and buffering must be provided
in compliance with §§
154.140 through
154.146.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 154.240 PURPOSE; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and restrict uses,
structures, lots and signs that were established legally prior to the effective
date of this chapter, that no longer conform to the requirements of this
subchapter or future ordinance amendments.
      (2)   All such situations are collectively referred to in this chapter as
“nonconformities.”
      (3)   While nonconformities may continue, this subchapter is intended to
achieve their eventual elimination, in order to preserve the integrity of this
chapter and the character of the town.
   (B)   Nonconformities regulated. The following nonconformities are regulated
by this section:
      (1)   Nonconforming uses of land without a building or structure is for
nonconforming uses of land where there are no buildings or structures;
      (2)   Nonconforming uses of conforming buildings is for when the building
or structure is conforming but the use is nonconforming; and
      (3)   Nonconforming buildings and structures that have conforming uses is
for nonconforming buildings or structures that have conforming uses.
   (C)   Violations. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as
authorizing approval of a building or premises in violation of zoning
regulations in effect at the time of the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.241 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND WITHOUT A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   The lawful use of land existing at the time of the passage of this chapter,
where the aggregate value of all permanent buildings or structures in less than
$1,000, even though such use does not conform to the provisions hereof, may
continue subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Discontinuance. If said nonconforming use or any portion thereof is
discontinued for a period of six months, or changed, any future use of such
land, or change in use, shall be in conformity with the provisions of the
district in which said land is located.
   (B)   Expansion or movement. A nonconforming use shall not be expanded or
moved in whole or in part to any other portion of the lot or parcel on which it
is located.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.242 NONCONFORMING USES OF CONFORMING BUILDINGS.
   If a lawful use, involving conforming individual buildings or structures
existing at the effective date of adoption of or amendment to this chapter,
becomes nonconforming under the terms of this chapter, said use may continue,
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Change of nonconforming uses. A building use may be changed to another
nonconforming use of an equal or a more restrictive classification or to a
conforming use. However, the use shall not thereafter be changed to a less
restricted use. A building permit is required for any structural alterations.
   (B)   Effect of discontinuance. In the event that a nonconforming use of any
building or premises is discontinued for a period of one year, the use of the
building or premises shall thereafter conform to the use regulations of the
district.
   (C)   Expansion of a nonconforming use. No nonconforming use, except when
required by law, shall be enlarged, extended or reconstructed, unless such
change is to a use permitted in the district.
   (D)   Restoration of a damaged use. When a nonconforming use of a building
is damaged by fire, explosion, natural cause or public enemy, by more than 50%
of its true value, said building shall be restored only if it conforms to the
district regulations.
   (E)   Remodeling. Improvements or remodeling which do not increase the size
or intensity of use shall be permitted.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.243 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES THAT HAVE CONFORMING USES.
   Although a structure or building does not conform to the district
regulations of this chapter for a minimum lot size, lot width, setback
requirements, height, coverage, parking, other characteristics of the
structure, or its location on the lot, the lawful existence of a structure or
building at the effective date of adoption of this chapter may continue,
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Alteration or enlargement of buildings and structures.
      (1)   Generally. A nonconforming building or structure shall not be
enlarged in any manner unless said building or structure, including additions
and enlargements, is made to conform to all of the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
      (2)   Exceptions. If a building or structure is conforming as to use, but
nonconforming as to setbacks or height or off-street parking space, the
building or structure may be enlarged or added to provided that the enlargement
or addition complies with the setback or height requirements and the existing
building and the addition complies with the off-street parking requirements of
the district in which said building or structure is located.
   (B)   Restoration of a damaged building. When a nonconforming building is
damaged by fire, explosion, natural causes or a public enemy, by more than 50%
of its true value, it shall be restored only if it is done in a manner that
conforms to the district regulations.
   (C)   Relocation. No such building shall be moved for any reason for any
distance whatever, unless it hereafter conforms to all provisions of the zoning
district in its new location.
   (D)   Remodeling. Improvements or remodeling which do not increase the size
or intensity of use shall be permitted.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.244 SCREENING NONCONFORMING COMMERCIAL USES.
   All nonconforming commercial uses of property abutting residentially zoned
property shall be adequately screened from view in accordance with the
regulations of §§
154.140 through
154.146.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.255 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the town, in addition to other remedies,
may institute any proper action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction or alteration, repair, conversion,
maintenance or use, to restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to prevent
the occupancy of said building, structure, or land, or to prevent any illegal
act, conduct, business or use in or about said premises.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES
§ 154.270 PURPOSE.
   Telecommunication towers, antennas and other wireless facilities, including
supporting structures, present land use concerns that should be dealt with by
protecting residential uses, encouraging co- location, minimizing the number of
wireless facilities in a manner that does not discourage market access or
competition, and preventing or limiting adverse effects on off-site premises.
The intent of these provisions is to provide for the continued establishment of
new wireless communication providers and the expansion of existing wireless
communication services within the town, while simultaneously protecting
neighborhoods, all through minimizing adverse visual and operational effects of
facilities through careful design, sighting, screening, camouflage and co-
location requirements encouraging creative design and camouflage measures.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.271 EXCLUSIONS; APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Exclusions.
      (1)   Any tower installed by a government entity that is for emergency
communications systems is exempt from these standards.
      (2)   Any antenna of less than 35 feet in total height is exempt from
this subchapter, but all installations must comply with all rules and
regulations of applicable state and local building codes and the standards
published by the Electronic Industries Association. All support structures and
antennas must be constructed and operated in a manner that does not create
electromagnetic or other interference with the town’s radio frequencies and
public safety operations as required by the Federal Communications Commission.
      (3)   All existing structures established prior to this subchapter are
permitted as they were previously.
      (4)   All antennas used exclusively for amateur communications are exempt
from this subchapter.
   (B)   Application for telecommunication tower permit.
      (1)   All new communication antennas and towers require a permit if they
exceed 35 feet in height.
      (2)   Applications must be made at least 30 days prior to the following
Planning and Zoning Commission meeting to be heard. All applications must be
reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by Town Board of
Trustees.
      (3)   Plans certified by a licensed engineer must be on file with the
building inspector at the time when application is made. These plans must
contain the following:
         (a)   A site plan, three copies, drawn to scale specifying the
location of tower(s), guy anchors, if any, transmission or support building(s)
and other accessory uses, parking areas, access roads and detailed landscaped
areas. The site plan shall be designed in accordance with §
154.041. The plan must also include provisions for proper drainage.
         (b)   A report from a registered structural or civil engineer
indicating the tower height and design, structure, installation and total
anticipated capacity of the structure, including the number and types of
antennas which could be accommodated. This data shall satisfactorily
demonstrate that the proposed tower conforms to all applicable requirements of
the International Codes Council Section 3108 and American National Standards
Institute (TIA-222-G).
   (C)   Fee for application and permit.
      (1)   Permit fees.
         (a)   The permit fees for performing the activity described in this
chapter shall be set periodically by the Town Board of Trustees, by duly
adopted resolution, and the fees may be amended by resolution of the Town Board
of Trustees.
         (b)   All towers must obtain a business license from the town.
      (2)   Sales tax. All commercial tower permits must reflect the town as
the point of sale with regard to communications using the tower. The town’s
sales tax shall be collected as required by applicable sales tax ordinances.
   (D)   Leasing public properties. The cost of erecting a new antenna support
structure on public properties shall be evaluated on a case by case basis,
based upon consideration of previous agreements and current market values in
surrounding areas.
   (E)   Hearings. All antenna applications will be heard by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and its recommendation shall be forwarded to the Town Board
of Trustees for final approval or disapproval of antenna applications.
   (F)   Ownership list required.
      (1)   (a)   The applicant shall submit a current list of names and
addresses of all record property owners within a 300-foot radius of the
exterior boundaries of the proposed site of the tower, certified by a bonded
abstractor or the County Assessor of Kingfisher County.
         (b)   Regardless of the distance requirement, the list shall include
the names and addresses of all property owners who own property abutting the
parcel on which the tower is located.
      (2)   Where the tower is located on leased property, then the list shall
include those persons abutting the entire tract owned by the lessor. For
example, if the tower site is leased from a quarter section of land, then the
owners abutting the quarter section would be notified.
      (3)   Where the proposed tower exceeds 100 feet in height, then the list
of surrounding property owners shall be extended to include those property
owners within a radius of the site equal to three times the height of the
proposed tower, plus all abutting landowners.
   (G)   Notice of hearing.
      (1)   At least 20 days prior to hearing before the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the Zoning Administrator shall mail a notice of public hearing to
all persons within the areas described above.
      (2)   The notice shall include the following:
         (a)   Legal description and approximate street address of area for
location of the tower;
         (b)   A brief description of the proposed tower; and
         (c)   Date, time and place of public hearing.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.272 CRITERIA FOR REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   All new antennas must be erected on an existing communications tower
already located in the town unless it is proven by the applicant that this
requirement is ineffective, non-feasible or impossible.
   (B)   If there are not existing towers that are suitable for co-location,
then an alternative is to erect a tower on public land unless it is proven by
the applicant that this requirement is ineffective or not feasible.
   (C)   If co-location on an existing tower or location on public land is not
effective, feasible or possible, then the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Town Board of Trustees may consider approval of an antenna support structure in
the A, LC, HC or I-1 Zoning Districts, providing the applicant accurately
addresses the following issues:
      (1)   Whether the applicant proves the tower or site will be designated
or laid out to accommodate future multiple users; and
      (2)   Whether the proposed tower is to be located in an area where it
would be unobtrusive and would not substantially detract from the aesthetics or
neighborhood character due to either location, natural setting of the area or
lack of visibility caused by natural growth or other factors.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.273 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   All tower sites must adhere to the following requirements.
   (A)   (1)   All sites must be enclosed by a fence at least six feet in
height, the nature and type to be determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may require evergreen screening
where necessary to protect adjacent property owners.
   (B)   The proposed site must have an approved, all-weather, ingress/egress
road and shall meet all design specifications.
   (C)   No on-site advertising will be permitted.
   (D)   The site must be continually maintained in accordance with town
ordinances and permit requirements.
   (E)   Hazard warning and no trespassing signs must be posted on all sides of
the fence.
   (F)   Noise levels for any combustion-fired generators or other apparatus
must be less than 100 Dba as registered from the property immediately adjoining
the site on the nearest side.
   (G)   A set back of at least the height of the proposed tower is required.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.274 RESTRICTIONS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All structures must be able to withstand a minimum wind load of 90
mph.
   (B)   All antennas that are mounted on an existing building or structure
shall be aesthetically pleasing with the surrounding areas as approved by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   All antenna support structures must be of monopole design unless it is
proven by the applicant that this type of structure cannot be utilized without
undue hardship.
   (D)   No advertisement shall be allowed on any tower.
   (E)   Lighting shall be as required by the Federal Communications Commission
and/or by the Federal Aviation Administration. No other lighting shall be
incorporated if not required by either agency or specified by the town’s
Planning and Zoning Commission as a condition of the use permit.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.275 HEIGHT OF TOWER.
   Communication towers may exceed the height limitations of the zoning
district in which it is located, as provided in this subchapter, provided no
tower may exceed 200 feet in height. All communication towers shall comply with
federal, state and local airport height regulations in accordance herewith.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
PLATTING AND SUBDIVIDING
§ 154.290 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   This section establishes uniform procedures for platting and
subdivision requirements as provided in 11 O.S. §§ 47-113 et seq.
      (2)   A final plat or minor plat shall be approved and recorded by the
town prior to any land division that is subject to these provisions and prior
to the beginning of any new development within municipal boundaries.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following land divisions are exempt from the
requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Use of existing or expanding cemeteries complying with all state
and local laws and regulations; and
      (2)   A division of land created by order of court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (C)   Applications and procedures.
      (1)   An application must be completed and accepted for review by the
Zoning Administrator. All applications shall be made on forms provided by the
town.
      (2)   To be complete, it must comply with all provisions of this section
and any other sections pertaining to the application and must contain all
required documentation for the application.
   (D)   Processing. The proposed subdivision may be processed as a standard
subdivision or as a minor plat subdivision as follows:
      (1)   Standard subdivision plat:
         (a)   Preliminary plat (and construction plans for improvements);
         (b)   Final plat;
         (c)   Building permit; and
         (d)   Occupancy permit.
      (2)   Minor plat subdivision (as required).
   (E)   Classification. Upon initial receipt of a subdivision proposal, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine if the proposal shall be classified as a
standard subdivision plat or a minor subdivision plat. If a subdivision is
determined to be a minor subdivision plat, the Zoning Administrator shall
determine what information, drawings and procedure will be necessary for the
submission of the minor plat subdivision plat to the Planning Commission in
accordance with these regulations and the policies of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.291 TYPES OF PLATS.
   Below lists the various types of plats and their purposes:
 
Types of Plats
Section Type of Plat               Purpose
                                   As the first stage in the platting approval
                                   process, the purpose of a preliminary plat
                                   is to determine the general layout of the
154.292 Pre-application conference subdivision, the adequacy of public
                                   facilities needed to serve the intended
                                   development, and the overall compliance of
                                   the land division with applicable
                                   requirements of this chapter.
                                   As the second stage in the platting approval
                                   process, the purpose of a final plat is to
                                   ensure that the proposed subdivision and
                                   development of the land is consistent with
                                   all standards of this chapter pertaining to
                                   the adequacy of public facilities; that
154.295 Final plat                 public improvements to serve the subdivision
                                   or development have been installed and
                                   accepted by the town or that provision for
                                   such installation has been made; and that
                                   all other requirements and conditions have
                                   been satisfied or provided for to allow the
                                   final plat to be recorded.
                                   The purpose of a minor plat is to provide a
                                   limited means for simple land division under
                                   certain circumstances, which result in
                                   minimal lot creation. In circumstances where
                                   adequate infrastructure, easements, and
                                   right-of-way already exist and the extension
154.296 Minor plat                 of any town facilities to serve any lot
                                   within the subdivision is not required, then
                                   a minor plat may be suitable as an
                                   instrument to subdivide one lot into three
                                   or fewer lots. The minor plat is also
                                   suitable for the purpose of combining lots
                                   where infrastructure, easements and right-
                                   of-way is not affected.
                                   The purpose of a replat is to re-subdivide
                                   all or any part of a previously platted
154.297 Replat                     subdivision, that is beyond the definition
                                   of an amending plat and which does not
                                   require the vacation of the entire preceding
                                   plat.
                                   The purpose of an amending plat shall be to
                                   provide an expeditious means of making minor
154.298 Amending plat              revisions to a recorded plat. An amending
                                   plat does not allow for the creation of new
                                   lots and is designed only to modify existing
                                   recorded plats.
 
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.292 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Generally. The purpose of a pre-application conference is to provide
applicants an opportunity to confer early and informally with staff and present
subdivision and development proposals for comments and advice on the
procedures, specifications and standards required by the town. This feedback,
early in the development process, can help applicants avoid major plan
revisions that are more cumbersome to change after land use applications have
been submitted.
      (1)   Applicants should keep in mind that, due to the preliminary nature
of information discussed during pre-application conferences, town staff
reserves the right to determine specific requirements after receiving official
land use applications.
      (2)   Information obtained during a pre-application conference is subject
to subsequent changes in zoning and other applicable regulations. A pre-
application conference does not lock in any fees or development requirements in
any way.
   (B)   Scheduling a pre-application conference.
      (1)   Pre-application meetings are scheduled on a first come, first
served basis and should be scheduled not less than 14 days prior to the
submittal of a land use development application.
      (2)   Required materials:
         (a)   Complete pre-application conference request form;
         (b)   Preliminary site-plan drawing; and
         (c)   Pre-application conference fee.
      (3)   (a)   Staff will contact applicants by telephone or email to
schedule a date and time.
         (b)   Conferences will be scheduled as soon as possible following
receipt of completed forms and materials.
         (c)   Please be advised that incomplete information or vague
development plans may result in a delay in scheduling pre-application
conference meetings.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.293 FILING FEE.
   To defray the cost of review and administration procedures, a filing fee
shall be paid to the Town Clerk at the time of submittal. Filing fees for
performing the activity described in this chapter shall be set periodically by
the Town Board of Trustees, by duly adopted resolution, and the fees may be
amended by resolution of the Town Board of Trustees.
Fee Schedule
Type of Submittal Fee
Fee Schedule
Type of Submittal          Fee
Pre-application conference Fee shall be as provided by the Town Board by
                           resolution
Preliminary plat           Fee shall be as provided by the Town Board by
                           resolution
Final plat                 Fee shall be as provided by the Town Board by
                           resolution
Minor subdivision plat     Fee shall be as provided by the Town Board by
                           resolution
Replats                    Fee shall be as provided by the Town Board by
                           resolution
Amending plat              Fee shall be as provided by the Town Board by
                           resolution
 
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.294 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Generally. The purpose of a preliminary plat shall be to determine the
general layout of the subdivision, the adequacy of public facilities needed to
serve the intended development and the overall compliance of the land division
with applicable requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   Exceptions. A preliminary plat is not required when a minor plat is
submitted.
      (2)   Required.
         (a)   The applicant shall prepare a preliminary plat for submission to
the Planning Commission. It shall conform to the minimum requirements of these
regulations and the zoning code and be in compliance with the town’s
comprehensive plan.
      (b)   The preliminary plat shall include all contiguous land partially or
fully owned or under option by the applicant. The applicant must submit all
required documents as specified in this division before the Planning Commission
can commence preliminary plat review.
   (B)   Application and procedures.
      (1)   Pre-application conference. Prior to a preliminary plat submittal,
the developer or his or her authorized agent is encouraged to meet with the
Zoning Administrator who will determine if a preliminary plat is required.
Should preliminary plat approval be required, the relationship of the proposed
subdivision to the town’s comprehensive plan, storm water management criteria,
zoning ordinance, street requirements, utility service, and the general
character of the development may be discussed to acquaint the developer with
town platting requirements and procedures.
      (2)   Fees. The developer shall pay a non-refundable application fee for
each preliminary plat submitted. Application fees shall be set periodically by
the Town Board of Trustees, by duly adopted resolution, and the fees may be
amended by resolution of the Town Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Application content. Applications for a preliminary plat shall be
submitted on a form supplied by the town with the required information as
stated on the application form. When more than one sheet is necessary to
accommodate the entire plat area, an index sheet at appropriate scale showing
the entire area shall be attached. The date the plat was submitted shall
legibly appear on the plat.
      (4)   Accessories. An application for a preliminary plat may be
accompanied by:
         (a)   An application for plat and/or zoning approval; and
         (b)   Construction plans.
      (5)   Approval. However, approval of each shall be separate and in
accordance with this chapter and with §§
154.325 through
154.332.
      (6)   Responsible official and initial review. The Zoning Administrator
shall be the responsible official and the Town Board of Trustees shall be the
official review body for a preliminary plat.
      (7)   Re-submittal. Re-submittal following review shall review each
pending preliminary plat application and recommend either:
         (a)   Approval of the preliminary plat;
         (b)   Denial of the preliminary plat; or
         (c)   Approval of the preliminary plat with specific conditions.
      (8)   Necessary revisions and comments. Necessary revisions and comments
shall be forwarded to all individuals listed on the application.
         (1)   The developer shall provide the Zoning Administrator two
reproducible copies of the preliminary plat with revisions addressed and
resolved.
         (2)   Once the revisions have been resubmitted, the Zoning
Administrator shall then review the preliminary plat for compliance with
original recommendations.
   (C)   Accompanying materials.
      (1)   Contents of a preliminary plat. Three hard copies and a digital pdf
file of the preliminary plat drawn to a scale of 100 feet to one inch shall be
provided, and shall contain or be accompanied by the following information:
         (a)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   The name and address of the owner or owners of the land to be
subdivided, the name and address of the applicant if other than the owner, and
the name and address of the land surveyor;
         (c)   The date of preparation of the plat, north arrow and scale;
         (d)   Key or location map showing location of subdivisions within the
mile section;
         (e)   An accurate legal description of the property;
         (f)   The location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the
proposed subdivision;
         (g)   The names of all adjacent subdivisions and the names, location
and widths of all existing and proposed streets, easements, drainage ways and
other public ways on and adjacent to the property;
         (h)   The locations and widths of all oil, gas and petroleum product
easements and of all existing utilities on or adjacent to the subject property;
         (i)   A topographic map of the subdivided area with land contours not
having two feet, contour intervals, referenced to a United States Geological
Survey or Coast and Geodetic Survey benchmark or monument;
         (j)   The location and description of all existing structures, water
bodies and watercourses;
         (k)   The location and dimension of all proposed drainage ways,
pedestrian ways, bike paths, parks, playgrounds, public ways, or other public
or private reservations;
         (l)   All proposed lots progressively numbered and building setback
lines;
         (m)   All proposed blocks progressively numbered;
         (n)   When more than one sheet is necessary to accommodate the entire
plan area, an index sheet at appropriate scale showing the entire area shall be
attached; and
         (o)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Planning
Commission as reasonably necessary for the full and proper consideration of the
proposed subdivision.
      (2)   Current title commitment. The applicant shall furnish with the
application to the town a current title commitment issued by a title insurance
company authorized to do business in the state, a title opinion letter from an
attorney licensed to practice in the state, or some other acceptable proof of
ownership, identifying all persons having an ownership interest in the property
subject to the preliminary plat.
   (D)   Approval procedures.
      (1)   Approval action by the Planning Commission. The Commission shall:
         (a)   1.   Review the preliminary plat application, the findings of
the building inspector, and any other information available.
            2.   From all such information, the Commission shall determine
whether the preliminary plat conforms to the regulations of this chapter.
         (b)   Act within 60 calendar days following the official filing date
of the preliminary plat application, unless the applicant submits a waiver of
right to 60-day action.
            1.   If no decision is rendered by the Commission within the 60-day
period described above or such longer period as may have been agreed upon, the
preliminary plat, as submitted, shall be deemed approved by the Commission.
            2.   Take one of the following actions:
               a.   Approve the preliminary plat;
               b.   Approve the preliminary plat with conditions, which shall
mean the preliminary plat shall be considered to have been approved once such
conditions are fulfilled; or
               c.   Deny the preliminary plat.
      (2)   Approval action by the Town Board of Trustees.
         (a)   The Town Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   a.   Review the preliminary plat application, the findings of
the Zoning Administrator, decision from the Planning Commission, and any other
information available.
               b.   From all such information, the Town Board of Trustees shall
determine whether the preliminary plat conforms to the regulations of this
chapter.
            2.   a.   Act within 60 calendar days following the action of the
Planning Commission, unless the applicant submits a waiver of right to 60-day
action.
               b.   If no decision in rendered by the Town Board of Trustees
within the 60-day period described above or such longer period as may have been
agreed upon, the preliminary plat, as submitted, shall be deemed to be
approved.
            3.   Take one of the following actions:
               a.   Approve the preliminary plat;
               b.   Approve the preliminary plat with conditions, which shall
mean the preliminary plat shall be considered to have been approved once such
conditions are fulfilled; or
               c.   Deny the preliminary plat.
      (3)   Criteria for preliminary plat approval.
         (a)   The following criteria shall be used to determine whether the
preliminary plat application shall be approved, approved with conditions or
denied.
         (b)   Approval criteria:
            1.   The preliminary plat is consistent with all zoning
requirements for the property, including any applicable planned unit
development (PUD) zoning standards;
            2.   The proposed provision and configuration of public
improvements including, but not limited to, roads, water, wastewater, storm
drainage, park facilities, open spaces, easements, and right-of-way are
adequate to serve the development and meet applicable standards of this
chapter;
            3.   The preliminary plat has been duly reviewed by applicable town
staff;
            4.   The preliminary plat conforms to design requirements and
construction standards as set forth in this chapter;
            5.   The preliminary plat is consistent with the comprehensive
plan; and
            6.   The proposed development represented on the preliminary plat
does not endanger public health, safety, or welfare.
      (4)   Effect of preliminary plat approval.
         (a)   Continuation of the development process. The approval of a
preliminary plat by the Town Board of Trustees shall allow the applicant to
proceed with the development and platting process by submitting construction
plans and a final plat.
         (b)   General approval of layout only. Approval of the preliminary
plat shall be deemed general approval of the subdivision’s layout only, and
shall not constitute approval or acceptance of construction plans or a final
plat.
   (E)   Expiration and extension.
      (1)   Preliminary plat expiration.
         (a)   Two-year validity.
            1.   The approval of a preliminary plat shall remain in effect for
a period of two years following the date of approval, during which period the
applicant shall submit and receive approval for construction plans and final
plat for the land area shown on the preliminary plat.
            2.   If construction plans and a final plat application have not
been approved within the two-year period, the preliminary plat shall expire.
         (b)   Phased developments - partial construction plans and final plat.
If construction plans and a final plat for only a portion of the land area
shown on the preliminary plat are approved by the end of the two-year period,
then the preliminary plat for the remainder of the land not included on the
construction plans or final plat shall expire on such date.
         (c)   Relationship to construction plans. A preliminary plat shall
remain valid for two years or the period of time in which approved construction
plans are valid, whichever is greater.
         (d)   Action on final plat. Should a final plat application be
submitted within the two-year period, but not be acted upon by the Town Board
of Trustees within the two-year period, the preliminary plat shall expire
unless an extension is granted as provided in division (E)(1) of this section.
         (e)   Void if not extended. If the preliminary plat is not extended as
provided in division (E)(1) of this section it shall expire and become null and
void.
      (2)   Preliminary plat extension. A preliminary plat may be extended for
a period not to exceed one year beyond the preliminary plat’s expiration date.
A request for extension shall be submitted to the town in writing at least 30
calendar days prior to expiration of the preliminary plat and shall include
reasons why the preliminary plat should be extended.
      (3)   Preliminary plat extension decision.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator will review the extension request and
shall approve it, approve it with conditions, or deny the extension request
within 30 calendar days following the official filing date of the request.
         (b)   Should the Zoning Administrator fail to act on an extension
request within 30 calendar days, the extension shall be deemed to be approved.
      (4)   Extension considerations. In considering an extension, the Zoning
Administrator shall consider whether the following conditions exist:
         (a)   A final plat has been submitted and/or approved for any portion
of the property shown on the preliminary plat;
         (b)   Construction plans have been submitted and/or approved for any
portion of the property shown on the preliminary plat;
         (c)   Construction is occurring on the subject property;
         (d)   The preliminary plat complies with new ordinances that impact
the health, safety and general welfare of the community; and/or
         (e)   There is a need for a park, school or other public facility or
improvement on the property.
      (5)   Extension conditions.
         (a)   In granting an extension, the Zoning Administrator may impose
such conditions as are needed to ensure that the land will be developed in a
timely fashion and that the public interest is served.
         (b)   Any extension may be predicated upon compliance with new
development regulations and/or the applicant waiving any vested rights.
      (6)   Appeal of the denial of the preliminary plat extension.
         (a)   Appeal of the preliminary plat extension decision.
            1.   The denial of an extension by the Zoning Administrator may be
appealed to the Planning Commission.
            2.   A written request for such appeal shall be received by the
Zoning Administrator within 14 calendar days following the denial.
            3.   The Planning Commission shall hear and consider such an appeal
within 30 calendar days following the zoning official’s receipt of the appeal
request.
         (b)   Appeal of the Commission’s preliminary plat extension decision.
            1.   The denial of an extension by the Planning Commission may be
appealed to the Town Board of Trustees.
            2.   A written request for such appeal shall be received by the
Zoning Administrator within 14 calendar days following the denial.
            3.   The Town Board of Trustees shall hear and consider such an
appeal within 30 calendar days following Zoning Administrator’s receipt of the
appeal request.
            4.   The decision of the Town Board of Trustees is final.
   (F)   Amendments.
      (1)   Minor amendments to preliminary plats.
         (a)   Minor amendments to the design of the subdivision subject to an
approved preliminary plat may be incorporated in an application for approval of
a final plat without the necessity of filing a new application for re-approval
of a preliminary plat.
         (b)   Minor amendments may only include:
            1.   Minor adjustments in street or alley alignments, lengths and
paving details; and
            2.   Minor adjustments to lot lines that do not result in creation
of additional lots or any nonconforming lots, provided that such amendments are
consistent with applicable approved prior applications.
      (2)   Major amendments to preliminary plats. All other proposed changes
(not listed above) to the design of the subdivision subject to an approved
preliminary plat shall be deemed major amendments that require submittal and
approval of a new application for approval of a preliminary plat (including new
fees, new reviews, new official filing date and the like) before approval of
construction plans and/or a final plat.
      (3)   Determination between minor and major amendments to preliminary
plats. The Zoning Administrator shall make a determination of whether proposed
amendments are deemed to be minor or major, thereby requiring new submittal of
a preliminary plat.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.295 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Final plats generally.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of a final plat is to ensure:
         (a)   Consistency with standards. That the proposed subdivision and
development of the land is consistent with all standards of development
pertaining to the adequacy of public facilities;
         (b)   Provide for public improvements. That public improvements to
serve the subdivision or development have been installed and accepted by the
town, or that provisions for such installation has been made;
         (c)   Other requirements and conditions. That all other requirements
and conditions have been satisfied or provided for, to allow the final plat to
be approved recorded; and
         (d)   Meets all other standards of development. Ensure that the
subdivision meets all other standards of development to enable initiation of
site preparation activities for any lot of tract subject to the final plat.
      (2)   Exceptions. A final plat is not required when a minor subdivision
plat is submitted (refer to §
154.296, minor subdivision plat).
      (3)   Ownership. Proof of ownership required.
         (a)   The applicant shall furnish with the application a current title
commitment issued by a title insurance company authorized to do business in
state, a title opinion letter from an attorney licensed to practice in the
state, or some other acceptable proof of ownership, identifying all persons
having an ownership interest in the property subject to the final plat.
         (b)   The final plat shall be signed by each owner, or by the
representative of the owners authorized to sign legal documents for the owners,
effectively denoting that they are consenting to the platting of the property
and to the dedications and covenants that may be contained in the final plat.
      (4)   Prior approved preliminary plat required. The final plat and all
accompanying data shall conform to the approved preliminary plat or as the
preliminary plat may have been subsequently amended.
      (5)   Maintenance bond required.
         (a)   Per requirements established and maintained by the Town
Engineer, the applicant shall furnish maintenance bonds to the town for public
improvements.
         (b)   Maintenance bond value shall be set at 120% of the approved
estimated cost for the to the town for public improvements and will be held for
a minimum of three years. Estimated cost shall be approved by the Town
Engineer.
   (B)   Review and approval action.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall:
         (a)   Initiate review of the final plat and materials submitted;
         (b)   Request written comments from other municipal departments and/or
outside agencies, if deemed necessary; and
         (c)   Upon determination that the application is ready to be acted
upon, schedule the final plat for consideration on the agenda of the next
available Planning Commission meeting.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall:
         (a)   1.   Review the final plat application, the findings of the
Zoning Administrator, and any other information available.
            2.   From all such information, the Planning Commission shall
determine whether the final plat conforms to the regulations of this chapter.
         (b)   Act within 60 calendar days following the application’s official
filing date, unless the applicant submits a waiver of right to 60-day action.
If no decision is rendered by the Planning Commission within the 60-day period
or such longer period as may have been agreed upon, the final plat, as
submitted, shall be deemed to be approved by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Take one of the following actions:
            1.   Approve the final plat;
            2.   Approve the final plat with conditions, which shall mean that
the final plat shall be considered to have been approved once such conditions
are fulfilled; or
            3.   Deny the final plat.
      (3)   The Town Board of Trustees shall:
         (a)   1.   Review the final plat application, the findings of Zoning
Administrator, the decision from the Planning Commission, and any other
information available.
            2.   From all such information, the Town Board of Trustees shall
determine whether the final plat conforms to the regulations of this
subdivision regulations.
         (b)   1.   Act within 60 calendar days following the action of the
Planning Commission on the final plat, unless the applicant submits a waiver of
right to 60-day action.
            2.   If no decision is rendered by the Town Board of Trustees
within the 60-day period or such longer period as may have been agreed upon,
the final plat, as submitted, shall be deemed to be approved.
         (c)   Take one of the following actions:
            1.   Approve the final plat;
            2.   Approve the final plat with conditions, which shall mean that
the final plat shall be considered to have been approved once such conditions
are fulfilled; or
            3.   Deny the final plat.
   (C)   Criteria for final plat approval and recordation. The following
criteria shall be used to determine whether the final plat application shall be
approved, approved with conditions or denied:
      (1)   Prior approved preliminary plat.
         (a)   The final plat conforms to the approved preliminary plat;
         (b)   All conditions imposed at the time of approval of the
preliminary plat, if any, have been satisfied;
         (c)   The construction plans conform to all requirements of §§
154.310 through
154.312, construction plans and procedures, and have been approved by the
building inspector;
         (d)   Where public improvements have been installed, the improvements
conform to the approved construction plans and have been approved by the
building inspector;
         (e)   The final layout of the subdivision or development meets all
standards for adequacy of public facilities contained in this chapter;
         (f)   The final plat conforms to design requirements and construction
standards as set forth in this chapter;
         (g)   The final plat is consistent with the zoning of the property;
and
         (h)   The final plat conforms to all requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Final plat recordation.
         (a)   Prior to approval of the final plat, [missing text?]
         (b)   After approval of the final plat, the Zoning Administrator shall
procure the appropriate signatures on the plat. The Zoning Administrator shall
cause the final plat to be recorded with the appropriate County Clerk upon
receiving the appropriate signatures.
      (3)   Revisions to final plat.
         (1)   Any final plat that has been approved by the Town Board of
Trustees, but not recorded with the County Clerk, which is found to contain
erroneous descriptions or are otherwise defective, may be corrected by the
applicant and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (2)   Once the final plat has been filed and recorded with the County
Clerk, revisions may only be processed and approved as a replat or amending
plat.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.296 MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   Generally. The purpose of a minor subdivision plat is to provide a
limited means for simple land division under certain circumstances, which
result in minimal lot creation. In agreement with the intent of this chapter,
minor subdivision plats are intended to ensure that public facilities are
available and will have sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision.
Additionally, minor subdivision plats are intended to ensure the future growth
and development of the entire town by ensuring new development does not hinder
the provision of public facilities and services to neighboring and nearby
properties.
   (B)   Authority; purpose and intent; eligibility.
      (1)   Authority. The Planning Commission, pursuant to the powers and
jurisdiction vested through 11 O.S. § 45, does hereby exercise the power and
authority to review, approve and disapprove transfer of land hereinafter
referred to as minor subdivision plats.
      (2)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of a minor subdivision plat is to
simplify the subdivision of land under certain circumstances outlined in state
law.
      (3)   Eligibility. An application for approval of a minor subdivision
plat may be filed only in accordance with state law, when all of the following
circumstances apply:
         (a)   Whenever a tract of less than five acres comprising the total
area of a single ownership is to be subdivided into four or fewer lots, or
whenever a proposed subdivision zoned for single-family residential use
contains four or fewer lots, a preliminary and final plat will not be required;
         (b)   The minor subdivision plat is also used for the combination of
two or more previously platted and recorded lots into a single lot; and
         (c)   The classification of a subdivision as a minor subdivision plat
shall not be construed to waive any requirements of these regulations,
including the platting requirements of §
154.290, nor the provisions of any other ordinance or statute pertaining to the
property.
   (C)   Application for approval.
      (1)   Application requirements. Application for minor subdivision plat
approval shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on forms supplied by the
town. The completed application shall be accompanied with the following:
         (a)   A certified survey, prepared by a land surveyor registered in
the state shall be submitted on the proposed minor subdivision plat. The survey
shall show the following:
            1.   Each new lot being formed shall be labeled “Lot 1”, “Lot 2”,
“Lot 3” and/or “Lot 4”;
            2.   The legal description of the original tract of land and each
new lot being created by the subdivision shall be shown;
            3.   The scale, north point and date shall be shown;
            4.   The name and address of the owner of record shall be shown;
            5.   A key map showing the location of the reference to existing
and proposed major streets and government section lines shall be included;
            6.   The location of dedicated streets at the point where they
adjoin and/or are immediately adjacent to the subdivision shall be shown;
            7.   Lot line boundaries with dimensions to the nearest one-
hundredth foot and proposed location and width of streets, alleys and easements
and building setback lines, where applicable, shall be shown; and
            8.   The original signature and seal of the registered land
surveyor preparing the plat of survey, properly notarized, shall be included.
         (b)   A copy of the original deed showing the legal description of the
tract, site or parcel proposed as a short form subdivision shall be submitted.
         (c)   Deeds of tracts, parcels or lots bordering the proposed short
form subdivision shall be submitted if deemed necessary by the director.
         (d)   All instruments for the dedication of required public easements
and rights-of-way shall be submitted. This shall mean, in cases where private
easements are required, that the applicant must submit certified copies of the
instruments filed of record with the County Clerk.
      (2)   Filing fee. A filing fee in the amount set forth in §
154.293 shall accompany the minor subdivision plat application. The filing fee
is non-refundable.
   (D)   Review and approval procedures; plat recordation; revisions.
      (1)   Review. The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed minor
plat subdivision to ensure compliance with all design and improvement
requirements of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator may submit the
application for review and comment to other agencies and/or municipal
departments as deemed necessary.
      (2)   Approval procedure. The Zoning Administrator is delegated
administrative authority to approve minor subdivision plats. The Zoning
Administrator and the Planning and Zoning Commission, as appropriate, shall
decide whether to approve, conditionally approve or deny a minor subdivision
plat application based on the following criteria:
         (a)   The minor subdivision plat is consistent with all zoning
requirements for the property;
         (b)   The final layout of the subdivision or development meets
standards in this chapter;
         (c)   All lots to be created by the plat already are adequately served
by all required municipal services and utilities;
         (d)   The ownership, maintenance, and allowed uses of all designated
easements have been stated on the minor subdivision plat; and
         (e)   The minor subdivision plat does not require the extension of any
municipal facilities to serve any lot within the development.
      (3)   Action.
         (a)   Administrative approval;
         (b)   Administrative denial; and
         (c)   Final approval.
      (4)   Minor subdivision plat recordation. After approval of the minor
subdivision plat, the Zoning Administrator shall procure the required signature
of the Planning and Zoning Commission Chairperson on the plat. The Zoning
Administrator shall then cause the minor subdivision plat to be recorded with
the County Clerk.
      (5)   Revisions to a minor subdivision plat following approval. Revisions
may only be processed and approved as a replat or amending plat, as applicable.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.297 REPLATS.
   (A)   Purpose; applicability.
      (1)   Generally. A replat of all or a portion of a recorded plat may be
approved without vacation of the recorded plat, if the replat meets the
following criteria.
      (2)   Replat criteria.
         (a)   The replat is signed and acknowledged by the owners of the
property being replatted; and
         (b)   The replat does not propose to amend or remove any covenants or
restrictions previously incorporated in the recorded plat
   (B)   Partial replat application. If a replat is submitted for only a
portion of a previously platted subdivision, the replat must reference the
previous subdivision name and recording information and must state on the
replat specific lots that are being changed along with a detailed “Purpose for
Replat” statement.
   (C)   Review and approval process.
      (1)   Review action and approval action.
         (a)   Same as final plat.
         (b)   The review and approval processes for a replat shall be the same
as the review and approval processes for a final plat per §
154.295.
      (2)   Responsible official. The Zoning Administrator shall be the
responsible official.
   (D)   Procedures for recordation following approval; effect.
      (1)   The procedures for recordation of a replat shall be the same as the
procedures for recordation of a final plat, as outlined in §
154.295(C), criteria for final plat approval and recordation.
      (2)   Upon approval and recording of the replat, it is controlling over
the previously recorded plat for the portion replatted.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.298 AMENDING PLATS.
   (A)   Purpose; applicability.
      (1)   The purpose of an amending plat shall be to provide an expeditious
means of making minor revisions to a recorded plat. The amending plat allows
these minor revisions without the need of filing a plat correction certificate.
Furthermore, the amending plat goes beyond the scope of a plat correction
certificate and provides a means to relocate any lot line or to combine lots.
An amending plat does not allow for the creation of new lots and is designed
only to modify existing recorded plats.
      (2)   The procedures for an amending plat shall apply only if the sole
purpose of the amending plat is to achieve one or more of the following
purposes:
         (a)   Correct an error in a course or distance shown on the preceding
plat;
         (b)   Add a course or distance that was omitted on the preceding plat;
         (c)   Correct an error in a real property description shown on the
preceding plat;
         (d)   Indicate monuments set after the death, disability or retirement
from practice of the engineer or surveyor responsible for setting monuments;
         (e)   Show the location or character of a monument that has been
changed in location or character or that is shown incorrectly as to location or
character on the preceding plat;
         (f)   Correct any other type of scrivener or clerical error or
omission previously approved by the municipal authority responsible for
approving plats, including lot numbers, acreage, street names and
identification of adjacent recorded plats;
         (g)   Correct an error in courses and distances of lot lines between
two adjacent lots if:
            1.   Both lot owners join in the application for amending the plat;
            2.   Neither lot is abolished; and
            3.   The amendment does not attempt to remove recorded covenants or
restrictions.
         (h)   Relocate a lot line to eliminate an inadvertent encroachment of
a building or other improvement on a lot line or easement;
         (i)   Relocate one or more lot lines between one or more adjacent lots
if:
            1.   The owners of all those lots join in the application for
amending the plat;
            2.   The amendment does not attempt to remove recorded covenants or
restrictions; and
            3.   The amendment does not increase the number of lots.
         (j)   Make necessary changes to the preceding plat to create four or
fewer lots in the subdivision or a part of the subdivision covered by the
preceding plat if:
            1.   The changes do not affect applicable zoning and other
regulations of the municipality;
            2.   The changes do not attempt to amend or remove any covenants or
restrictions; and
            3.   The area covered by the changes is located in an area that the
Town Board of Trustees, Planning Commission or other appropriate governing body
of the municipality has approved, after a public hearing, as a residential
improvement area.
         (k)   Replat one or more lots fronting on an existing street if:
            1.   The owners of all those lots join in the application for
amending the plat;
            2.   The amendment does not attempt to remove recorded covenants or
restrictions;
            3.   The amendment does not increase the number of lots; and
            4.   The amendment does not create or require the creation of a new
street or make necessary the extension of municipal facilities.
   (B)   Notices; review action.
      (1)   The approval and issuance of an amending plat shall not require
notice, hearing or approval of other lot owners.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall:
         (a)   Initiate review of the plat and materials submitted; and
         (b)   Request written comments from other municipal departments and/or
outside agencies, if deemed necessary.
   (C)   Approval action; decision. The Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether the amending plat meets the regulations of this
chapter;
      (2)   Act within 60 calendar days following the application’s official
filing date, unless the applicant submits a waiver of right to 60-day action;
and
      (3)   Take one of the following actions:
         (a)   Approve the amending plat;
         (b)   Approve the amending plat with conditions; or
         (c)   Defer the amending plat to the Planning Commission for
consideration.
   (D)   Recordation.
      (1)   After approval of the amending plat, the Zoning Administrator shall
procure the appropriate signatures on the plat.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall then cause the amending plat to be
recorded with the appropriate County Clerk.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.299 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   Purpose; criteria.
      (1)   This section is intended to provide a process for the vacation of
plats and subdivisions that are no longer viable and to ensure the vacation
minimizes any adverse impacts on the applicant, surrounding property owners,
and the town.
      (2)   The vacation of the plat shall conform to the following:
         (a)   The comprehensive plan and other adopted plans and policies of
the town;
         (b)   No parcel shall be landlocked as a result of the vacation;
         (c)   Access to any parcel shall not be restricted to the point that
access is unreasonable, economically prohibitive and/or reduces or devalues any
property affected by the proposed vacation;
         (d)   There shall be no adverse impacts on the health, safety and/or
welfare of the general community, and the quality of public facilities and
services provided to any parcel of land shall not be reduced (e.g., police/fire
protection and utility services); and
         (e)   The provision of adequate public facilities and services to any
property shall not be inhibited by the proposed vacation.
   (B)   Plat vacation prior to recordation. After a final plat has been
approved and before it is recorded, the applicant may seek to have the final
plat, or any part of the plat, nullified and vacated by executing a written
instrument declaring the final plat, or any applicable part of it, to be
nullified and vacated, a copy of which shall be attached to said final plat.
      (1)   Review process. The Planning Commission and Town Board of Trustees
shall review such an instrument in the same manner as platting or subdivision.
      (2)   Review and approval. The applicant shall submit the final plat with
the attached written instrument nullifying and vacating said final plat, or
part of it, for review and recommendation by the Planning Commission and for
approval by the Town Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Plat vacation. Upon approval of the nullification and vacation of
the final plat, the applicant shall record the final plat with the attached
written instrument nullifying and vacating it, or part of it, with the County
Clerk. Upon such recording, the instrument will operate to destroy the force
and effect of the final plat approval and to divest all public rights in the
dedications laid out or described in said final plat.
   (C)   Plat vacation after recordation.
      (1)   After a final plat has been recorded, the applicant may seek to
have the final plat, or any part of it, nullified and vacated by executing a
written instrument declaring the final plat to be nullified and vacated and
attaching that instrument to the final plat.
      (2)   The procedures for vacating a recorded final plat shall meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   None of the lots in the subdivision have been sold; and
         (b)   If any lots have been sold, the majority of owners of the lots
in the subdivision and all owners in the area to be vacated must approve the
proposed nullification and vacation in writing, such written approval to be
submitted to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Request for nullification and vacation must be in accordance with
11 O.S. §§ 42-101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND PROCEDURES
§ 154.310 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of construction plans is to ensure that mandatory
public improvements be installed to serve a development in accordance with all
the subdivision ordinance standards, including all standards within the town
code of ordinances.
   (B)   Submitting plans. Plans shall be submitted in accordance with the
requirements provided in the application. Incomplete construction plans shall
not be accepted, and such plans shall be returned to the applicant.
Construction plans shall be prepared by a professional engineer and must be
approved in accordance with this chapter prior to the approval and/or
recordation of the final plat.
      (1)   Review and approval action. The building official shall be the
responsible official for review and approval of construction plans.
      (2)   Decision-making options. The building official shall approve,
approve subject to modifications, or deny construction plans.
   (C)   Criteria for approval.
      (1)   The building official shall approve construction plans if:
         (a)   The plans are consistent with the approved preliminary plat; and
         (b)   The plans conform to the subject property’s zoning standards and
to the standards for adequate public facilities, contained in this chapter and
all other applicable town ordinances.
      (2)   The approval of construction plans shall remain in effect for a
period of six months from the date of approval, or for the duration of
construction of the project, provided that progress towards completion of the
project continues to be demonstrated, unless construction plans are extended in
accordance with the following division (D) of this section.
   (D)   Extension of construction plans. Construction plans may be extended
for a period of six additional months beyond the expiration date. A request
must be made in writing to the building official for such extension prior to
expiration of the plans and shall include reasons why the plans should be
extended.
      (1)   Decision by the building official.
         (a)   The building official will review the extension request, and
shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the extension request within 30
calendar days following the official filing date.
         (b)   Should the building official fail to act on an extension request
within 30 calendar days, the extension shall be deemed to be approved.
      (2)   Extension criteria.
         (a)   The building official shall extend construction plans approval
for a period of six additional months beyond the plans’ expiration date if:
            1.   The construction plans comply with new ordinances that impact
the health, safety and general welfare of the town; and
            2.   Demonstrable progress towards completion has been made to
proceed with construction or required improvements.
      (3)   Conditions. In granting an extension, the building official may
impose such conditions as are needed to ensure that the land will be developed
in a timely fashion and that the public interest is served. Any extension may
be predicated upon compliance with new development regulations and/or the
applicant waiving any vested rights.
   (E)   Construction release. Upon approval of the preliminary plat and the
construction plans, receipt of all documentation (e.g., insurance information,
bonds and the like) and fees required, the building official shall release the
plans for construction if all town requirements pertaining to construction have
been met. Expiration, and possible extension, of the construction release shall
be the same as for the construction plans.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.311 TIMING OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Completion prior to final plat approval and recordation.
      (1)   Completion of all required public improvements, in accordance with
the approved preliminary plat and the approved construction plans, shall occur
prior to final plat approval and recordation.
      (2)   A final plat shall not be accepted for filing, nor shall it be
considered for approval, prior to completion of all required public
improvements. If the development is being platted and constructed in phases,
improvements shall be completed as platted areas are approved and phases are
constructed.
   (B)   Necessary easements.
      (1)   Easements for utility providers.
         (a)   The applicant is responsible for contacting all utility
providers prior to beginning construction, and for securing all necessary
easements prior to final plat approval and recordation.
         (b)   The applicant’s engineer shall provide the building official
with written certification that all necessary easements are secured for the
various utility providers, and such easements shall be shown on the final plat
with the recording information for each.
      (2)   Off-site easements.
         (a)   All necessary off-site easements required for installation of
required off-site public improvements to serve the development shall be
acquired by the applicant prior to approval and recordation of the final plat.
         (b)   Off-site easements shall be conveyed and recorded at the county
by an instrument approved by the town.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.312 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, AND ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Inspection of public improvements.
      (1)   Timing. The building official shall inspect the construction of
improvements while in progress, as well as upon completion.
      (2)   Conformance with construction plans.
         (a)   Construction shall be in accordance with the approved
construction plans.
         (b)   Any significant change in design required during construction
shall be made by the applicant’s engineer and shall be subject to approval by
the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Corrections to improvements. If the Zoning Administrator finds,
upon inspection, that any of the required public improvements have not been
constructed properly and in accordance with the approved construction plans,
then the applicant shall be responsible for completing and/or correcting the
public improvements to being such into compliance.
   (B)   Submission of recorded drawings.
      (1)   Certification. The town shall not accept dedication of required
public improvements until the applicant’s engineer has certified to the town,
through submission of detailed record drawings of the project and filed copies
of any off-site easements that the public improvements have been built in
accordance with the approved construction plans.
      (2)   Acceptance and recordation of public improvements.
         (a)   The town shall not accept improvements until the final plat is
approved by the town and recorded at the county.
         (b)   Each record drawing sheet shall show all changes made in the
construction plans during construction and on each sheet, there shall be a
“record” stamp bearing the signature of the engineer and date.
         (c)   Detailed requirements for such drawings are available from the
building official.
      (3)   Digital files. Digital files of all the record drawings shall be
submitted by the applicant and received by the town.
   (C)   Acceptance or rejection of improvements.
      (1)   Responsible official. The building official shall be responsible
for inspecting all required public improvements shown in the construction plans
and for accepting completed subdivision improvements intended for dedication to
the town.
      (2)   Final inspection. After completion of all improvements, franchise
utilities, grading, and erosion control the building official and other
designated representatives (as applicable) will perform a final inspection
before recommending acceptance of the public improvements.
      (3)   Letter of final acceptance. If all improvements are completed,
inspected, tested (if applicable) and determined by the town to be in
conformance with this chapter, town standards and specifications, and
construction plans, then the building official shall issue a letter of final
acceptance to the applicant, thereby notifying the applicant of the town’s
intended acceptance contingent on the approval of the final plat.
      (4)   Meaning of acceptance. Acceptance of the improvements shall mean
that the applicant has transferred all rights to all the public improvements to
the town for title, use and maintenance.
      (5)   Rejection. The building official shall reject those improvements
that fail to comply with the construction plans and town’s standards and
specifications. The town shall enforce the guarantee provided by the
maintenance bond(s).
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.325 STREETS.
   (A)   Arrangement of streets. The arrangement of streets in a subdivision
shall, except for cul-de-sacs, connect with streets already dedicated in
adjoining subdivisions or provide for future connections to adjoining tracts.
Streets shall be arranged so as to cause no undue hardship on the subdivision
of adjacent unplatted tracts and the Planning Commission and Town Board of
Trustees may require the dedication of street rights-of-way to facilitate the
subdivision of such properties. No development approval shall be granted where
adequate off-site transportation is not available at the time of development
approval or contained within a fully funded capital improvement program or
plan.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   Collector streets shall be provided for the circulation of traffic
through a subdivision and the connection thereof to arterial streets. Adequate
local streets shall be provided to accommodate access within the subdivision.
      (2)   Residential streets shall be so laid out that their use by through
traffic will be discouraged.
      (3)   Street intersections:
         (a)   More than two streets intersecting at a point should be avoided;
         (b)   Where two or more streets converge at one point, or acute
intersection angles occur, setback lines or special rounded or cutoff corners,
or both, may be required to ensure public safety and to facilitate orderly
traffic movements;
         (c)   Streets should intersect at a 90-degree angle, and in no case
should the angle be less than 75 degrees; and
         (d)   Streets should have at least a 50-foot tangent section of
roadway approaching an intersection.
      (4)   Dead end streets shall not be permitted except where same will be
eventually extended in adjacent unplatted areas. Such temporary dead-end
streets shall terminate with a turnaround.
      (5)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused
with the names of existing streets in the town or neighboring communities.
Street names shall the subject to approval by the Planning Commission and Town
Board of Trustees and shall be shown on the final plat.
      (6)   Pedestrian walk rights-of-way not less than ten feet wide shall be
required where deemed necessary to provide access to schools, playgrounds,
shopping centers, transportation and other community facilities.
   (C)   Minimum right-of-way widths. The minimum right-of-way widths of
proposed streets shall be as follows:
 
Type of Street          Right-of-Way Widths
Freeway or expressway   As required by the State Department of Transportation
Primary arterial        100 feet
Secondary arterial      80 feet
Minor industrial street 70 feet
Residential collector   60 feet
Local streets           50 feet
 
   (D)   Access.
      (1)   Each lot shall be provided with access to a public street, approved
private street or highway.
      (2)   (a)   A shared access easement may be required between adjacent
lots fronting on any street section in order to minimize the total number of
access points along those streets and to facilitate traffic flow between lots.
         (b)   Said dedication shall be provided on the final plat of the
subject properties or be filed by separate instrument and filed with the
county.
      (3)   Non-access provisions controlling ingress and egress to streets may
be required by the Planning Commission and Town Board of Trustees to assure
traffic safety and to relieve congestions at intersections.
      (4)   The minimum distance between access points are as follows:
 
Type of Street          Minimum Distance Between Access Points
Freeway or expressway   Limited by the State Department of Transportation
Primary arterial        No limits of access
Secondary arterial      No limits of access
Minor industrial street No limits of access
Residential collector   No limits of access
 
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.326 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Commercial and industrial. Alleys may be required by the Planning
Commission and Town Board of Trustees in commercial and industrial zoned
properties to provide service access, off-street loading and unloading, parking
and access for police and firefighting services. Alleys serving commercial and
industrial zoned properties shall not be less than 30 feet in width of right-
of-way.
   (B)   Residential. Alleys in residentially zoned properties shall be not
less than 20 feet in width of right-of-way.
   (C)   Alignment. Horizontal changes in alignment shall be gradual and at
intersection corners and shall have a radius of 20 feet to permit safe
vehicular turning movements.
   (D)   Dead end. Dead end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but where
unavoidable, shall be provided with an adequate vehicle turn-around at the
terminus as determined by Fire Chief or his or her designees.
   (E)   Obstructions. No obstructions shall be permitted in areas reserved for
alleys.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.327 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Generally. As a critical component to the town’s transportation
system, sidewalks serve to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the
town.
      (1)   Sidewalks provide safe pathways for people to move about the town
and reduce the potential for pedestrian-automobile collisions.
      (2)   Furthermore, sidewalks can serve both residential and
nonresidential uses by increasing connectivity (i.e., points and types of
access to an area) and providing additional means of travel.
   (B)   Sidewalks required.
      (1)   Requirement.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of all streets,
within residential and commercial districts, unless the Planning Commission
waives or modifies this requirement, including allowing the developer to
contribute funds-in-lieu of construction.
         (b)   Within all residential developments, sidewalks shall be a
minimum of four feet in width.
         (c)   The design and installation of all sidewalks shall meet all
state and federal requirements, including, but not limited to, the Americans
with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
         (d)   All subdivisions, site developments, or sections thereof shall
have installed in them sidewalks and/or trails to serve each lot or parcel
therein.
      (2)   Responsibility. The developer shall install sidewalks within the
development along street rights-of-way and along the existing streets fronting
the development
      (3)   Construction materials. Sidewalks shall be concrete, shall conform
to the applicable standards contained in these regulations and shall be a
minimum of 48 inches wide and a minimum of four inches thick with handicapped
access at all intersections. Sidewalks shall normally be separated from the
edge of the street by a grassy strip 24 inches wide. All non-paved right-of-way
shall be either sodded or seeded.
      (4)   Location. Sidewalks and trails shall be located in the right-of-way
of the street and shall extend across the entire dimension of each lot or
parcel side adjacent to a public street.
      (5)   Timing of completion. All required sidewalks and trail dedications
shall be completed prior to occupancy and before any public utility connection
occurs.
      (6)   Sidewalk fee in lieu of construction.
         (a)   It is the desire of the town to have required sidewalks built at
the time of and congruent with development. However, there may be circumstances
regarding safety, economic waste and geographical features that preclude such
construction.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator has the authority to approve
construction exemptions and collect a fee in lieu of 115% of the estimated
total construction cost (i.e., labor included).
         (c)   In no instance will a private or public entity not build or pay
a fee in lieu of sidewalk or trail construction.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.328 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility easements. Where alleys are not provided, the Planning
Commission and Town Board of Trustees may require easements of a minimum width
of ten feet along each rear lot line and along each side lot line where
necessary for use by public and private utilities.
   (B)   Drainage easements. The Planning Commission and Town Board of Trustees
may require drainage easements as recommended by the town. All drainage
easements for facilities shall be of such dimensions so as to allow equipment
access for construction and maintenance of the facility.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.329 BLOCKS.
   (A)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard for the following:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated;
      (2)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
      (3)   Need for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic; and
      (4)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (B)   Blocks for residential use shall not be longer than 1,800 feet or less
than 500 feet measured along the centerline of the block. Wherever practical,
blocks along primary arterial and secondary arterial streets shall be not less
than 1,000 feet.
   (C)   (1)   When a block exceeds 600 feet in length, the Planning Commission
may require a dedicated easement not less than 15 feet in width and a paved
crosswalk not less than four feet in width to provide pedestrian access across
the block.
      (2)   Such pedestrian walkways or crosswalks may be required by the
Planning Commission if deemed essential to provide circulation or access to
schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation or other community
facilities.
   (D)   Blocks used for residential purposes shall be of sufficient width to
allow for two tiers of lots of appropriate depth but shall not be less than 220
feet in width except where otherwise required to separate residential
development from through traffic. Other exceptions to this prescribed block
width shall be permitted for blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads or
waterways. Such exceptions are allowed provided other applicable provisions of
this chapter are met.
   (E)   Blocks intended for business and industrial use shall be of a width
and depth suitable for the intended use, with due allowance for off-street
parking and loading facilities.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.330 LOTS.
   (A)   Generally. The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no
foreseeable difficulties for reasons of topography or other conditions in
securing a building permit. All lots shall be arranged to comply with the
comprehensive plan, the zoning regulations, all drainage ordinances and
building codes and all other ordinances of the town, and to provide access from
an approach street.
   (B)   Dimensions.
      (1)   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of the
zoning regulations.
      (2)   Additional requirements shall be as follows.
         (a)   Lots shall have a width, depth and area of not less than that
required by the zoning regulations. Lots, tracts or parcels created for a
particular commercial or industrial use shall have sufficient area and
dimensions to provide for off-street parking and loading facilities as required
by the zoning regulations for the type of use and development proposed.
         (b)   Corner lots shall have an extra width that is adequate to permit
building setbacks from side streets and front streets.
         (c)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines or
radial to curving street lines.
         (d)   Corner lot lines shall be cut with a chord to provide a sight
triangle with legs of 25 feet from the point of intersection of the property
lines along both property lines. The triangle shall be dedicated to the town
and be included in the street right-of-way easement.
   (C)   Lots under one ownership; lots for commercial and industrial uses.
      (1)   Where a block is to be developed and retained under single
ownership, it is not required that the block be subdivided into lots; however,
the block must meet all requirements of this chapter and other applicable
regulations for lots and blocks, including lot sizes and dimensions.
      (2)   All lots proposed for commercial or industrial use shall abut upon
a dedicated street and shall be of appropriate size and arrangement to provide
for adequate off-street parking and loading facilities based on the intended
use.
      (3)   No individual parcel shall be created for a particular commercial
or industrial use that has an area, width or depth that is less than is
required for the permitted use under the applicable provisions of the zoning
regulations.
   (D)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots.
      (1)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided, except
where they are needed to provide for the separation of residential development
from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
orientation.
      (2)   In all cases, a sight-proof screening shall be provided and shall
not be less than six feet in height. The sight-proof screening shall be
provided along the rear portion of the lots abutting such a traffic artery.
      (3)   There shall be no right of access to the rear or side portion of
any lot abutting such traffic artery.
   (E)   Street access. Low or medium density residential lots shall not derive
access from a major street. Lots facing collector streets should be minimized
to the fullest extent possible. Where a lot borders a collector street and a
local street, access shall be gained from the local street only. If lots have
access on local streets, the Planning Commission shall require on the face of
the final plat a note limiting access for lots that back or side onto a
collector, arterial or other major street. Where driveway access from a major
or arterial street may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the Planning
Commission may require that such lots be served by a combined access drive in
order to limit possible traffic hazards. Driveways should be designed and
arranged so that vehicles avoid backing into major or arterial streets. It is
encouraged that driveways should be designed and arranged so that vehicles
avoid backing into collector streets.
   (F)   Drainage. Lots shall be laid out so that drainage flows away from all
buildings. Individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general storm
drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid
concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent lots.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.331 PUBLIC AREAS AND OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide the amount of land to be
dedicated for parks and open space.
      (2)   Parks and open space are essential in providing for the public
welfare of the community.
      (3)   These areas benefit residents by providing recreational
opportunities and are considered elements that contribute to the quality of
life found in the community.
      (4)   The amount of land for parks and open space and its distribution
contributes to citizens’ quality of life.
   (B)   Applicability. It shall be a condition of a final plat of all
residential subdivisions having a dwelling unit density of greater than one
unit per net acre, that the applicant, developer or owner will be required to
make to and at the discretion of the Town Board of Trustees either:
      (1)   Land donation; or
      (2)   Cash in lieu of land donation.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.332 BUILDING AND SETBACK LINES.
   (A)   Building lines shall be shown on all plats intended for residential
use of any character, as follows:
      (1)   In residential districts, a front yard setback shall be provided on
every lot. The depth of such front yard setback line shall be at least 25 feet.
      (2)   On any corner lot to be used for residential purposes, the setback
line on the intersecting street shall be located not less than 15 feet from the
right of way line, in case such lot is back to back with another lot, and 25
feet in every other case; and
      (3)   Restrictions shall be made requiring that all buildings to be used
for residential purposes be set back from side lot lines at least five feet on
all interior side lot lines.
   (B)   Where crosswalks are provided or required, a side yard building line
shall be provided not less than ten feet back of a crosswalk right-of-way line
on the side of a lot abutting a midblock crosswalk.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter or fails to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof, shall be deemed guilty of an offense, or misdemeanor, and
shall, upon conviction, be liable for a fine not to exceed the sum as set forth
in the Appendix of Fines and Fees, excluding costs, and each day such
violations shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense, or
misdemeanor, and shall be punished as such.
      (2)   The owner, or owners, of any building or premises or part thereof
where anything in violation of this chapter shall exist, and any architect,
builder, contractor, individual, person, firm or corporation employed in
connection therewith and who may assist in the commission of any such violation
shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense, and upon conviction, shall be
fined as herein provided.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
154.195 through
154.205 or fails to comply with any requirement hereof shall upon conviction be
subject to penalty under §
150.999(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 382, passed 7-8-2021)
APPENDIX OF FINES AND FEES
   Division
      
A.   TITLE I CHARGE SCHEDULE
      
B.   TITLE III CHARGE SCHEDULE
      
C.   TITLE V CHARGE SCHEDULE
      
D.   TITLE VII CHARGE SCHEDULE
      
E.   TITLE IX CHARGE SCHEDULE
      
F.   TITLE XI CHARGE SCHEDULE
      
G.   TITLE XII CHARGE SCHEDULE
      
H.   TITLE XV CHARGE SCHEDULE
DIVISION A: TITLE I CHARGE SCHEDULE
 
Fines and Fees Found in Title I
Section Charge/Service              Fee Amount
Chapter 10
§      General penalty; offense or Not to exceed $500 (excluding costs),
10.99   misdemeanor                 per day
   
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
DIVISION B: TITLE III CHARGE SCHEDULE
Fines and Fees Found in Title III
Section Charge/Service Fee Amount
                       Maximum Fine (plus $70) With Fees ($7,000)
Fines and Fees Found in Title III
Section Charge/Service                                                                      Fee Amount
                                                                                            Maximum With
                                                                                            Fine    Fees
                                                                                            (plus   ($7,000)
                                                                                            $70)
Chapter 36
§         Court costs; entered conviction (division (A))                                $30
36.14
           CLEET penalty assessment (division (B))                                       $10
           Forensic science improvement assessment fee                                   $5
           Police Department continuing education fee                                    $10   
§      Various fines
36.15
        Affixing improper license plate                                                   $200    $270
        AFIS                                                                              $10
        Allowing a passenger to ride outside the passenger compartment of the vehicle     $132    $202
        Allowing unlicensed driver                                                        $300    $370
        Assault on peace officer                                                          $750    $790
        Careless driving                                                                  $300    $370
        Carrying illegal firearm                                                          $500    $540
        Changing lanes unsafely                                                           $132    $202
        CLEET                                                                             $10
        Concealing stolen property                                                        $750    $790
        Contributing to delinquency of a minor                                            $500    $540
        Court cost                                                                        $30
        Destroying or defacing private property                                           $500    $540
        Destroying or defacing public property                                            $500    $540
        Disobeying a lawful order                                                         $500    $540
        Distributing CDS                                                                  $1,000  $1,000
        Disturbing the peace                                                              $300    $340
        Driving in a manner not reasonable and proper                                     $200    $270
        Driving left of center
           1.   Unauthorized driving left of center on (grades) (curves) (view
          obstructed)
           2.   Unauthorized driving left of center within 100 feet of (intersection)
          (railroad crossing)
           3.   Unauthorized driving left of center within 100 feet of any (tunnel)
          (bridge) (viaduct) when view obstructed
           4.   On left side of road in a marked zone
           5.   Unauthorized driving left of center in divided four-lane roadway    $132    $181
        Driving under suspension (revocation)                                             $500    $549
        Driving under suspension (revocation) 2nd or subsequent                           $750    $799
        Driving wrong way on one-way road                                                 $132    $181
        Elude or attempts to elude                                                        $1,000  $1,049
        Expired tag                                                                       $200    $249
        Failure to appear                                                                 $750    $780
        Failure to devote full time and attention                                         $200    $249
        Failure to obey a lawful traffic control (sign) (signal) (device)                 $132    $181
        Failure to present ID on demand                                                   $100    $129
        Failure to secure load                                                            $105    $200
        Failure to stop at stop sign                                                      $132    $181
        Failure to stop for school bus (loading) (unloading) children                     $132    $181
        Failure to stop/improper stop at a railroad grade crossing                        $132    $181
        Failure to use child passenger restraint system                                   $25     $25
        Failure to use turn signal                                                        $132    $181
        Failure to yield to emergency vehicle                                             $200    $249
        Forensic                                                                          $10
        Impeding the normal and reasonable flow of traffic                                $132    $181
        Impeding traffic                                                                  $132    $181
        Improper equipment                                                                $25     $74
        Improper movement from a direct course (to enter private drive) (driveway)        $132    $181
        Improper negotiation of a railroad-highway grade crossing by a commercial motor   $132    $181
          vehicle
        Improper passing
           1.   Failure to give way to right when being passed
           2.   Improper passing on the right
           3.   Passing without sufficient clearance                                $132    $181
        Improperly crossing center driving section                                        $132    $181
        Improperly driving (onto) (off) controlled access roadway                         $132    $181
        Leaving the scene of accident                                                     $300    $349
        Littering                                                                         $300    $330
        Minor in possession of alcohol or tobacco                                         $300    $330
        No driver’s license                                                             $300    $349
        No driver’s license on person                                                   $20     $90
        No insurance                                                                      $115    $164
        No seat belt                                                                      $20     $20
        No seat belt (child)                                                              $25     $25
        Officer education                                                                 $10
        Parking illegally                                                                 $25     $50
        Parking in handicapped zone                                                       $200    $230
        Possession of CDS                                                                 $1,000  $1,000
        Possession of marijuana                                                           $750    $780
        Possession of paraphernalia                                                       $500    $530
        Providing false information to peace officer                                      $300    $330
        Public intoxication                                                               $250    $280
        Public intoxication drugs                                                         $300    $330
        Public nuisance                                                                   $200    $230
        Reckless driving                                                                  $300    $349
        Resisting arrest                                                                  $750    $780
        Speeding
           1 to 10 mph over                                                            $80     $150
           11 to 15 mph over                                                           $147    $196
           16 to 20 mph over                                                           $162    $211
           21 to 25 mph over                                                           $202    $251
           26 to 30 mph over                                                           $262    $311
           31 to 35 mph over                                                           $282    $331
           36 mph and over                                                             $332    $381
        Speeding in a construction or maintenance zone
           1 to 10 mph over                                                            $294    $392
           11 to 15 mph over                                                           $334    $432
           16 to 20 mph over                                                           $394    $492
           21 to 25 mph over                                                           $554    $652
           26 to 30 mph over                                                           $749    $892
        Speeding in a construction or maintenance zone                                       
           31 to 35 mph over                                                           $874    $972
           36 mph and over                                                             $1,074  $1,172
        Speeding in school zone                                                           $400    $498
        Transporting open container (alcohol)                                             $200    $249
        Violation of license restriction                                                  $132    $181
        Violation of self-defense act                                                     $500    $530
        Window tint                                                                       $90
§      Imprisonment; cost of incarcerated housing                                          $ 53.78 per 24-
36.22                                                                                       hour period
 
(Ord. 300, passed 10-5-2000; Ord. 304, passed 11-8-2001; Ord. 333, passed 10-8-
2009; Ord. 339, passed 7-8-2010; Ord. 340, passed 7-8-2010; Ord. 361, passed 6-
9-2016)
DIVISION C: TITLE V CHARGE SCHEDULE
Fines and Fees Found in Title V
Section Charge/Service Fee Amount
Fines and Fees Found in Title V
Section Charge/Service                                                                  Fee
                                                                                        Amount
Chapter 51
 §     Water service application deposit                                                
 51.03
        Food service                                                                    $100
        Large industrial users                                                          $100
         
        Normal industrial and commercial users                                          $55
         
        Single-family owners                                                            $55
        Single-family renters                                                           $55
                                                                                        $55,
                                                                                        times
                                                                                        the
                                                                                        number
        Trailer/mobile home parks                                                       of
                                                                                        spaces
                                                                                        provided
                                                                                        in said
                                                                                        parks
 §     Reconnection of water service; turn-on charge
 51.06
        Cut-off due to failure to pay water bill                                        $35
        Cut-off due to failure to pay water bill (after hours)                          $50
 §     Damaged or destroyed AMR water meter parts
 51.08
           Black cap                                                                 $25
           Labor to replace damaged/destroyed parts                                  $45 per
                                                                                        hour
           Lid                                                                       $30
           Six foot TPL wire                                                         $25
           Transmitters:
              Smart point single                                                  $175
              Smart point double                                                  $175
           Water meters:
              3/4”                                                              $170
              1”                                                                $245
              1 1/2”                                                            $650
              2”                                                                $850
 §     Water well permit                                                               $50
 51.19
Chapter 52
 §     Sewer main or lateral tapping fee                                               $35 per
 52.04                                                                                  inch
 §     Reconnection of sewer service; turn-on charge                                   $20
 52.07
 §     Private sewage permit and inspection fee                                        $10
 52.10
 §     Sewer user discharge fee
 52.11
           Portable toilets (up to 3,000 gallons)                                    $250 per
                                                                                        truck
           Recreational vehicles or similar vehicles (5 free dumps per calender year $25 per
        for current HUA residential customers)                                          vehicle
           Septic tank trucks
                                                                                        $0.02
              In town businesses                                                  per
                                                                                        gallons
                                                                                        $0.05
              Out of town businesses                                              per
                                                                                        gallon
           Others
                                                                                        $0.02
              In town businesses                                                  per
                                                                                        gallons
                                                                                        $0.05
              Out of town businesses                                              per
                                                                                        gallon
                                                                                        Minimum
 §     Town hall key, 24-hour access                                                   $1,000
 52.11                                                                                  per
                                                                                        month
 §     Penalties
 52.99
           Division (D) fine (§                                                     $1,000
        52.11(C) and (D))
           Division (E) fine (§                                                     $500
        52.16)
 
(Ord. 264, passed 7-8-1992; Ord. 277, passed 7-7-1994; Ord. 278, passed 1-5-
1995; Ord. 337, passed 6-10-2010; Ord. 385, passed 12-14-2023; Ord. 387, passed
11-30-2023; Ord. 388, passed 1-11-2024)
DIVISION D: TITLE VII CHARGE SCHEDULE
 
Fines and Fees Found in Title VII
Section    Charge/Service                           Fee Amount
Chapter 78
§         Golf carts and utility vehicle operation $25
78.30      permit
Chapter 80
Schd. I(C) Penalty (division C); failure to comply  $200 (or $210 with CLEET)
           with weight restrictions
 
(Ord. 350, passed 12-5-2013; Ord. 373, passed 8-13-2018)
DIVISION E: TITLE IX CHARGE SCHEDULE
Fines and Fees Found in Title IX
Section Charge/Service Fee Amount
Fines and Fees Found in Title IX
Section Charge/Service                                                Fee
                                                                      Amount
Chapter 94
 §     Impounded dogs                                                 
 94.02
           Redemption fee                                          $20
           Per diem fee                                            $10
 §     Tax                                                            
 94.12
           Every male or spayed female dog more than six months of $1 per
        age                                                           year
           Every unspayed female dog more than six months of age   $2 per
                                                                      year
 §     Lost dog tags                                                 $1
 94.13
Chapter 95
 §     Swimming pool construction permit                             $25
 95.01
 
(Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995; Ord. 327, passed 8-7-2008; Ord. 335, passed 10-8-
2009; Ord. 351, passed 7-10-2014)
DIVISION F: TITLE XI CHARGE SCHEDULE
Fines and Fees Found in Title XI
Section Charge/Service Fee Amount
Fines and Fees Found in Title XI
Section Charge/Service                                                     Fee
                                                                           Amount
Chapter 110
 §     Duplicate business license                                         $5
 110.06
Chapter 111
 §     Verification and certification fee                                 $30
 111.08
Chapter 112
 §     Violation of division (A)
 112.17
           First offense                                                $100
           Second or subsequent offense within a one-year period of the $200
        first
 §                                                                        $50
 112.18 Violation of division (A); improper signage                        per
                                                                           day
 §     Violation; unlawful sale in improper container                     $200
 112.22
 §     Violation; public access to tobacco                                $200
 112.23
 §     Violation; use of persons under 18 years of age to test compliance $100
 112.24
 §     Violation of division (A); tobacco products to minors              $100
 112.25
Chapter 113
 §     Solicitation license tax
 113.02
          Per day                                                      $10
          Per week                                                     $40
          Per month                                                    $100
          Per year                                                     $200
Chapter 114
 §                                                                        $20
 114.02 Pool and billiard hall license fee                                 per
                                                                           table
Chapter 116
                                                                           $50
 §                                                                        per
 116.01 Taxicab license tax                                                year,
                                                                           per
                                                                           taxi
Chapter 117
 §     Garage/yard sale permit fee                                        $0
 117.02
Chapter 118
 §     Marijuana business license fee                                     $1,500
 118.02
 §     Penalty; violation of §§                                         §
 118.99 118.01 through                                                     1,500
        118.06
Chapter 119
 §     Mobile food vendor operation fee
 119.07
           Daily, or                                                    $50,
                                                                           or
           Annual                                                       $250
 §     Penalty; violation of Chapter 119                                  $500
 119.99
 
(Ord. 278, passed 1-5-1995; Ord. 334, passed 10-8-2009; Ord. 358, passed 7-9-
2015; Ord. 380, passed 2-13-2020; Ord. 385, passed - -2023)
DIVISION G: TITLE XIII CHARGE SCHEDULE
[Reserved]
DIVISION H: TITLE XV CHARGE SCHEDULE
Fines and Fees Found in Title XV
Section Charge/Service Fee Amount
Fines and Fees Found in Title XV
Section  Charge/Service                                                            Fee
                                                                                   Amount
Chapter 151
 §      Public way alteration permits
 151.21
           Asphalt, oil or blacktop street                                     $50
           Concrete street                                                     $50
           Dirt or gravel street                                               $50
Chapter 152
 §      Penalty; violation of division (A)                                        $500
 152.999
Chapter 153
 §      Rezoning and master development plan applications
 153.14
                                                                                   $50
            For all proposed R-1A, R-T, R-3 and R-M, underlying zoning district plus
         acreage                                                                   $2 per
                                                                                   acre
                                                                                   $50
            For all other proposed underlying zoning district acreage           plus
                                                                                   $2 per
                                                                                   acre
 §      Preliminary plat and preliminary site development plan approval           $50
 153.15  application
 §      Final site development plan and final plat approval filling fee           $50
 153.16
Chapter 154
 §      Penalty; violation of division (B)(1)                                     $500
 154.999
 
(Ord. 364, passed 3-13-2017; Ord. 381, passed 8-12-2021)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Code Section Code Section
O.S. Code Section                          Code Section
O.S. § 17-217                             34.01
O.S. § 17-218                             34.01
O.S. § 17-301                             34.01
O.S. § 37A-1-103                          111.51
O.S. §§ 68-1401 et seq.                  35.031
O.S. §§ 1680 et seq.                     150.056
11 O.S. § 8-103                           30.05
11 O.S. § 8-105                           31.002
11 O.S. § 8-113                           34.05
11 O.S. § 9-109                           30.06
11 O.S. §§ 11-43-101 et seq.             154.001
11 O.S. § 11-44-101                       154.036
11 O.S. § 11-44-102                       154.036
11 O.S. §§ 11-44-104 et seq.             154.036
11 O.S. § 11-44-106                       154.036
11 O.S. §§ 11-44-107 et seq.             154.036
11 O.S. §§ 11-44-110 et seq.             154.036
11 O.S. § 11-45-101                       154.035
11 O.S. § 11-45-102                       154.035
11 O.S. § 11-45-103                       154.035
11 O.S. § 11-45-104                       154.035
11 O.S. § 12-101                          34.06
11 O.S. § 12-104                          30.02
11 O.S. § 16-112                          35.004
11 O.S. § 17-102                          34.05
11 O.S. § 17-102(D)                       34.25
11 O.S. §§ 17-201—17-216               34.01
11 O.S. § 17-207                          34.02
11 O.S. § 17-212                          34.02
                                           36.09;
11 O.S. § 22-111                          92.01;
                                           93.01
11 O.S. § 22-111(A)                       92.01
11 O.S. § 22-111(A)(7)                    92.01
11 O.S. § 22-115                          94.02
11 O.S. § 27-101                          36.01
11 O.S. § 27-123                          36.24
11 O.S. §§ 31-101 et seq.                97.01
11 O.S. § 39-103.1                        111.02
11 O.S. §§ 42-101 et seq.                154.299
11 O.S. §§ 42-102 et seq.                154.035
11 O.S. § 45                              154.296
11 O.S. §§ 47-113 et seq.                154.290
11 O.S. § 49-100.1 et seq.                33.08
21 O.S.                                    130.01
22 O.S. § 1115.1                          36.20
22 O.S. Section VIII, Chapter 18, Appendix 36.22
25 O.S. § 106                             111.02
25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq.                   30.06
25 O.S. § 1502.2                          96.05
25 O.S. § 1502.3                          96.05
27A O.S. §§ 2-10-101 et seq.             50.10
37 O.S. § 37A-6-101                       131.04
37 O.S. § 163.2                           111.51
37 O.S. § 163.27                          111.02
37 O.S. § 506                             111.26
37A O.S.                                   111.03;
                                           111.04
37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.                111.01;
                                           111.25
43A O.S. § 3-403                          154.020
O.S. Title 47                              70.01
47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.                70.08
50 O.S. § 1                               110.04
50 O.S. § 2                               110.04
50 O.S. § 12                              91.07
50 O.S. § 14                              91.07
50 O.S. § 15                              91.07
50 O.S. § 16                              91.05;
                                           91.08
50 O.S. § 17                              91.09
57 O.S.                                    154.020
59 O.S. §§ 1805.1 et seq.                150.082
60 O.S.                                    154.020
60 O.S. § 176                             34.21
60 O.S. § 176—180                       34.27
60 O.S. § 176(g)                          34.21
61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq.                   34.21
62 O.S. § 310.1A                          34.05
62 O.S. § 310.1B                          34.05
62 O.S. § 348.1                           34.03
62 O.S. § 517.3                           34.03
63 O.S. § 1-229.11                        112.18;
                                           App. F
63 O.S. §§ 1-1902 et seq.                154.020
63 O.S. § 1-2509                          33.35
63 O.S. § 1-2513                          33.35
63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq.                 130.02
63 O.S. § 421A                            154.020
68 O.S. § 205                             35.082
68 O.S. § 217                             35.013
68 O.S. § 220                             35.013
68 O.S. § 227                             35.014
68 O.S. § 301                             112.24;
                                           App. F
68 O.S. At. 13 §§ 1301—1354.6          35.065
68 O.S. § 1350                            35.065
68 O.S. §§ 1352 et seq.                  35.002
68 O.S. §§ 2601—2605                   35.045
74 O.S. §§ 85.1 et seq.                  34.06
75 O.S. §§ 309—317                     36.07
82 O.S. §§ 1601—1620                   152.041
82 O.S. §§ 1601—1620.1                 152.001
                                           
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code Code Section
1-1-1      10.01
1-1-2      10.02
1-1-3      10.03
1-1-4      10.04
1-1-5      10.05
1-2-1      10.35
1-2-2      10.36
1-2-3      10.37
1-2-4      10.38
1-3-1      10.20
1-3-2      10.21
1-3-3      10.22
1-3-4      10.23
1-4-1      10.99;
           App. A
1-4-2      10.50
1-4-3      10.51
1-6-1      30.01
1-6-3      30.03
1-6-4      30.04
1-6-5      30.05
1-6-6      30.06
1-6-7      30.07
1-6-8      30.08
1-7-1      31.001
1-7-2      31.002
1-7-3      31.003
1-7-4      31.004
1-7-5      31.005
1-7-6      31.006
1-7A-1     31.020
1-7A-2     31.021
1-7A-3     31.022
1-7A-4     31.023
1-7B-1     31.035
1-7B-2     31.036
1-7B-3     31.037
1-7C-1     31.050
1-7C-2     31.051
1-7D-1     31.065
1-7D-2     31.066
1-7D-3     31.067
1-7D-4     31.068
1-7D-5     31.069
1-7D-6     31.070
1-7D-7     31.071
1-7D-8     31.072
1-7E-1     31.085
1-7E-2     31.086
1-7F-1     31.100
1-9-1      36.01
1-9-2      36.02
1-9-3      36.03
1-9-4      36.04
1-9-5      36.05
1-9-6      36.06
1-9-7      36.07
1-9-8      36.08
1-9-9      36.09
1-9-10     36.10
1-9-11     36.11
1-9-12     36.12
1-9-13     36.13
1-9-14     36.14;
           App. B
1-9-15     36.15;
           App. B
1-9-17     36.16
1-9-18     36.17
1-9-19     36.18
1-9-20     36.19
1-9-21     36.20
1-9-22     36.21
1-9-23     36.22;
           App. B
1-9-24     36.23
1-9-25     36.24
2-1-1      34.01
2-1-2      34.02
2-1-3      34.03
2-1-4      34.04
2-1-5      34.05
2-1-6      34.06
2-1-7      34.07
2-2A-1     35.001
2-2A-2     35.002
2-2A-3     35.003
2-2A-4     35.004
2-2A-5     35.005
2-2A-6     35.006
2-2A-7     35.007
2-2A-8     35.008
2-2A-9     35.009
2-2A-10    35.010
2-2A-11    35.011
2-2A-12    35.012
2-2A-13    35.013
2-2A-14    35.014
2-2A-15    35.015
2-2A-16    35.016
2-2A-17    35.017
2-2A-18    35.018
2-2B-1     35.030
2-2B-2     35.031
2-2C-1     35.045
2-2C-2     35.046
2-2C-3     35.047
2-2C-4     35.048
2-2C-5     35.049
2-4-1      34.20
2-4-2      34.21
2-4-3      34.22
2-4-4      34.23
2-4-5      34.24
2-4-6      34.25
2-4-7      34.26
2-4-8      34.27
3-1-1      110.01
3-1-2      110.02
3-1-3      110.03
3-1-4      110.04
3-1-5      110.05
3-1-6      110.06;
           App. F
3-1-7      110.99
3-2A-1     111.01
3-2A-3     111.06
3-2A-4     111.07
3-2A-5     111.08;
           App. F
3-2A-6     111.09
3-2A-7     111.10
3-2A-8     111.11
3-2A-9     111.99
3-2B-1     111.25
3-2B-2     111.26
3-2B-3     111.27
3-2B-4     111.28
3-2B-5     111.29
3-2B-6     111.30
3-2B-7     111.31
3-2B-8     111.32
3-2B-9     111.33
3-2B-10    111.34
3-2B-11    111.35
3-2B-12    111.99
3-2C-1     111.50
3-2C-2     111.51
3-2C-3     111.52
3-2C-4     111.53
3-2C-5     111.54;
           111.99
3-2C-6     111.99
3-2D-1     111.65
3-2D-2     111.66
3-2D-3     111.67
3-2D-4     111.68
3-3-1      112.01
3-3-2      112.02
3-3-3      112.03
3-3-4      112.99
3-4-1      113.01
3-4-2      113.02;
           App. F
3-4-3      113.03
3-4-4      113.04
3-4-5      113.05
3-4-6      113.06
3-4-7      113.99
3-5-1      114.01
3-5-2      114.02; App. F
3-5-3      114.03
3-5-4      114.99
3-6-1      115.01
3-6-2      115.02
3-6-3      115.03
3-6-4      115.99
3-7-1      116.01;
           App. F
3-7-2      116.99
4-1-1      90.01
4-2-1      91.01
4-2-2      91.02
4-2-3      91.03
4-2-4      91.04
4-2-5      91.05
4-2-6      91.06
4-2-7      91.07
4-2-8      91.08
4-2-9      91.09
4-2-10     91.10
4-2-11     91.11
4-2-12     91.99
4-3-1      92.01
4-3-2      92.02
4-3-3      92.03
4-3-4      92.04
4-3-5      92.05
4-3-6      92.06
4-3-7      92.07
4-3-8      92.08
4-3-9      92.09
4-3-10     92.10
4-3-11     92.11
4-3-12     92.99
4-4-1      93.01
4-5-1      95.01;
           App. E
4-5-2      95.02
4-5-3      95.99
5-1-1      32.01
5-1-2      32.02
5-1-3      32.03
5-2-1      33.01
5-2-2      33.02
5-2-3      33.03
5-2-4      33.04
5-2-5      33.05
5-2-6      33.06
5-2-7      33.07
5-2-8      33.08
5-2-9      33.09
5-2-10     33.10
5-2-11     33.11
5-2-12     33.12
5-2-13     33.13
5-2-14     33.14
5-2-15     33.15
5-2-16     33.16
5-2-17     33.17
5-2-18     33.18
5-2-19     33.19
5-2-20     33.20
5-3-1      33.35
5-3-2      33.36
5-3-3      33.37
5-4-1      37.01
5-4-2      37.02
5-4-3      37.03
5-4-4      37.04
5-4-5      37.05
5-5-1      94.01
5-5-2      94.02;
           App. E
5-5-3      94.03
5-5-4      94.04
5-5-5      94.06
5-5-6      94.07
5-5-7      94.08
5-5-8      94.09
5-5-9      94.10
5-5-10     94.11
5-5-11     94.12;
           App. E
5-5-12     94.13;
           App. E
5-5-13     94.14
5-5-14     94.15
5-5-15     94.99
5-6-1      130.01
5-6-2      130.02
5-6-3      130.03
5-6-4      130.04
5-6-5      130.99
5-6A-1     131.01
5-6A-3     131.02
5-6A-4     131.03
5-6A-6     131.04
5-6B-1     132.01
5-6B-2     132.02
5-6B-3     132.03
5-6B-4     132.04
5-6B-5     132.05
5-6B-6     132.06
5-6B-7     132.07
5-6C-1     133.01
5-6C-2     133.02
5-6C-3     133.03
5-6C-4     133.04
5-6C-5     133.05
5-6C-6     133.06
5-6D-1     134.01
5-6D-2     134.02
5-6D-3     134.03
5-6D-4     134.04
5-6D-5     134.05
5-6D-6     134.06
5-6D-7     134.07
5-6E-1     135.01
5-6E-2     135.02
5-6E-3     135.03
5-6E-4     135.04
5-6E-5     135.05
5-6E-6     135.06
5-6E-7     135.07
5-6E-8     135.08
5-7-1      32.15
5-7-2      32.16
5-7-3      32.17
5-7-4      32.18
5-8-1      96.01
5-8-2      96.02
5-8-3      96.03
5-8-4      96.04
5-8-5      96.05
5-8-6      96.06
5-8-7      96.99
6-1-1      70.20
6-2-1      70.01
6-2-2      70.02
6-2-3      70.03
6-2-4      70.04
6-2-5      70.05
6-2-6      70.06
6-2-7      70.07
6-2-8      70.08
6-3-1      71.01
6-3-2      71.02
6-3-3      71.03
6-3-4      71.04
6-3-5      71.05
6-3-6      71.06
6-3-7      71.07
6-3-8      71.08
6-3-9      71.09
6-3-10     71.10
6-3-11     71.11
6-3-12     71.12
6-3-13     71.13
6-4-1      72.001
6-4-2      72.002
6-4-3      72.003
6-4-4      72.004
6-4-5      72.005
6-4-6      72.006
6-4-7      72.007
6-4-8      72.008
6-4-9      72.009
6-4-10     72.010
6-4-11     72.011
6-4-12     72.012
6-4-13     72.013
6-4-14     72.014
6-4-15     72.015
6-4-16     72.016
6-4-17     72.017
6-4A-1     72.030
6-4A-2     72.031
6-4A-3     72.032
6-4A-4     72.033
6-4A-5     72.034
6-4A-6     72.035
6-4A-7     72.036
6-4A-8     72.037
6-4B-1     72.050
6-4B-2     72.051
6-4B-3     72.052
6-4B-4     72.053
6-4B-5     72.054
6-4B-6     72.055
6-4B-7     72.056
6-4C-1     72.070
6-4C-2     72.071
6-4C-3     72.072
6-4C-4     72.073
6-4D-1     72.085
6-4D-2     72.086
6-4D-3     72.087
6-4D-4     72.088
6-4D-5     72.089
6-5-1      73.01
6-5-2      73.02
6-5-3      73.03
6-5-4      73.04
6-5-5      73.05
6-5-6      73.06
6-5-7      73.07
6-5-8      73.08
6-5-9      73.09
6-5-10     73.10
6-5-11     73.11
6-6-1      74.01
6-6-2      74.02
6-6-3      74.03
6-6-4      74.04
6-6-5      74.05
6-6-6      74.06
6-6-7      74.07
6-6-8      74.08
6-6-9      74.09
6-6-10     74.10
6-6-11     74.11
6-6-12     74.12
6-6-13     74.13
6-6-14     74.14
6-6-15     74.15
6-6-16     74.16
6-7-1      75.01
6-7-2      75.02
6-7-3      75.03
6-7-4      75.04
6-7-5      75.05
6-7-6      75.06
6-7-7      75.07
6-7-8      75.08
6-7-9      75.09
6-7-10     75.10
6-7-11     75.11
6-8-1      70.35
6-8-2      70.36
6-8-3      70.37
6-8-4      70.38
6-9-1      76.01
6-9-2      76.02
6-9-3      76.03
6-9-4      76.04
6-10-1     77.01
6-10-2     77.02
6-10-3     77.03
6-10-4     77.04
6-10-5     77.05
6-10-6     77.06
6-10-7     77.07
6-10-8     77.08
6-11-1     78.01
6-11-2     78.02
6-11-3     78.03
6-11-4     78.04
6-11-5     78.05
6-11-6     78.06
6-11-7     78.07
6-11-8     78.08
6-11-9     78.09
6-11-10    78.10
6-11-11    78.11
6-12-1     78.25
6-12-2     78.26
6-12-3     78.27
6-12-4     78.28
6-12-5     78.29
6-13-1     70.50
6-13-2     70.99
6-13-3     70.51
6-13-4     70.52
6-13-5     70.53
6-13-6     70.54
6-13-7     70.55
7-1A-1     151.01
7-1A-2     151.02
7-1A-3     151.03
7-1A-4     151.04
7-1A-5     151.05
7-1A-6     151.06
7-1A-7     151.07
7-1A-8     151.99
7-1B-1     151.20
7-1B-2     151.21;
           App. H
7-1B-3     151.22
7-1B-4     151.23
7-1B-5     151.24
7-1B-6     151.25
7-1B-7     151.26
7-1B-8     151.27
7-1B-9     151.99
7-2-1      97.01
7-5-1      98.01
7-5-2      98.02
7-5-3      98.03
7-5-4      98.04
7-5-5      98.05
7-5-6      98.06
7-5-7      98.07
7-5-8      98.08
7-5-9      98.09
7-5-10     98.10
7-5-11     98.11
7-5-12     98.12
7-5-13     98.13
7-5-14     98.14
7-6-1      79.01
7-6-2      79.02
7-6-3      79.03
7-6-4      79.04
7-6-5      79.05
7-6-6      79.06
7-6-7      79.07
7-6-8      79.99
8-1-1      51.01
8-1-2      51.02
8-1-3      51.03;
           App. C
8-1-4      51.04
8-1-5      51.05
8-1-6      51.06;
           App. C
8-1-7      51.07
8-1-8      51.08;
           App. C
8-1-9      51.09
8-1-10     51.10
8-1-11     51.11
8-1-12     51.12
8-1-13     51.13
8-1-14     51.14
8-1-15     51.15
8-1-16     51.16
8-1-17     51.17
8-1-18     51.18
8-2-1      52.01
8-2-2      52.02
8-2-3      52.03
8-2-4      52.04;
           App. C
8-2-5      52.05
8-2-6      52.06
8-2-7      52.07;
           App. C
8-2-8      52.08
8-2-9      52.09
8-2-10     52.10;
           App. C
8-2-11     52.11;
           App. C
8-2-12     52.12
8-2-13     52.13
8-2-14     52.14
8-2-15     52.15
8-3-1      50.01
8-3-2      50.02
8-3-3      50.03
8-3-4      50.04
8-3-5      50.05
8-3-6      50.06
8-3-7      50.07
8-3-8      50.08
8-3-9      50.09
8-3-10     50.99
8-3-11     50.10
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     35.045;
183      9-5-1978    35.046;
                     35.048;
                     35.049
264      7-8-1992    52.07;
                     App. C
                     96.01—
271      2-3-1994    96.06;
                     96.99
273      2-3-1994    151.01
274      6-9-1994    92.01
275      7-7-1994    92.01
277      7-7-1994    51.03;
                     App. C
                     31.001;
                     50.04;
                     50.09;
                     51.01;
                     51.02;
                     51.05;
                     51.13;
                     52.07;
                     70.52;
                     91.08;
                     94.12;
278      1-5-1995    94.13;
                     110.01;
                     110.06;
                     111.06;
                     111.08;
                     113.02;
                     113.04;
                     114.02;
                     116.01;
                     App. C;
                     App. E;
                     App. F
279      1-5-1995    31.001
281      7-6-1995    36.07
282      7-6-1995    31.021
284      2-8-1996    135.03
285      4-9-1996    34.06
                     76.01;
286      8-8-1996    76.02;
                     91.06
                     112.01—
287      12-5-1996   112.03;
                     112.99
                     30.07;
                     31.035—
                     31.037;
288      1-9-1997    33.04;
                     111.65—
                     111.68;
                     111.99
295      9-9-1999    92.01
297      7-6-2000    31.050;
                     31.051
298      7-19-2000   35.003
299      10-5-2000   35.030;
                     35.031
300      10-5-2000   36.14;
                     App. B
302      3-22-2001   33.03;
                     33.04
304      11-8-2001   36.14;
                     App. B
305      11-6-2001   30.06
309      9-16-2003   35.004;
                     35.005
311      9-9-2004    34.20—
                     34.27
314      6-23-2005   135.01
315      8-11-2005   30.01
320      10-5-2006   31.007
322      1-26-2007   31.050
324      10-11-2007  94.05
326      6-26-2008   135.01
                     95.01;
327      8-7-2008    95.02;
                     95.99;
                     App. E
328      9-11-2008   94.05
330      3-5-2009    31.004
331      6-11-2009   98.15
332      10-8-2009   31.004
333      10-8-2009   36.22;
                     App. B
                     112.15—
334      10-8-2009   112.26;
                     112.99;
                     App. F
                     94.01;
335      10-8-2009   94.02;
                     App. E
                     51.01;
337      6-10-2010   51.19;
                     App. C
338      6-10-2010   70.35
339      7-8-2010    36.14;
                     App. B
340      7-8-2010    36.15;
                     App. B
341      1- -2012    73.04
                     35.005;
342      8-9-2012    35.060—
                     35.087
345      6-6-2013    93.01;
                     93.99
                     35.045;
346      6-13-2013   35.046;
                     35.049
347      10-10-2013  34.06
348      11-12-2013  98.15
349      11-12-2013  34.08
350      12-5-2013   78.30;
                     App. D
351      7-10-2014   94.02;
                     App. E
352      7-10-2014   32.16
354      4-9-2015    31.004
355      7-9-2015    98.15
356      7-9-2015    73.04
357      7-9-2015    73.05
                     117.01—
358      7-9-2015    117.03;
                     117.99;
                     App. F
359      7-9-2015    31.004
360      6-9-2016    131.02
361      6-9-2016    36.14;
                     App. B
362      8-11-2016   135.01
363      12-8-2016   30.06
                     153.01—
364      3-13-2017   153.17;
                     App. H
365      4-10-2017   31.004
370      5-29-2018   35.005
371      5-29-2018   35.005
372      8-13-2018   111.01—
                     111.05
373      8-13-2018   Ch. 80, Sch. I;
                     App. D
376      5-13-2019   30.07
                     118.01—
380      2-13-2020   118.06;
                     118.99;
                     App. F
379      12-9-2020   51.20
                     154.001—
                     154.008;
                     154.020;
                     154.035—
                     154.042;
                     154.055—
                     154.062;
                     154.075—
                     154.080;
                     154.095—
                     154.100;
                     154.115—
                     154.127;
                     154.140—
                     154.146;
                     154.160—
                     154.167;
382      7-8-2021    154.180—
                     154.183;
                     154.195—
                     154.205;
                     154.220—
                     154.229;
                     154.240—
                     154.255;
                     154.270—
                     154.275;
                     154.290—
                     154.299;
                     154.310—
                     154.312;
                     154.325—
                     154.332;
                     154.999;
                     App. H
                     150.001—
                     150.005;
                     150.020—
                     150.035;
                     150.050—
                     150.067;
                     150.080—
                     150.089;
                     150.100—
                     150.106;
                     150.120—
                     150.126;
                     150.140—
                     150.152;
                     150.165—
                     150.177;
381      8-12-2021   150.190—
                     150.235;
                     150.250—
                     150.252;
                     150.999;
                     152.001—
                     152.010;
                     152.025;
                     152.026;
                     152.040—
                     152.042;
                     152.055—
                     152.062;
                     152.075—
                     152.080;
                     152.999;
                     App. H
383      8-12-2021   30.07
384      4-14-2022   31.005
                     119.01—
                     119.07;
385      - -2023     119.99;
                     App. C;
                     App. F
                     52.16;
386      12-14-2023  52.99;
                     App. C
                     52.11;
387      11-30-2023  52.99;
                     App. C
388      1-11-2024   51.08;
                     App. C
                    
 
 
