HOLDENVILLE, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CORPORATE AND OFFICIAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Ordinances in effect in outlying territory of city
   
10.05   Code alterations
   
10.06   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.07   Public ways and public utility ordinances
   
10.08   Effect of repeal of ordinances
   
10.09   Court proceedings
   
10.10   Separability clause
   
10.11   Liability of officers
Definitions
   
10.25   Construction of words
   
10.26   Definitions, general
   
10.27   Catchlines
 
   
10.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   Upon the adoption by the City Council, this city code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Holdenville. This
city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the Holdenville Code and is
hereby published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in §
10.03 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.06 of this title.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.04 ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF CITY.
   All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby extended
to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city outside
the corporate limits of the city, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar
as they are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into effect
in the future shall also apply to, and be in full effect within the boundaries
of all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in
any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited
to the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to mean and include also
the outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4)
§ 10.05 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby; provided,
that supplementation of this code by authorized persons shall be permitted. Any
person violating this section shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this title.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.06 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.07 PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public
ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities
shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of
the preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.08 EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance
repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 10.09 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Prior acts. No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   Extend to all repeals. This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Current pending actions. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
§ 10.10 SEPARABILITY CLAUSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are severable, and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this code or of any
ordinance in the code shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise
invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction,
such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-5)
§ 10.11 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provision of this city code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
DEFINITIONS
§ 10.25 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   (A)   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this city code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this city code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   (B)   The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to “title”, “chapter”, “section” and/
or “division” or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city’s ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
   (C)   Words and phrases which are not specifically defined shall be
construed according to the common and accepted usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.26 DEFINITIONS, GENERAL.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CLEET. Council on Law Enforcement and Education Training.
   CITY or THIS CITY. Shall be construed as if the words “of Holdenville,
Oklahoma” followed them.
   CODE. The Holdenville Code of the City of Holdenville, Oklahoma.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to
be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing the
time but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
   COUNTY. The County of Hughes, State of Oklahoma.
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
City of Holdenville”.
   FEE. A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   GENDER. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to the
other gender and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   LAW. Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the Constitution and
statutes of the State of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the city, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the city.
   MISDEMEANOR or PUBLIC OFFENSE. Any violation or failure to comply with any
of the terms, conditions or requirements of any ordinance, or section or part
thereof, contained in this code.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   O.S. Oklahoma Statutes.
   OATH. Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases, the
words SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the City of
Holdenville”.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OR, AND. OR may be read AND, and AND may be read OR, if the sense requires
it.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Shall include real and personal property.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
   STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to statutes of the State of Oklahoma as
they now are or as they may be amended to be.
   STREET. Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other
public ways in the city which are dedicated and open to public use.
   TENANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WEEK. Seven days.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person’s proper mark.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.27 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General and specific penalties.
      (1)   Penalty imposed. Except as otherwise provided by state law,
whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or
is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever
in the code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $250, including costs.
Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this code or of
any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Specific penalties. Specific penalties for violations of specific
provisions of this code may be adopted by the City Council from time to time by
motion or resolution. Such specific penalties as adopted or amended are adopted
and incorporated herein by reference. A complete listing of fines shall be
available for public viewing in the City Clerk’s office.
      (3)   Aiding or abetting violation. Any person who shall aid, abet or
assist in the violation of any provision of this code or any other ordinance
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in this section.
      (4)   Incarceration fees. Any person who is incarcerated in any jail for
violating any provisions of this code shall be responsible for the jailing
facility’s incarceration fees associated with said violation and detention.
Said incarceration fees shall be additional to the fine and court costs
associated with the code violation at issue.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Fines recoverable by civil action. All fines shall be recoverable by
civil action before any court of competent jurisdiction in addition to any
other method provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   Application of provisions.
      (1)   Application of penalty. The penalty provided in this chapter shall
be applicable to every section of this city code the same as though it were a
part of each and every separate section.
      (2)   Acts punishable under different sections. In all cases where the
same offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections
of this city code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed,
but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the
same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Breach of provisions. Whenever the doing of any act or the omission
to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this city
code and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such
breach, the provisions of this section shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
(Ord. 590, passed 2-18-1997; Ord. 883, passed 7- -2023)
CHAPTER 11: CORPORATE AND OFFICIAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
11.01   Official city map
   
11.02   Ward number and boundaries
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CITY MAP.
   The map of the city showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as
the official map of the city, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the city, including all
annexations made to the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 11.02 WARD NUMBER AND BOUNDARIES.
   The city is divided into four wards, the boundaries thereof as follows:
   (A)   Ward number one of the city consists of and includes all that part of
the city north of Seventh Street and east of Broadway and Twelfth Avenue,
extending north from the intersection of Broadway and Twelfth Avenue and being
bounded on the south by Seventh Street, and on the west by Broadway and Twelfth
Street (Avenue), and on the north and east by the boundary line of the city as
now established or as may hereafter be extended;
   (B)   Ward number two of the city consists of and includes all that part of
the city north of Seventh Street and west of Broadway and Twelfth Avenue from
the intersection of Broadway and Twelfth Avenue north, being bounded on the
south by Seventh Avenue or Street, on the east by Broadway and Twelfth Avenue,
and on the north and west by the boundary line of the city as now established
or as hereafter may be extended;
   (C)   Ward number three of the city consists of and includes all that part
of the city south of Seventh Street (Avenue) and west of Broadway, being
bounded on the north by Seventh Street, on the east by Broadway and on the
south and west by the boundary line of the city as now established or as may
hereafter be established or extended; and
   (D)   Ward number four of the city consists of and includes all that part of
the city south of Seventh Street and including Blocks 4 and 5 in the Hill Crest
Addition to the city and all that part of the city east of Broadway and
including Blocks 3, 4 and 5 in the Fream Addition to the city being bounded on
the north by Seventh Street, on the west by Broadway and on the south and east
by the boundary line of the city as now established or as may hereafter be
extended.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY EMPLOYEES
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   PENSION SYSTEMS
      
36.   FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
      
37.   TAXATION
      
38.   MUNICIPAL COURT
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Form of government; election; term
   
30.02   President of Council
   
30.03   Council meetings
   
30.04   Quorum
   
30.05   Order of business
   
30.06   Rules governing procedure
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT; ELECTION; TERM.
   (A)   Form and composition. The city is governed by a statutory Council-
Manager form of government. The City Council shall consist of five members,
four from wards and one Council member at large.
   (B)   Staggered terms.
      (1)   The terms of the elected officers shall be staggered so that at any
one general municipal election, the following officers shall be elected for
four-year terms: Council members from wards one and two.
      (2)   At the next general municipal election, the following officers
shall be elected for a four-year term: Council members from wards three and
four, and the Council member at large.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1) (Ord. 882, passed 8-16-2022)
§ 30.02 PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   Election by members. The Council shall elect from among its members a
President of the Council. The Council President shall be elected in each odd
numbered year at the first Council meeting held after Council terms begin or as
soon thereafter as practicable, and he or she shall serve until his or her
successor has been elected and qualified.
   (B)   Act as Mayor. The Council President shall act as Mayor in the absence
of the Mayor. While presiding in the place of the Mayor, he or she shall have
all the powers, rights and privileges as other members of the Council. The
Council shall have the powers and duties as prescribed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 30.03 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Place of meetings. Every meeting of the Council shall be held in the
Council chamber in the municipal building unless, in case of an emergency, the
Mayor, when calling a special meeting, designates another place in the city for
the holding of the special meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held at any
other place within the city designated by the Council.
   (B)   Regular meetings. The City Council shall hold a regular meeting at 6:
30 p.m. on every first and every third Tuesday of every month. If such a
Tuesday falls on a holiday, the regular meeting shall be held at that time on
the next succeeding day which is not a holiday.
   (C)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Council may be called by the
Mayor or by any three Council members at any time. The call for the meeting
must be in writing and must be mailed to the Mayor and all Council members
excepting those who signed the call at least two days before the meeting. The
purpose or purposes of the meeting shall be set forth in the call, and no other
business shall be transacted at such meeting. The call shall be read at the
meeting and shall be entered in full in the journal.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 30.04 QUORUM.
   In all cases, it shall require a majority of the members of the Council to
constitute a quorum to do or transact any business, but a smaller number may
adjourn from time to time and from day to day, to any date prior to the next
regular meeting, and may compel the attendance of absent members. Any willful
absence of any Council member, when requested to attend for the purpose of
having a quorum, shall constitute a dereliction of duty and subject such
offending Council member to removal from office.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 30.05 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The Council shall attend to the business before it in the following order:
   (A)   Call to order;
   (B)   Roll call;
   (C)   Determination of quorum;
   (D)   Approval of minutes of the previous meeting;
   (E)   Presentation of petitions, memorials and other communications and the
hearing of citizens;
   (F)   Reports of special committees;
   (G)   Report of standing committees in their order;
   (H)   Claims and purchase orders;
   (I)   Reports of officers;
   (J)   Unfinished business;
   (K)   New business;
   (L)   Communications from Mayor or Council, officers, audience; and
   (M)   Adjourn.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)
§ 30.06 RULES GOVERNING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Rules enumerated. The following rules shall prevail and govern all
meetings of the Council.
      (1)   The Mayor, or the President of the Council in his or her absence,
shall preside over the Council, shall preserve order and decorum and shall
decide all questions of order, subject to appeal to the Council.
      (2)   While the Mayor or presiding officer is putting the question, no
member shall leave his or her seat.
      (3)   Every member, previous to speaking, shall rise and address himself
or herself to the presiding officer, and shall not proceed with his or her
remarks until recognized by the presiding officer.
      (4)   When a question is under debate, the only motions in order shall
be: to adjourn, to take a recess, to lay on the table, the previous question,
to limit or extend limits of debate, to postpone to a certain time, to commit
or refer, to amend, to postpone indefinitely. Each such motion shall take
precedence in the order named, and the first five shall be decided without
debate.
      (5)   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order when the floor can be
obtained for that purpose, except while the yeas and nays are being called,
while members are voting, when adjournment was the last motion, or when it has
been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
      (6)   A motion to lay on the table is not debatable; and such motion may
not be made with any condition included in it (that is, it must be simply a
motion to lay on the table).
      (7)   A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take precedence
over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
      (8)   A question may be reconsidered at or during the same meeting or at
the first meeting thereafter; provided, however, that a motion to reconsider
must be made by a member who voted in the majority, and in case of a tie vote
those who vote in the negative shall be considered the majority.
      (9)   All rules laid down in Robert’s Rules of Order, latest edition, are
hereby declared to be the rules governing the Council, except in case of
conflict with the rules herein laid down and adopted.
   (B)   Suspension of rules. The rules may be temporarily suspended by a vote
of two-thirds of those voting on the question of suspension; but shall not be
repealed, altered or amended, except by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6)
CHAPTER 31: CITY EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Elected officials
   
31.02   Appointive officers, personnel
   
31.03   Eligibility; qualifications
   
31.04   Official bonds
   
31.05   Social Security
City Officials; Generally
   
31.19   City Manager
   
31.20   City Clerk
   
31.21   City Attorney
   
31.22   Chief of Police
Mayor
   
31.35   Administrative officer; election
   
31.36   Vacancy in office
   
31.37   Powers and duties
Alcohol and Controlled Substance Testing
   
31.50   Policy statement
   
31.51   Effective date
   
31.52   Application
   
31.53   Applicant pre-employment testing
   
31.54   For cause testing
   
31.55   Post accident testing
   
31.56   Random testing
   
31.57   Periodic scheduled testing
   
31.58   Post rehabilitation testing
   
31.59   Substance for which tests may be given
   
31.60   Methods and documentation
   
31.61   Costs
   
31.62   Refusal to undergo testing or tampering with sample
   
31.63   Review officer
   
31.64   Confidentiality
   
31.65   Disciplinary action
   
31.66   Prohibitions
   
31.67   Responsibilities of individuals
   
31.68   Medical marijuana
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Election; terms of office.
      (1)   In this Council-Manager form of government, all elected officers
shall have four- year terms. The terms of the elected officers shall be
staggered so that at any one general municipal election, the following officers
are to be elected for four-year terms:
         (a)   One Council member from Ward 1 and Ward 2 of the city;
         (b)   The Mayor;
      (2)   At the next general municipal election, the following officers are
to be elected for four-year terms: One Council member from Ward 3, Ward 4, and
At Large of the city.
      (3)   Each candidate must be a qualified elector by virtue of being a
resident and registered voter within the municipality, or in the ward if an
office is from a ward, for at least six months prior to filing a declaration of
candidacy.
   (B)   Compensation.
      (1)   The salaries of the elected officers of the city and their rates of
compensation shall be set by ordinance of the Council.
      (2)   The salaries shall be as follows:
 
Council members $2,400/year
Mayor           $15,000/year
 
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 865, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 31.02 APPOINTIVE OFFICERS, PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Appointments. The City Manager shall appoint such other officers and
employees as the City Manager and Council deem necessary.
   (B)   Compensation. The salaries or other compensation to be paid to all
other officers and employees appointed by the Mayor, with the consent and
confirmation of the Council, shall be determined by motion or resolution
adopted by the Council, and may be changed from time to time in the same
manner.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
§ 31.03 ELIGIBILITY; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Elected or appointed city officers. All officers elected or appointed
to office in the city shall be residents of the city, and shall have such other
qualifications as the ordinances may prescribe.
   (B)   City Council members. Members of the City Council shall be residents
and registered voters of the city, and Council members shall be actual
residents of their respective wards.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3)
§ 31.04 OFFICIAL BONDS.
   (A)   The various officers of the city, as listed below, are required to
enter into a good and sufficient bond to the city, to be approved by the Mayor
and City Council, conditioned for the faithful performance of their duties and
the accounting and paying to the city all monies and property coming into their
hands and possession by virtue of their offices, as the Mayor and Council shall
from time to time determine by resolution.
   (B)   Bonds to the city shall be in the amounts approved by the Mayor and
Council:
      (1)   All employees, either by individual or blanket bond;
      (2)   Police officers; and
      (3)   City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-4)
§ 31.05 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. It is hereby declared to be the policy and
purpose of the city to extend, at the earliest date, to the eligible employees
and officials of the city the benefits of the system of Federal old age and
survivors insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act, and all
amendments thereto, and 51 O.S. §§ 121 et seq. In pursuance of this policy, the
officers and employees of the city shall take such action as may be required by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   (B)   Execution of agreement with state agency. The Mayor is authorized and
directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments with the Oklahoma
State Department of Human Services to accomplish the provisions of division (A)
of this section.
   (C)   Withholdings. Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purposes provided in division (A) of this section are hereby
authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by
applicable state and federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the
state or federal agency designated by the laws and regulations.
   (D)   Contributions. Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts
appropriated for these purposes from available funds to the designated state or
federal agency in accordance with applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
   (E)   Records and reports. The city shall keep such records and submit such
reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   (F)   Exclusions. Excluded from this section authorizing the extension of
Social Security benefits to city officers and employees are the following: any
authority to make any agreement with respect to any position, employee or
official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position, employee or
official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5)
CITY OFFICIALS; GENERALLY
§ 31.19 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Duties.
      (1)   The City Manager shall be the chief executive officer and head of
the administrative branch of the city government. He or she shall execute the
laws and administer the government of the city, and shall be responsible
therefor to the Council.
      (2)   The City Manager shall:
         (a)   Appoint, and when necessary for the good of the service, remove,
demote, layoff, or suspend all heads of administrative departments and other
administrative officers and employees of the city except as otherwise provided
by law. The City Manager, or the Council by ordinance, may authorize the head
of a department, office, or agency to appoint and remove the subordinates in
such department, office, or agency;
         (b)   Supervise and control all administrative departments, officers,
and agencies;
         (c)   Prepare a budget annually and submit said budget to the Council
and be responsible for the administration of the budget after it goes into
effect; and recommend to the Council any changes in the budget which he or she
deems desirable;
         (d)   Submit to the Council a report after the end of the fiscal year
on the finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding
year;
         (e)   Keep the Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the city, and make recommendations as he or she deems desirable; and
         (f)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or by
ordinance.
   (B)   Appointment by Council. The Council shall appoint a City Manager for
an indefinite term by a vote of a majority of all its members. It shall choose
him or her solely on the basis of his or her executive and administrative
qualifications with special reference to his or her actual experience in, or
his or her knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the duties of his or
her office. At the time of his or her appointment, the City Manager need not be
a resident of the city or state; but during the tenure of his or her office he
or she shall reside within the city. The City Manager may appoint himself or
herself, or the Council or other authority may appoint or elect him or her, to
other offices and positions in the city government, subject to regulations
prescribed by ordinance; but he or she may not receive compensation for service
in such other offices or positions. Neither the Mayor nor any members of the
City Council may be appointed City Manager during the term for which he or she
shall have been elected nor within two years after the expiration of his or her
term. The salary of the City Manager shall be fixed by a majority vote of all
members of the Council.
   (C)   Suspension or removal by Council. The Council may suspend or remove
the City Manager or acting City Manager, at any time by a vote of a majority of
all its members at a public meeting.
   (D)   Designation of Acting City Manager. The City Manager, by letter filed
with the City Clerk, may appoint a qualified administrative officer of the city
to be Acting City Manager during the temporary absence or disability of the
City Manager. The Council may appoint an Acting City Manager whenever:
      (1)   The City Manager fails to make such designation;
      (2)   The Council suspends the City Manager; or
      (3)   There is a vacancy in the office of City Manager.
   (E)   Purchases and sales by City Manager; competitive bidding; transfer of
City Manager’s powers.
      (1)   The City Manager shall contract for, purchase, or issue purchase
authorizations for all supplies, materials, and equipment for offices,
departments, and agencies of the city government, subject to any regulations
which the Council may prescribe. Every contract or purchase exceeding an amount
to be established by the Council shall require the prior approval of the
Council. The City Manager may also sell or transfer to or between offices,
departments, and agencies, surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, and
equipment, subject to regulations the Council may prescribe.
      (2)   The Council may prescribe requirements and procedures for
competitive bidding. Notice and opportunity for competitive bidding shall be
given before a purchase or contract for supplies, materials, or equipment is
made, and before a sale of any surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or
equipment is made, in accordance with regulations the Council may prescribe.
The Council shall not exempt a particular contract, purchase, or sale from the
requirement of competitive bidding.
      (3)   The Council may transfer some or all of the power granted to the
City Manager pursuant to the provisions of this section to an employee
appointed by, and subordinate to, the City Manager.
§ 31.20 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Consolidation of offices. The offices of the City Clerk and City
Treasurer are hereby consolidated into one office, and the legal and
administrative duties of the Clerk and the Treasurer shall be performed by one
official to be known as the “City Clerk”.
   (B)   General powers and duties. The City Clerk shall have and perform the
following powers and duties:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the City Council, keep a journal of its
proceedings, enter at length all ordinances passed by the Council in the
ordinance book, and keep the seal of the city and affix it to documents as
provided by applicable state law;
      (2)   Collect or receive revenues and other monies for the City as
provided by law or ordinance, and deposit all such monies in depositories
designated by the City Council. Such monies shall be disbursed only in
accordance with law. He or she shall keep proper books of accounts and other
financial records, properly recording all financial transactions; and
      (3)   Have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by law or
ordinance.
   (C)   Keeping records. The City Clerk shall keep appropriate records, papers
or documents belonging to the city.
   (D)   Making reports. The City Clerk shall report to the Council on the
activities and financial transactions of his or her office as required by the
Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-7) (Ord. 568, passed 4-19-1993)
§ 31.21 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment. The City Attorney shall be appointed by the City Manager
and the appointment confirmed by the Council, and shall hold office at the
pleasure of the City Manager and Council.
   (B)   Qualifications. He or she shall have such qualifications, powers and
duties as are prescribed by law or by the Council.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   It is the duty of the City Attorney to advise the Mayor and Council
and each member thereof, and all city officials, upon all legal questions.
      (2)   He or she shall give opinions in writing when requested and shall
represent the city as counsel in all litigation and proceedings, in all courts,
for or against the city, and shall perform such other legal service in behalf
of the city, its officers or employees, as may be required.
      (3)   The duties of the City Attorney include the giving of advice to all
city departments and department heads.
   (D)   Compensation. The City Attorney shall be allowed his or her actual and
necessary traveling and hotel expenses while outside of the city on business
for the city upon direction of the City Council. This expense shall be in
addition to his or her regular compensation as fixed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-8)
§ 31.22 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   General powers and duties: The Chief of Police shall have and perform
the following powers and duties:
      (1)   The Chief shall be the head of the city’s law enforcement agency
and shall be responsible for leading the Department and overseeing the
Department budget; and
      (2)   Have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by law or
ordinance.
   (B)   Qualifications and requirements.
      (1)   Must be CLEET certified prior to assuming the position and
throughout employment as Chief; and
      (2)   Must live within 60 miles of the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-10) (Ord. 866, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. 877, passed 8-18-
2020)
MAYOR
§ 31.35 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER; ELECTION.
   The Mayor is the chief administrative officer of the city and shall have all
the powers and duties prescribed by state law and as may be prescribed by
ordinance. The schedule for election of the Mayor is provided in §
31.01 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.36 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   In the event of the absence, disability, resignation or removal of the
Mayor, the President of the Council shall act as Mayor. During the time the
President shall act as Mayor, he or she shall receive the same compensation
that the Mayor would be entitled to receive.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 31.37 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall have and perform the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Preside at meetings. Preside at meetings of the City Council, and
shall have a casting vote when the Council is equally divided. He or she shall
have the superintending control of all administrative officers and
administrative affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of
the city are enforced and complied with;
   (B)   Sign commissions; approve bonds. Sign the commissions and appointments
of all officers appointed by the Mayor with the consent and confirmation of the
Council, and endorse the approval of all official bonds approved by the Mayor
and Council;
   (C)   Sign warrants. Sign all orders and warrants drawn upon the City Clerk
for money. He or she shall require the City Clerk to attest the same, and to
affix thereto the seal of the city. The City Clerk shall keep an accurate
record thereof in a book to be provided for that purpose;
   (D)   Veto power. Have the power to sign or veto any city ordinance passed
by the Council, provided that any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed
over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of all the members of the Council,
notwithstanding the veto. Should the Mayor neglect or refuse to sign any
ordinance or return the same with his or her objections in writing at the next
regular meeting of the Council, the same shall become a law without his or her
signature;
   (E)   Messages to Council. From time to time, communicate to the City
Council such information and recommend such measures as in his or her opinion
may tend to the well-being of the city;
   (F)   Require report of officers. When he or she deems it necessary, require
any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other official papers
and to make a report to the City Council in writing, touching any subject
matter pertaining to his or her office;
   (G)   Enforce ordinances; jurisdiction. Have power to enforce all laws and
ordinances and shall cause all officers to be dealt with promptly for any
neglect or violation of their duty. He or she shall have such jurisdiction as
may be vested in him or her by ordinance over all places within five miles of
the corporate limits of the city, for the enforcement of any health,
quarantine, cemetery, waterworks or other ordinance and regulation thereof; and
   (H)   Pardons; suspension of city officers.
      (1)   Have power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to grant reprieves
and pardons for offenses arising under the ordinances of the city, by and with
the consent of the Council; but no such fine or forfeiture shall be remitted or
pardon granted except at a session of the Council, nor unless the reasons
therefor, together with the order or remission or pardon be entered upon the
journal by the City Clerk; and
      (2)   Have power to suspend all city officers against whom charges of
incompetency or dereliction of duty are preferred, until the Mayor and City
Council can act thereon.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
ALCOHOL AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE TESTING
§ 31.50 POLICY STATEMENT.
   The city recognizes the importance of a drug and alcohol free workplace. The
abuse of drugs, alcohol or other chemical substances by an employee endangers
the safety of the public, the employee and other city employees. The city
recognizes that it is in its best interest, as well as the best interest of its
employees and the public, to prevent and eliminate drug, alcohol and/or
substance abuse in the work place. Any employee found using, possessing,
selling, distributing or being under the influence of an illegal chemical
substance and/or alcohol during working hours or while on city property or
while using city equipment will be subject to discipline up to and including
termination of employment.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.51 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter will be effective ten days after posting in a prominent
place at all city facilities where employees routinely report for duty and
following distribution of the policy to all employees. In addition, a copy will
be given to each applicant for employment upon receipt of a conditional offer
of employment.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.52 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter applies to all employees as well as all applicants for
employment once they have received a conditional offer of employment. EMPLOYEE
is defined as any person who supplies labor for remuneration to his or her
employer in this state and shall not include an independent contractor,
subcontractor or employees of an independent contractor; provided, however, an
independent contractor, subcontractor or employees of an independent
contractor, unless otherwise provided for by contract. This policy will comply
with the Oklahoma Standards for Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Act, being
40 O.S. §§ 551 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.53 APPLICANT PRE-EMPLOYMENT TESTING.
   All applicants will undergo drug and/or alcohol testing following a
conditional offer of employment, but prior to final hiring and assignment.
Refusal to undergo a test, or a positive test, will result in the city
withdrawing its conditional offer of employment. In addition, adulteration of a
specimen for a drug or alcohol test will be considered as a refusal to undergo
a test.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.54 FOR CAUSE TESTING.
   (A)   Drug and/or alcohol testing may be conducted on any employee at any
time the city has reasonable suspicion there is cause to believe an employee
may be under the influence of drugs or alcohol, including, but not limited to,
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Observation of drugs or alcohol on or about the employee’s person
or in the employee’s vicinity;
      (2)   Observation of conduct on the part of the employee that suggests
that the employee is impaired or is under the influence of drugs or alcohol;
      (3)   Receipt of a report of drug or alcohol use by an employee while at
work;
      (4)   Information that an employee has tampered with drug or alcohol
testing at any time;
      (5)   Negative job performance patterns by the employee; or
      (6)   Excessive or unexplained absenteeism or tardiness.
   (B)   The supervisor will verbally inform the employee of the reason for the
test. Additionally, the attached reasonable suspicion determination report will
be completed and signed by the supervisor(s)/witnesses within 24 hours of the
event. A copy of the report will be forwarded to the Human Resources
Department.
   (C)   The employee involved must stop work immediately and will be
transported as soon as possible to the designated testing facility by a
management/supervisory employee. The employee will not be allowed back to work
until the results of the test are known.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.55 POST ACCIDENT TESTING.
   Post accident drug and/or alcohol testing may be conducted on an employee
where there has been damage to city property or equipment while the employee
was at work or the employee or another person has sustained an injury while at
work. The post accident test will be administered while the employee is still
on duty or as close to as possible. No employee required to take a post
accident alcohol or drug test may use any alcohol or drugs, of any kind,
following the accident until the employee undergoes the post accident testing.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.56 RANDOM TESTING.
   The city may, at various times, randomly select members of the following
employment groups, at its discretion, for unannounced random testing for drugs
or alcohol:
   (A)   Police officers;
   (B)   Firefighters;
   (C)   Persons engaged in activities which directly affect the safety of the
public;
   (D)   Employees whose work involves direct contact with inmates in the
custody of the Department of Correction; or
   (E)   Employees whose work requires possession of a CDL.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.57 PERIODIC SCHEDULED TESTING.
   The city may require an employee in any of the employment groups identified
in §
31.56 to undergo drug or alcohol testing as part of a routinely scheduled
employee fitness for duty examination or in connection with the employee’s
return to duty from a leave of absence.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.58 POST REHABILITATION TESTING.
   The city may require an employee to undergo drug and/or alcohol testing,
without prior notice, for a period of up to two years after the employee’s
return to work following a confirmed positive test result or following
participation in a drug or alcohol dependency program. Post rehabilitation
testing will be conducted in addition to any other testing the employee is
subject to under this policy.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.59 SUBSTANCE FOR WHICH TESTS MAY BE GIVEN.
   The city reserves the right to test for all drugs and for the presence of
alcohol. Threshold reporting levels will be those established and maintained by
state and federal regulations relevant to the position held by employee. Any
positive levels below those established reporting levels will not be reported
to the city’s Review Officer by the testing laboratory.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.60 METHODS AND DOCUMENTATION.
   (A)   Collection, storage, transportation, testing facilities and testing
procedures will be conducted in accordance with rules established by the State
Board of Health. Samples may be collected on the premises of the city at its
election. Body component samples will be collected with due regard to the
privacy of the individual being tested. In no case may any city employee
directly observe collection of a urine sample. A written record of the chain of
custody of the sample will be maintained until the sample is no longer
required.
   (B)   All sample testing will conform to scientifically accepted analytical
methods and procedures. Testing will include confirmation testing of any
positive test results by gas chromatography, gas chromatography-mass
spectroscopy or an equivalent scientifically accepted method of equal or
greater accuracy as approved by the State Board of Health at the cut off levels
as determined by the State Board of Health. In the case of the use of
Breathalyzer testing method, no discipline may be imposed unless there is a
confirmation test performed on a second sample that confirms the prior results.
   (C)   An applicant or employee will be given the opportunity to provide
notification of any information which he or she considers relevant to the test,
including currently or recently used drugs or other relevant information. In
the event that an applicant or employee wishes to challenge the results of the
city’s test, he or she may do so as provided in this policy. The applicant or
employee must have had the sample collected within one hour of the city’s
sample and such retest must be in accordance with the standards set forth by
the State Board of Health and in this subchapter.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.61 COSTS.
   The city is responsible for all costs associated with drug or alcohol
testing. However, if an applicant or employee requests a confirmation test of a
sample within 24 hours of receiving notice of a positive test result in order
to challenge the results of the positive test, the applicant or employee is
responsible for the cost of the confirmation test unless the confirmation test
reverses the findings of the challenged positive test. In such case, the city
will reimburse the person for the cost of the confirmation test.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.62 REFUSAL TO UNDERGO TESTING OR TAMPERING WITH SAMPLE.
   Employees who refuse to undergo testing according to the terms of this
subchapter will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including
termination. Adulteration of a specimen or of a drug or alcohol test will be
considered as a refusal to undergo a test and will result in disciplinary
action up through and including termination of employment.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.63 REVIEW OFFICER.
   The city will contract with a Review Officer who will receive confirmed
positive test results from the testing facility and evaluate those results in
conjunction with the subject employee and/or applicant. The Review Officer will
be qualified by the Board of Health to receive, interpret and evaluate the test
results. Upon receiving a confirmed positive test result, the Review Officer
will contact the applicant or employee prior to notification of city officials.
The applicant or employee will be given the opportunity to explain the test
results.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.64 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The city will treat all tests and all information related to such tests, as
confidential materials. All records relating to drug testing will be kept
separated from personnel records. The records are the property of the city but
will be made available to the affected applicant or employee for inspection and
copying upon request and will also be available for review by the Review
Officer. Except as set forth below, the records will not be released to any
person other than the applicant or the employee without that person’s express
written permission. However, the city may release the records:
   (A)   To comply with a valid judicial or administrative order;
   (B)   As admissible evidence in a case or proceeding before a court of
record or administrative agency if the employee or the city is named as a party
in the case or proceeding; or
   (C)   To employees or agents of the city who need access to the records in
connection with the administration of this subchapter and the Oklahoma
Standards for Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Act.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.65 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   The city may elect to take disciplinary action, up to and including
termination of employment, against an employee who tests positive for drugs
and/or alcohol; refused to test under this policy; or adulterates a specimen
for a drug or alcohol test.
   (A)   The city will evaluate the employment history of any employee who
tests positive for drugs and/or alcohol. The appropriate course of action will
be determined based on the employee’s total work record. Where deemed
appropriate by management, an employee may be offered the opportunity to enter
into a rehabilitation program. Continued employment will be contingent upon the
successful completion of a rehabilitation program and an agreement to undergo
periodic drug and/or alcohol post rehabilitation testing for up to two years.
However, the city reserves the right to initiate disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment, for the first positive test result. A
decision regarding disciplinary action under this chapter by management will be
final and binding.
   (B)   Employees who have tested positive, and who have been offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program in lieu of termination
of employment, will not be allowed to return to work until they can provide a
verified negative return to work test from a city-approved facility. An
employee may be allowed a maximum of 12 weeks to provide a verified negative
return to work drug or alcohol test. If a negative test is not provided within
12 weeks, the employee will be terminated from employment. Until a negative
return to work test is supplied, the employee will be on leave without pay.
However, an employee may request permission to use accrued sick leave and
vacation leave. An employee may request a return to work test no sooner than
two weeks from a positive test result, and subsequently every other week
thereafter, until a negative return to work test is obtained. Employees
refusing to seek help or submit to testing in accordance with this subchapter
will be subject to disciplinary action.
   (C)   In the event the city does not terminate the employment of an employee
who has a positive test result, the employee who enters a rehabilitation
program after the positive test results will be permitted to do so only once.
Any future recurrence for abuse with the same or any other substance will
result in termination of employment.
   (D)   An employee who is discharged from employment on the basis of refusal
to undergo drug or alcohol testing or based on a positive drug or alcohol test
will be considered as having been discharged for misconduct for the purpose of
unemployment compensation and the city will protest any application for
unemployment benefits.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.66 PROHIBITIONS.
   No employee will be on duty or operate a city vehicle/equipment or perform
job duties while in possession of alcohol nor use alcohol during duty time.
Further, no employee may report for duty, drive a city-owned vehicle, operate
city equipment or remain on duty when the employee has used any controlled
substance, except when the use is pursuant to the instructions of a physician
and where the physician has advised an employee the substance will not
adversely affect an employee’s ability to drive a vehicle or operate equipment.
No supervisor having knowledge that an employee has used a controlled substance
may permit an employee to be on duty or drive/operate any city vehicle or
equipment.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.67 RESPONSIBILITIES OF INDIVIDUALS.
   In order to comply with the provisions of this subchapter, each employee
assumes the following responsibilities.
   (A)   Working under the influence of performance impairing medication.
Employees who have been prescribed legal medications that might affect the safe
performance of their duties are required to notify their supervisors prior to
performing any hazardous or dangerous tasks.
   (B)   Reporting to work or working while impaired. Employees may not report
to work and may not continue to work while impaired by any restricted substance
identified in this subchapter.
   (C)   Reporting violations. The services provided by certain employees are
performed, at times, under hazardous and dangerous conditions. Thus, employees
are encouraged to come forward and report any violation of this chapter to
management. This information may be instrumental in the prevention of serious
accidents and injuries on the job.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 31.68 MEDICAL MARIJUANA.
   Effective August 28, 2019, employees possessing a valid state issued medical
marijuana license shall not be discriminated against for possessing a license
or testing positive for marijuana that is at or above the cutoff concentration
level established by the United States Department of Transportation or state
law regarding being under the influence, whichever is lower, except in the
following circumstances:
   (A)   Use or possession of marijuana at work or during work hours;
   (B)   The city would fail to obtain or lose federal funding;
   (C)   The employee is required as part of the job duties to possess a
federal license under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the
Federal Aviation Administration, Federal Railroad Administration, Federal
Transit Administration, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration or
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration;
   (D)   The employee’s position involves safety sensitive job duties,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The handling, packaging, processing, storage, disposal or transport
of hazardous materials;
      (2)   The operation of a motor vehicle, other vehicle, equipment,
machinery or power tools;
      (3)   Repairing, maintaining or monitoring the performance or operation
of any equipment, machinery or manufacturing process, the malfunction or
disruption of which could result in injury or property damage;
      (4)   Performing firefighting duties;
      (5)   The operation, maintenance or oversight of critical services and
infrastructure including, but not limited to, electric, gas and water
utilities, power generation, or distribution;
      (6)   The extraction, compression, processing, manufacturing, handling,
packaging, storage, disposal, treatment or transport of potentially volatile,
flammable, combustible materials, elements, chemicals or any other highly
regulated component;
      (7)   Dispensing pharmaceuticals;
      (8)   Carrying a firearm; or
      (9)   Direct patient care or direct child care.
   (E)   The employer is not required to reimburse the costs associated with
the use of medical marijuana.
(Ord. 889, passed 3-5-2024)
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.001   Creation and membership
   
32.002   Quorum
   
32.003   Organization
   
32.004   Personnel hiring authority
   
32.005   Powers and duties
   
32.006   Comprehensive plan; purpose
   
32.007   Zoning Board
   
32.008   Subdivision of land
   
32.009   Uniformity of zoning regulations
   
32.010   Purpose of zoning plan
Board of Adjustment
   
32.025   Creation and authority
   
32.026   Meetings and procedures
   
32.027   Appeals
   
32.028   Powers, appeals
   
32.029   Powers to grant variances
   
32.030   Powers relative to exceptions
   
32.031   Exercise of powers
   
32.032   Appeal to District Court
   
32.033   Initial application form/Board of Adjustment
Emergency Management Organization
   
32.045   Purpose of organization
   
32.046   Department created
   
32.047   Compensation, powers and duties of Director
   
32.048   Enforcement of laws and ordinances
   
32.049   Compensation; nonliability of city
   
32.050   Fallout protection in new public structures
   
32.051   Succession in office; authority
Park Board
   
32.065   Board created; appointment
   
32.066   Duties; expenses
   
32.067   Gifts; contracts
   
32.068   Organization; meeting place
   
32.069   Compensation
Library Board
   
32.080   Board created; appointment
   
32.081   Duties; expenses
   
32.082   City librarian
   
32.083   Contracts with other agencies
   
32.084   Organization; officers
   
32.085   Compensation
Hospital Authority
   
32.100   Creation of Holdenville Hospital Authority
   
32.101   Consent of Hospital Public Works Authority
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.001 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A City Planning Commission is hereby created. It shall consist of five
appointive members, all of whom shall be residents of the city. The five
appointive members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the
Council, and shall serve for terms of three years, the terms to be from January
1 to December 31, or until their successors take office.
   (B)   All such term appointments thereafter shall be for a period of three
years. Appointments to fill vacancies occurring during a term shall be for the
unexpired term only. When the Commission is first appointed the terms of one-
third of the members shall be for three years, one-third for two years and one-
third for one year. The members shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 726, passed 1-15-2008; Ord. 887, passed 1-2-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 OS §§ 45-101 through 45-105
§ 32.002 QUORUM.
   Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. Any action taken by a majority of the members present at a meeting
shall be binding upon the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 726, passed 1-15-2008)
§ 32.003 ORGANIZATION.
   The members of the City Planning Commission shall meet within two weeks
after their appointment and confirmation and organize by electing from their
members a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and Secretary, and shall adopt from
time to time such bylaws, rules and regulations and amendments thereto as may
be necessary to effectuate the purposes of this subchapter. The regular
meetings of the Commission, after the organization meeting as set forth herein,
shall be the third Tuesday evening of July, and each alternate month
thereafter, at which July meeting the Commission shall elect officers as set
out herein, for the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3) (Ord. 726, passed 1-15-2008)
§ 32.004 PERSONNEL HIRING AUTHORITY.
   The Commission shall have the power, subject to the approval of the Council,
to employ planners, engineers, attorneys, clerks and other help deemed
necessary for the efficient operation of the Commission. The salary and
compensation of such employees shall be fixed by the City Council, and shall be
paid out of the city treasury as other officers and employees, and the
necessary expenses incurred by the Commission shall be paid out of the city
treasury as other legal expenses of the city government.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4) (Ord. 726, passed 1-15-2008)
§ 32.005 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall prepare and recommend to the Council for adoption a
comprehensive plan for the physical development and betterment of the city. In
conducting its work, the Commission may consider and investigate any subject
matter pertaining to the development, betterment and zoning of the municipality
and make recommendations as it may deem advisable concerning the adoption
thereof by the Council. The Commission may make or cause to be made surveys,
studies, maps and plans for the conduct of its activities, and before final
action is taken by the Council on the location or design of any public
buildings, statues or memorials, parks, or boulevards, streets, alleys,
playgrounds, public grounds, bridges or any change in the location of any
street or alley, the question shall be submitted to the Commission for
investigation and report. The Commission shall have the power and duty to
review plans, specifications and site plans to be furnished by the applicant
prior to the issuance of building or property permits, which shall conform to
city codes and ordinances and be in accordance with the planning requirements
of the city. The review of single-family dwellings shall not be undertaken by
the Commission but shall remain the responsibility of the building inspector.
In reviewing plans, specifications and site plans, the applicant for the review
and the Commission in approving or denying the application shall use a form
substantially complying with Exhibit A attached and incorporated to the
ordinance codified herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5) (Ord. 726, passed 1-15-2008)
§ 32.006 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; PURPOSE.
   In the preparation of the plan, the Commission shall make careful and
comprehensive surveys and studies of the present conditions and future growth
of the city, and with due regard to its relation to neighboring territory. The
plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a
coordinated, adjusted development of the city and its environs which will be in
accordance with present and future needs, best promote health, safety and
morals, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6) (Ord. 726, passed 1-15-2008)
§ 32.007 ZONING BOARD.
   The City Planning Commission shall make recommendations regarding the
comprehensive plan to the City Council who shall serve as a Zoning Board for
the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7) (Ord. 726, passed 1-15-2008)
§ 32.008 SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   The Commission may prepare and recommend to the Council for adoption, rules
and regulations governing subdivisions of land within the city limits. All
plans, plats and replats of land laid out in two or more lots, plats or
parcels, or streets or alleys, or other ways intended to be dedicated for
public use shall be first submitted to the Commission for its recommendations.
The Commission shall check the proposed dedication or subdivision to ensure
compliance with the comprehensive plan. The disapproval of any plan, plat or
replat by the city shall be deemed the refusal of the dedication thereon.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-8) (Ord. 726, passed 1-15-2008)
§ 32.009 UNIFORMITY OF ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Commission shall prepare and recommend to the Council a zoning
plan to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, the size of
buildings and other structures, the percentage of lots that may be occupied,
the size of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of population, the
location and use of building structures and land for trade, industry,
residences or other purposes.
   (B)   The Commission may recommend the division of the city into districts
of such number, size and area that may be deemed best suited to carry out the
zoning plan. All such regulations shall be uniform for each class or kind of
building throughout the district, but the regulations from one district may
differ from those of other districts.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-9) (Ord. 726, passed 1-15-2008)
§ 32.010 PURPOSE OF ZONING PLAN.
   Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with the comprehensive plan
and designed to lessen congestion in the streets, to secure safety from fire,
panic and other dangers, to promote health and the general welfare, to promote
adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue
concentration of population, to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and the public requirements, such
regulations to be made with a reasonable consideration among other things as to
the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses
and with a view to conserving the value of buildings, and encourage the most
appropriate use of land throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-10) (Ord. 726, passed 1-15-2008)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 32.025 CREATION AND AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created a Zoning Board of Adjustment consisting of five
members, citizens of the city, each to be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council for a term of three years. Vacancies shall be
filled by the appointing authority for the unexpired term of any member whose
term becomes vacant. For the first appointment under the provisions of this
section, however, one member shall be appointed for a term of one year; two
members shall be appointed for a term of two years; and two members shall be
appointed for a term of three years. All appointments thereafter shall be for a
term of three years. Not less than two members shall be appointed from the
membership of the City Council. The Board shall elect a Chairperson from its
membership to serve for a term of one year.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 OS §§ 44-101 through 44-110
§ 32.026 MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES.
   The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson
and at such other times as the Board may determine. The Chairperson, or in his
or her absence, the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and require the
attendance of witnesses by subpoena. The Board shall keep the minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the City Clerk and shall be a public record. The
concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision or determination of any such administrative
official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is
required to pass under any such ordinance or code, or to effect any variation
in such ordinance or code.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-2)
§ 32.027 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the municipality
affected by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken within 30 days after the decision by filing with the officer from whom
the appeal is taken and with the City Clerk notice of appeal specifying the
grounds therefor, and by paying a filing fee in the sum of $25 at the time the
notice is filed. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
   (B)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of
Adjustment after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would in his or her opinion
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application and notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on the cause shown.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
the appeal or other matter referred to it, give public notice thereof as well
as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent
or by attorney.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-3)
§ 32.028 POWERS, APPEALS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the powers to hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the administrative officer in the enforcement of the
zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-4)
§ 32.029 POWERS TO GRANT VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to authorize upon appeal
in specific cases such variances from the terms of the zoning regulations of
this code as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the zoning
regulations, will, in any individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so
that the spirit of the zoning regulations shall be observed, public safety and
welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
   (B)   Such variances may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary
hardship upon a finding by the Board of Adjustment that:
      (1)   At the time of the original adoption of the regulations there are
extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of
property in question because of its size, shape or topography, or other
extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition of a specific piece of
property;
      (2)   The strict application of the zoning regulations to this particular
and exceptional piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship, not
self-imposed by the owner or developer;
      (3)   Such conditions are peculiar only to the particular piece of
property involved and not generally prevalent in the area;
      (4)   The strict application of the zoning regulations to this particular
piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship due to a physical
handicap of the owner or occupant and such variance shall be granted on a
temporary basis, expiring upon the termination of the need therefor;
      (5)   “Physical handicap” as used herein shall be established by filing,
with the city, a “physical handicap variance application” upon a form provided
by the city; or
      (6)   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good or impair the purposes and intent of the zoning regulations,
provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or
building or structure that is prohibited by the zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-5)
§ 32.030 POWERS RELATIVE TO EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide special exceptions
to the terms of this subchapter upon which the Board is required to pass under
this subchapter.
   (B)   Upon appeal, the Board is empowered to permit the following
exceptions:
      (1)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in single ownership as shown of record;
      (2)   To interpret the provisions of this subchapter where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map
fixing the several districts, which map is on file in the office of the City
Clerk;
      (3)   To grant exceptions to the off-street parking requirements set
forth in this code when it is determined that the size and shape of the lot to
be built on is such that off-street parking provisions could not be complied
with, and that the proposed use will not create undue traffic congestion in the
adjacent streets; and
      (4)   To grant exceptions to the setback and area requirements herein
established where the slope of the land on 20% or more of the lot to be built
on exceeds 10% where such slope interferes with the reasonable development of
the property for the uses permitted in the district in which the lot is
located; provided, however, that whenever exceptions are granted to setback or
to area requirements, new setback and area requirements for the lot or lots
covered by the exception shall be specifically set forth in a manner that will
carry out the purpose and intent of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-6)
§ 32.031 EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   In exercising its powers the Board may, in conformance with the provisions
of this subchapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such
order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made, and to that
end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. In
considering all appeals from rulings made under this subchapter, the Board
shall, in making its findings on any specific case, determine the effect of the
proposed change upon the supply of light and air to adjacent property, upon the
congestion of the public streets, upon the public safety from fire and other
hazards, upon the established property values within the surrounding area, and
upon other factors relating to the public health, safety, comfort, morals, and
general welfare of the people of the city. Every ruling made upon any appeal to
the Board shall be accompanied by a written finding of fact based upon the
testimony received at the hearing afforded by the Board, and shall specify the
reason for granting or denying the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-7)
§ 32.032 APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT.
   (A)   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment or order of the
Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or severally
aggrieved, or any taxpayer or any officer, department, board or bureau of the
city to the district court by filing notice of appeal with the City Clerk and
with the Board of Adjustment within ten days from the filing of the decision of
the Board, which notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal. Upon filing
of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the Board shall transmit to the
Court Clerk the original or certified copy of all the papers constituting the
record in the case, together with the order, decision or ruling of the Board.
   (B)   An appeal to the district court from the Board of Adjustment stays all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Chairperson
of the Board of Adjustment from which the appeal is taken certifies to the
Court Clerk, after the notice of appeal has been filed, that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would in his or her opinion cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the district
court or superior court upon application or notice to the administrative
officer in charge of the enforcement of the terms and provisions of this
subchapter, and upon notice to the Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment from
which the appeal is taken, and upon due cause being shown, the court may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the decision brought up for
review.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-8)
§ 32.033 INITIAL APPLICATION FORM/BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The form attached to the ordinance codified herein is the exclusive
procedure for an initial hearing request before the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-9)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
§ 32.045 PURPOSE OF ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to create an emergency management
organization for the city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of,
emergencies endangering the lives and property of the people of the city.
   (B)   The duty of such emergency management organization shall be the
protection of the lives and health of the citizens of the city and of property
rights, both private and public, and to perform all functions necessary and
incident thereto.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 32.046 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of
the city a Department of Emergency Management, which shall consist of:
   (A)   A Director of Emergency Management who shall be appointed by the Mayor
of the city and serve at his or her pleasure; and
   (B)   An Emergency Management Advisory Committee. This Committee shall
consist of the Mayor as Chairperson and five members appointed by the Mayor and
serving at his or her pleasure. The Committee shall select from its members a
Vice Chairperson and Secretary. It shall hold such meetings as are directed by
the Mayor or the Director of Emergency Management. Its function shall be to act
in an advisory capacity as needed or requested by the Mayor or the Director of
Emergency Management.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 32.047 COMPENSATION, POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Compensation. The Director of Emergency Management shall serve without
compensation but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of
his or her duties.
   (B)   Duties generally.
      (1)   The Director of Emergency Management shall be the executive head of
the Department of Emergency Management, and shall be responsible for carrying
out the emergency management program of the city.
      (2)   It is the duty of the Director of Emergency Management, as soon as
practicable after his or her appointment, to perfect an organization to carry
out the purposes set forth in this subchapter.
      (3)   He or she shall have all necessary power and authority to form
committees or other bodies and to appoint and designate the Chairperson or
chief officer of such bodies as may be necessary to perfect such an
organization.
      (4)   He or she shall have such further duty and responsibility to
cooperate with all emergency management agencies of other governmental units
including the state and federal government.
   (C)   Plans, information, records. The Director of Emergency Management is
further authorized to formulate written plans and gather information and keep
written records thereof to govern the functions of the emergency management
organization.
   (D)   Emergency powers.
      (1)   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting
from natural causes, the Director of Emergency Management, after due
authorization from the Mayor of the city, shall have the power and authority to
enforce all rules and regulations relating to emergency management and, if
necessary, take control of transportation, communications, stocks of fuel,
food, clothing, medicine and public utilities for the purpose of protecting the
civilian population.
      (2)   He or she shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other
governmental agencies or emergency management organizations.
      (3)   If required by the Mayor, he or she shall have control over any and
all funds allocated from any source for the purpose of alleviating distress
conditions in the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3)
§ 32.048 ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The Director of Emergency Management and other members of the emergency
management organization created by him or her shall have the power and
authority to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the city during
the period of emergency, and shall at such time have the further power to make
arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
§ 32.049 COMPENSATION; NONLIABILITY OF CITY.
   All members of the emergency management organization created hereunder shall
serve without compensation; and the city shall not be liable for any personal
injury received by any member of such organization while acting in line of
duty.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5)
§ 32.050 FALLOUT PROTECTION IN NEW PUBLIC STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Every officer, board, department or commission of the city charged
with the duty of preparing specifications, or awarding or entering into
contracts for the design, erection or construction of buildings, or other
structures, including additions to existing structures, for the city shall
consider or cause to be incorporated in such buildings, or other structures,
fallout protection for at least its normal anticipated population which shall
meet or exceed the minimum space and fallout protection criteria recommended by
the office of emergency management, United States Department of Defense.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city that fallout shelters be considered in
all public buildings of the city to the fullest extent practicable, in order to
provide protection against radiation for the greatest number of people in the
event of nuclear attack.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6)
§ 32.051 SUCCESSION IN OFFICE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Legislative intent. It is hereby declared the legislative intent of
the Mayor and City Council that in the event of an attack upon the United
States of America of such degree of destructiveness that the duly elected
officials of the city are unable or unavailable to act, or in the event of a
civil disaster affecting the city to the same extent, then a procedure for
interim successors to so act should be established.
   (B)   Inability of Mayor to act. In the event of the absence or disability
of the Mayor to carry out his or her duties, then such duties shall be
succeeded to by the President of the Council.
   (C)   Service of Council members. In the event of the unavailability and
absence of both the Mayor and President of the Council, then the successor
shall be the individual members of the Council in order of the wards which they
represent, with the Council member currently holding the longer term to take
precedence.
   (D)   Unavailability of Mayor and Council. In the event of the
unavailability of the Mayor and all members of the Council, then a meeting of
at least 20 qualified voting citizens of the city shall take place at the
Council chamber as soon as possible after the disaster, at which an interim
Mayor and Council shall be elected from among those available for service.
   (E)   Term of emergency interim successor. The authority of an emergency
interim successor shall cease:
      (1)   When the incumbent of the office, or an interim successor higher in
designation becomes available to exercise the powers; or
      (2)   When a successor to the office has been duly elected or appointed
and has qualified according to law.
   (F)   Emergency powers granted to Mayor and Council. During any disaster as
hereinabove defined, the Mayor and Council shall have all necessary emergency
powers to care for the citizens of the city, and for the maintenance of any
refugees or displaced persons.
   (G)   Fiscal limitations waived during emergency. During such emergency, the
normal fiscal limitations on contracting, purchasing and obtaining bids shall
be suspended and the Mayor and Council shall have all necessary authority to
purchase such supplies as necessary or to utilize private property to the
extent commensurate with the needs of the community.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7)
PARK BOARD
§ 32.065 BOARD CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint five
persons who shall constitute the Park Board of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
§ 32.066 DUTIES; EXPENSES.
   (A)   Duties. The Park Board shall have complete and exclusive control of
the parks and all public grounds of the city and the control of beautifying,
landscaping and improving the same.
   (B)   Allowance of bills. All bills therefor shall first be approved by the
Board and submitted to the City Council for allowance as other claims and
purchases are allowed.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2)
§ 32.067 GIFTS; CONTRACTS.
   The Park Board shall have authority to receive gifts, enter into contracts
or agreements with the Board of County Commissioners of the county and the
state through any commission created for the purpose in connection with the
public parks and with the federal government.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3)
§ 32.068 ORGANIZATION; MEETING PLACE.
   (A)   Officers. At the first meeting of the Board, it shall organize by
electing one of its members Chairperson, one of its members Vice Chairperson,
and one of its members Secretary-Treasurer.
   (B)   Meeting place. The meeting place of the Board shall be in the City
Council chamber.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4)
§ 32.069 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5)
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 32.080 BOARD CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   The Library Board shall be composed of five members. All appointments to
membership thereof shall be made by the Mayor, by and with the consent and
confirmation of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
§ 32.081 DUTIES; EXPENSES.
   The Board shall:
   (A)   Have control of the library, subject to the City Council and Mayor;
   (B)   Buy books and other supplies necessary for the operation of the
library;
   (C)   Receive gifts of money, books or other property which may be used or
held in trust for the purpose or purposes given; and
   (D)   Pay all expenses upon claims itemized and filed with the City Clerk as
any and all other claims are filed, except that the funds shall be paid to the
Library Board and by it delivered to the various claimants therefor.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 32.082 CITY LIBRARIAN.
   (A)   Office created. The office of city librarian is hereby created.
   (B)   Recommend employment. The Library Board may recommend employment of
the librarian and shall prescribe such rules and regulations as are necessary
to properly operate and maintain the library.
   (C)   Salary. The salary of the city librarian shall be fixed by the Library
Board with the consent and approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 32.083 CONTRACTS WITH OTHER AGENCIES.
   The Board shall have the power to cooperate with or enter into any contract,
or other agreement, arrangement or understanding with the Board of County
Commissioners, the State Library Commission and any agency of the federal
government for the purpose of maintaining the library or deriving benefits from
either of the agencies.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4)
§ 32.084 ORGANIZATION; OFFICERS.
   At the first meeting of the Board, it shall organize by electing one of its
members Chairperson, one of its members Vice Chairperson; and the librarian
shall be an ex officio member of the Board and Secretary-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-5)
§ 32.085 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-6)
HOSPITAL AUTHORITY
§ 32.100 CREATION OF HOLDENVILLE HOSPITAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The city consents to the Holdenville Hospital Authority, a public
trust, assuming any and all obligations to the city previously held by the
Hospital Board of the Holdenville Public Works Authority.
   (B)   The city expressly assents to the creation of the new trust and
transfer by HPWA to HHA of all hospital related assets held by HPWA.
   (C)   The city accepts the beneficial interest in trust created by HHA,
declaration of trust, and continuation of the existing hospital board under the
same terms and conditions incorporated in the new public trust.
   (D)   The city expressly creates the Holdenville Hospital Authority, a
public trust, and the declaration of trust is attached and incorporated by
reference. The sale of all or substantially all the assets of the statutory
public trust or a long term leasehold agreement of more than ten years is
expressly reserved to the City Council then sitting as trustees of the new
Holdenville Hospital Authority.
(Prior Code, App. 4, § 1) (Ord. 597, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 32.101 CONSENT OF HOSPITAL PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Hospital Public Works Authority (HPWA) consents to the Holdenville
Hospital Authority (HHA), a public trust, assuming any and all obligations to
the city and third parties previously held by the hospital board of the
holdenville public works authority.
   (B)   The HPWA expressly assents to the creation of the new trust and
transfer by HPWA to HHA of all hospital board responsibilities, and related
assets.
   (C)   The HPWA accepts its removal from any further involvement in any
tangible or intangible property of the Holdenville General Hospital.
(Prior Code, App. 4, § 2) (Ord. 598, passed 2-17-1998)
CHAPTER 33: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Fire Department; Generally
   
33.01   Appointment and removal
   
33.02   Fire Department, duties
   
33.03   Chief and Assistant Chief, duties
   
33.04   Department officers
   
33.05   New members
   
33.06   Rules and regulations
   
33.07   Refusing to obey orders at fires
   
33.08   Protection and repair of apparatus
   
33.09   Calls outside city
   
33.10   Contracts for fire protection
   
33.11   Charges for fire runs
Ambulance Service
   
33.25   Sole provider system
FIRE DEPARTMENT; GENERALLY
§ 33.01 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   The Fire Chief, Assistant Chief and firefighters shall be appointed by the
Mayor, by and with the consent and confirmation of the City Council, and shall
serve for indefinite terms, subject to removal as provided in this code or by
applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 33.02 FIRE DEPARTMENT, DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer first aid
to persons injured in or about burning structures, or elsewhere in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless otherwise provided, to
enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention, and safety of
persons from fire and explosions in theaters, stores, and other public
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
§ 33.03 CHIEF AND ASSISTANT CHIEF, DUTIES.
   (A)   Fire Chief.
      (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be at the head of the
Department, subject to the laws of the state, ordinances of the city, and the
rules and regulations herein adopted.
      (2)   He or she shall:
         (a)   Be responsible for the general condition and efficient operation
of the Department, the training of members and the performance of all other
duties imposed upon him or her;
         (b)   Have power to inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
Department, the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year;
         (c)   Maintain a library or file of publications on fire prevention
and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage of all
members;
         (d)   Make every effort to attend all fires and direct the officers
and members in the performance of their duties;
         (e)   See that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the
community and on the activities of the Department;
         (f)   See that each fire is carefully investigated to determine its
cause, and, in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify proper
authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use in the
case;
         (g)   Adopt all prudent measures for the prevention of fires, and
whenever he or she has reason to believe that the safety of property demands
it, he or she and his or her authorized representatives shall have reasonable
access in the daytime to any house, building or premises in the city and may
give directions for correcting or removing hazards or violations as he or she
shall deem proper. Such directions shall be obeyed and complied with by the
person or persons so directed, immediately, at their expense;
         (h)   Keep a record of all fires occurring within the city in a
suitable book, to be provided for that purpose, showing the estimated value of
the loss or damage to property, the amount of insurance, the cause and origin
of fire, and the names of the firefighters attending, and the expenses incurred
to the Department thereby; and
         (i)   Prepare and keep a complete inventory of all property belonging
to the Fire Department, and shall, at the expiration of his or her term, turn
over such inventory and all such property to his or her successor, together
with all books, records, reports and data of such Department.
   (B)   Assistant Fire Chief. In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief
on duty shall command the Department and be held responsible therefor in all
respects with the full powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
§ 33.04 DEPARTMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   Qualifications. The company officers of the Volunteer Department shall
be selected upon their ability to meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Their knowledge of firefighting;
      (2)   Their leadership ability; and
      (3)   Their knowledge of firefighting equipment.
   (B)   Secretary-Treasurer. One member of the Volunteer Department elected by
the Fire Department shall be Secretary-Treasurer. His or her duties shall
consist of the following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      (3)   Collecting the money due the Department by the members.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
§ 33.05 NEW MEMBERS.
   (A)   Probation. All new members shall be on probation for one year after
their appointment.
   (B)   Approval by Department. New volunteer members, upon completion of
their probation period, must be approved by the majority of the Fire Department
members.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5)
§ 33.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Volunteer Fire Department shall be subject to the following rules and
regulations which shall be incorporated in the bylaws of the Department:
   (A)   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies;
   (B)   Each is required to be present at all regular meetings, call meetings
and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters;
   (C)   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month;
   (D)   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in succession
or three unexcused absences in a period of three months will be dropped from
the Fire Department rolls;
   (E)   Volunteer firefighters leaving the city for an extended period of time
will be required to notify the Chief;
   (F)   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him or her will be dropped; and
   (G)   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be dropped from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
      (5)   Conviction of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6)
§ 33.07 REFUSING TO OBEY ORDERS AT FIRES.
   It is the duty of every person at a fire to observe and obey the lawful
orders of any public officer or firefighter of the city, and to offer no
resistance to, or otherwise interfere with, the officer and firefighters or any
company of firefighters, in the performance of their duties at any fire within
the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.08 PROTECTION AND REPAIR OF APPARATUS.
   (A)   Protection. It is unlawful for any person, without authority, to take,
remove or in any manner disturb, molest or interfere with any hydrants, hose,
hose cart, hook and ladder vehicle, ladder or any apparatus or tools to be used
in connection with the Fire Department.
   (B)   Repair. The Chief shall report to the City Council any necessary
repairs, alterations or improvements needed by the Fire Department, with an
estimate of their probable cost, and shall superintend the making of such
repairs, alterations and improvements, and, in case any apparatus shall become
disabled for immediate use, he or she shall repair the same and report his or
her action to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.09 CALLS OUTSIDE CITY.
   The Fire Department of the city is authorized to make calls outside the city
unless, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, or his or her duly authorized
representative, it is inexpedient to do so because of another fire in the city
or any other physical condition that may exist. Nothing herein shall prohibit
the Chief of the Fire Department of the city, or any duly authorized
representative in charge in the absence of either the Fire Chief or his or her
assistant, from dispatching fire or other emergency equipment outside the
corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-9)
§ 33.10 CONTRACTS FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   The city may enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms,
private corporations or associations, or political subdivisions of the state,
including school districts, for fire protection outside the corporate limits of
the city and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with other
organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-10)
§ 33.11 CHARGES FOR FIRE RUNS.
   (A)   The city may include within the terms of the contract a charge for
each fire run and per hour, calculated from the time the fire apparatus leaves
the station until the apparatus is returned to service as set by the City
Council.
   (B)   Such contracts may also include as a part thereof such annual contract
service charge as the City Council may direct.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-11)
AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 33.25 SOLE PROVIDER SYSTEM.
   (A)   County authority. Hughes County Emergency Medical Services, operated
under the Board of Directors of the Hughes County Emergency Medical Services,
shall henceforth constitute a sole provider system for ambulance service
transports within the city limits.
   (B)   License or contract with county. It shall be unlawful for any person
to engage in the business of ambulance service transport within the city unless
and until such person is licensed therefor or has a contract therefor, from the
Hughes County Commissioners.
   (C)   Service district; exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not
be construed or applied to limit the operation of any emergency medical service
district established and operating pursuant to the Oklahoma Constitution,
Article X, § 9C; additionally, all types of patient transports enumerated under
63 O.S. § 1-2515(F), shall be exempt from this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 583, passed 9-19-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
34.01   Department powers and duties
   
34.02   Police Chief
   
34.03   Emergency duties in other cities
   
34.04   Private property in custody of police
§ 34.01 DEPARTMENT POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Police Chief and other police officers shall constitute
the Police Department and shall have the powers and duties prescribed by 11
O.S. §§ 9-114 and 34-101 et seq., and other provisions of law or by ordinance.
   (B)   Serve warrants, processes and notices. The Chief of Police and other
police officers shall serve all warrants, orders, writs, processes and notices
presented to violators as directed by the Municipal Judge, Mayor, Council,
health officer, city inspector or other officer of the city charged with the
duty of enforcing the laws of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 34.02 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   The City Manager shall appoint the Chief of Police, with the
approval of the City Council, if there is no appointment pursuant to division
(A)(1) of this section.
      (2)   The City Manager may appoint other police officers as the Mayor and
Council deem necessary.
   (B)   Attend court; meetings. The Chief of Police or his or her designee
shall be and remain in attendance at the city court at all times when the same
is in session, and shall attend all meetings of the Council.
   (C)   Appoint additional police officers.
      (1)   The Chief of Police may appoint, by and with the consent and
confirmation of the Mayor and the City Council, such additional peace officers
for the city as the Council may authorize.
      (2)   In cases of emergency and in cases where a meeting of the Council
will not be had in time for Council to give consent and approval to such
appointments before the time at which such additional officers will be needed,
he or she shall have authority to appoint such temporary officers for the city
as shall be needed for the time.
   (D)   Removal. The Chief of Police may be removed for cause, after due
process and an opportunity to be heard, by a three-quarter vote of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. 877A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 34.03 EMERGENCY DUTIES IN OTHER CITIES.
   (A)   Approval given. Approval is hereby given for service of members of the
regular Police Department of the city as police officers of any other city or
town, in an emergency situation, in the state, not more than 50 miles distant
from the city, when such service is requested by the Mayor or Chief of Police
of the city.
   (B)   Request procedure. Requests for service under this section shall be
made by writing or by telephone, or other means of communication to the Mayor
or, in his or her absence, the President of the City Council, who, if he or she
determines that the request can be granted consistently with the continuance of
the proper police protection to the inhabitants of the city, shall direct the
Chief of Police to furnish the number of officers requested and to arrange
their transportation to the requesting municipality.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 34.04 PRIVATE PROPERTY IN CUSTODY OF POLICE.
   (A)   Complete record required. All personal property which comes into the
possession of any police officer, which has been found or stolen or taken off
the person or out of the possession of any prisoner or person suspected of, or
charged with, being a criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person
laying claim thereto, shall be, by the officer securing possession thereof,
delivered into the charge of the Chief of Police. The Chief shall, in a
permanent record book kept for that purpose, make a record sufficient to
identify the property, with the date and circumstances of the receipt thereof,
the name of the person from whom it was taken and the place where it was found;
and the record shall also disclose the subsequent disposal thereof, giving the
date of sale, name and address of the purchaser, and the amount for which it
was sold.
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed property. Any unclaimed personal property,
other than animals, which remains in the possession of the Chief of Police,
unclaimed, or the ownership of which is not to him or her satisfactorily
established, for a period of 30 days, shall be sold, and the proceeds of the
sale shall be paid over to the City Clerk, who shall issue his or her receipt
therefor, and deposit the same to the credit of the General Fund of the city,
except such personal property as in the opinion of the Police Chief can be more
advantageously used by some department or office of the city government. Ten
days before a sale of such unclaimed property, the Chief of Police shall sign
and have posted in a conspicuous place in the City Clerk’s office, where it
will be plainly visible to persons who visit that office, notice of the time,
place, and manner of such sale, and general description of the property to be
sold. However, if, in the opinion of the Police Chief, all or any portion of
the personal property may be more advantageously used in any city department or
office, he or she shall so instruct the Chief of Police in writing, and the
Chief shall thereupon deliver the personal property designated to that
department or office of city government and make a permanent record of its
disposition.
   (C)   Property found by private person. Any personal property found by a
person other than a public official or employee, which is delivered to any
police officer for identification, if not claimed or identified within 30 days,
shall, within ten additional days thereafter, if requested by the finder, be
returned to him or her, and a record of such disposal made thereof. If the
finder does not request return of the property to him or her within such
additional ten days, then the Chief of Police shall sell the property as if it
had been found by a public official or employee, or on instruction by the Mayor
deliver it to some department or office of the city government for its use.
   (D)   Recovery by owner. If any property is sold as herein provided, and the
owner thereof takes and recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the
amount paid therefor shall be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim
being submitted and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4)
CHAPTER 35: PENSION SYSTEMS
Section
   
35.01   Fire pension system
   
35.02   Police pension system
§ 35.01 FIRE PENSION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Local Fire Pension And Retirement Board.
      (1)   There is hereby created a Local Firefighters’ Pension and
Retirement Board composed of the Mayor, the Clerk and three members from the
Fire Department.
      (2) The Board shall have the membership, organization, powers, duties and
functions as prescribed by 11 O.S. §§ 49-103 et seq.
   (B) Compliance with state law. The city’s firefighters’ pension and
retirement system and fund shall be operated in accordance with state law
relating to the fund and system.
   (C) Contributions to Fund.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each paid
member of the Fire Department the amounts which are required by applicable
state law. If the members of the Fire Department, by a majority vote of its
paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the amounts
authorized by this division (C) shall be increased to reflect the amounts
approved by the majority vote. The City Clerk shall deposit monthly to the
Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board the amounts deducted
pursuant to this division (C)(1). Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages
of a Fire Department member shall be made at the time of each payroll. The
deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be able to
ascertain the exact amount which he or she is contributing.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall deposit monthly with the Oklahoma
Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board the amounts of money which are
required by applicable state law for each paid member of the Fire Department.
      (3) For each volunteer member of the Fire Department, the City Clerk
shall deposit yearly with the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement
Board the amounts of money which are required by applicable state law. These
amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as set by the
Oklahoma Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board.
   (D)   Transfer of assets. All assets of the City Firefighters’ Pension and
Retirement Fund shall be transferred to the Oklahoma Firefighters’ Pension and
Retirement Board. Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable
securities and such other specific assets as permitted by the State Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 35.02 POLICE PENSION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Name of system. The system herein established for the purpose of
providing pension retirement allowances and other benefits for police officers,
their spouses and children, shall be designated and known as the “Police
Pension and Retirement System of the City of Holdenville, Oklahoma”, and by
such name all of its business transacted, all of its funds handled, and all of
its cash and securities and other property be held.
   (B) Board of Trustees. There is hereby created a Board of Trustees which
shall have the operation and management of the Police Pension and Retirement
System of the city, which Board of Trustees shall consist of the City Clerk,
and three members of the Police Department of the city, which is designated and
known as the Board of Trustees of the Pension and Retirement System of the
Police Department of the city.
   (C)   State law adopted. The city hereby adopts the provisions of the state
law governing the Oklahoma Police Pension and Retirement System and amendments
thereto for the purpose of providing the police officers of the city with a
retirement program. The city agrees to make contributions to the system in such
amounts as are required by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Deposit of funds in designated depositories
   
36.02   Contractual services defined for purchasing
   
36.03   Purchasing procedure; bid requirements
   
36.04   Sales of supplies or equipment
   
36.05   City officials restricted; conflict of interest
   
36.06   Funding and accounts
   
36.07   Claims and invoices
   
36.08   Warrants, disbursement of funds
   
36.09   Collection fee
Community Development Block Grants; Beneficiary Reporting
   
36.20   Findings
   
36.21   Beneficiary reporting
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS IN DESIGNATED DEPOSITORIES.
   (A)   Use of designated depositories. Funds of the city shall be deposited
as required by law. The City Clerk shall deposit daily all public funds
received by him or her into designated banks and savings and loan associations.
   (B)   Funds secured by unit collateral system. The deposits of the city
shall be secured by the unit collateral system provided by the Oklahoma
Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1)
§ 36.02 CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED FOR PURCHASING.
   (A)   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES, for the purpose of this chapter, shall mean
services performed for the city by persons not in the employment of the city,
and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in
connection with the services under express or implied contract.
   (B)   Contractual services shall include: travel; freight; express; parcel
post; postage; telephone; telegraph; utilities; rents; printing out; binding;
repairs, alterations and maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets and
bridges, and other physical facilities of the city; and other services
performed for the city by persons not in the employment of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-2)
§ 36.03 PURCHASING PROCEDURE; BID REQUIREMENTS.
   (A) Supervision and control. All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment
and contractual services for the offices, departments and agencies of the city
government shall be made by the City Manager, City Council, or pursuant to
authorizations granted by it, and subject to its supervision and control.
   (B)   Prior approval required. Every contract for, or purchase of, supplies,
materials, equipment or contractual services for more than $25,000 shall
require the prior approval of the City Council; and under no circumstances may
such contract or purchase be made without first obtaining the approval of the
City Manager and City Council.
   (C)   Competitive bidding procedure.
      (1)   Before the city makes any purchase of, or contract for, supplies,
materials, equipment or contractual services, except as otherwise provided
below, the purchasing officer shall submit to at least three persons, firms or
corporations dealing in and able to supply the same, or to a smaller number if
there are not three dealing in and able to supply the same, a request for
quotation, or invitation to bid, and specifications, to give them opportunity
to bid; or publish notice of the proposed purchase in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city.
      (2)   The purchasing officer shall favor a person, firm or corporation in
the city when this can be done without additional cost to the city; but the
purchasing officer shall submit requests for quotation to those outside the
city when this may be necessary to secure bids or to create competitive
conditions, or when the purchasing officer thinks that by so doing the
purchasing officer can make a saving for the city; and shall purchase from them
when the purchasing officer can make a saving for the city.
      (3)   All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a
designated time and place.
      (4)   The purchasing officer may repeatedly reject all bids, and again
may submit to the same or other persons, firms or corporations the request for
quotation, or invitation to bid, or again publish notice of the proposed
purchase.
      (5)   The purchasing officer may purchase from the bidder whose bid is
most advantageous to the city, considering price, quality, date of delivery and
so on, and in case of a tie, may purchase from one of those tying, or may
divide the purchase among those tying, always accepting the bid or bids most
advantageous to the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-3) (Ord. 595, passed 8-19-1997; Ord. 611, passed 6-19-2001;
Ord. 885, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 36.04 SALES OF SUPPLIES OR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Obsolete or surplus supplies; competitive bidding.
      (1)   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value
of more than $25,000 may be sold until the City Council shall have declared
them obsolete or surplus.
      (2)   Before the city sells any surplus or obsolete supplies, materials
or equipment, except as otherwise provided below, the city purchasing officer
shall advertise them for sale in a newspaper of general circulation in the city
or give notice in such other manner as the city purchasing officer deems
necessary adequately to reach prospective buyers to give them opportunity to
make necessary bids.
      (3)   All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a
designated time and place, except when the sale is by auction.
      (4)   The city may repeatedly reject all bids and advertise or give
notice again.
      (5)   The city purchasing officer shall sell such supplies, materials or
equipment to the highest responsible bidder.
      (6)   In case of a tie, if necessary, the city purchasing officer shall
cast lots to determine to whom to sell, or the city purchasing officer may
divide the sale among two or more tying, always selling to the highest
responsible bidder or bidders.
   (B)   Allowing sales without competitive bidding. The city may sell the
following without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
      (1)   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total
value does not exceed $25,000 in a single transaction; and
      (2)   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the city for the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-4) (Ord. 595, passed 8-19-1997; Ord. 611, passed 6-19-2001)
Editor’s note:
   In division (B), any prior actions involving $12,500 or less are hereby
ratified and confirmed.
§ 36.05 CITY OFFICIALS RESTRICTED; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No member of the City Council may sell, or furnish for a
consideration, any materials or supplies for use by the city; and any member of
the Council voting for, or consenting to, or being a party to, such contract or
purchase is personally liable as provided by law.
   (B)   The City Council shall not make any contract with any of its members,
or in which any of its members shall be directly or indirectly interested, such
contracts being prohibited by law.
   (C)   No officer of the city may become directly or indirectly interested
individually in any sale, lease, or contract which he or she is authorized to
make, such being prohibited by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-5)
§ 36.06 FUNDING AND ACCOUNTS.
   The revenues and other resources of the city shall be divided into funds as
provided by law and accounted for as provided thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-6)
§ 36.07 CLAIMS AND INVOICES.
   Claims and invoices against the city shall be made and processed as provided
by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-7)
§ 36.08 WARRANTS, DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   Warrants shall be issued and processed, and funds of the city disbursed,
only for legal purposes and in accordance with law.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-8)
§ 36.09 COLLECTION FEE.
   In accordance with 11 O.S. § 22-138, there is hereby imposed an additional
fee of 25% on all debts and accounts receivable, i.e., fines, fees, court
costs, restitution, and other debts owed the city that have been referred to a
private firm for collection.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-9) (Ord. 840, passed 12-2-2014)
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS; BENEFICIARY REPORTING
§ 36.20 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Title 1 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, Public
Law 93-383, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, authorizes the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, as representative of the United
States of America, to grant to the State of Oklahoma funds and administrative
responsibility for the “small cities community development block grant”
program. The Oklahoma Department of Commerce, pursuant to designation by the
Governor as the administering agency of the community development block grant
program for small cities in Oklahoma, is directed to further the purposes of
community development in the state, and is authorized and empowered to accept
funds from the federal government or its agencies and to enter into such
contracts and agreements as are necessary to carry out the functions of the
Department.
   (B)   The city is the recipient of a grant under the community development
block grant program for small cities program, the proceeds of which are to be
utilized to assist Handmade Rainbows and Halos by Amelia, Inc. As a requirement
of a grant awarded to the city, the city must provide beneficiary reporting for
a period of one year after the completion of the grant project.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-1A) (Ord. 584, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 36.21 BENEFICIARY REPORTING.
   Any entity who makes beneficial use of the facilities constructed with the
grant proceeds specified in §
36.20 shall report to the city on a quarterly basis the creation of jobs and
hiring of persons to fill those jobs.
   (A)   Duration and timing of reporting period and reports. The reports
specified in this division (A) shall be delivered to the city on a quarterly
basis by the end of the first month of each calendar quarter for a period of
one year after the completion of the grant project.
   (B)   Contents of reports. Each report required under this section shall
include a listing by job title and description of each job created by the
entity. Each report shall include a listing by name of each person hired to
fill the jobs created and a certification of that person’s income for the one-
year period prior to that person being hired.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-1B) (Ord. 584, passed 1-16-1996)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
Sales Tax
   
37.01   Taxes imposed; effective dates
   
37.02   Sales subject to tax; exemptions
Use Tax
   
37.15   Excise tax on storage; use or other consumption of tangible personal
property levied
   
37.16   Exemptions
   
37.17   Time due; returns; payment
   
37.18   Tax constitutes debt
   
37.19   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor
   
37.20   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of
business within the state or both within and without state; permits
   
37.21   Revoking permits
   
37.22   Remunerative deductions allowed vendors or retailers of other states
   
37.23   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
37.24   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
37.25   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
37.26   Fraudulent returns
   
37.27   Records confidential
   
37.28   Provisions cumulative
   
37.29   Provisions severable
   
37.30   Definitions
   
37.31   Classification of taxpayers
   
37.32   Subsisting state permits
   
37.33   Purposes of revenues
Hotel/Motel Tax
   
37.45   Short title
   
37.46   Definitions
   
37.47   Tax rate
   
37.48   Exemptions
   
37.49   Administration and collection of tax
   
37.50   Use of funds
   
37.51   Records confidential
   
37.52   Fraudulent returns
   
37.53   Amendments
   
37.54   Provisions cumulative
 
   
37.99   Penalty
SALES TAX
§ 37.01 TAXES IMPOSED; EFFECTIVE DATES.
   The following city sales taxes, in the total amount of 5%, shall be imposed
and effective as indicated, unless otherwise extended by a vote of the people.
Said taxes have been approved by a majority of the registered voters of the
city voting on same in elections conducted in the manner prescribed by Oklahoma
Statutes.
   (A)   General Fund.
      (1)   Tax imposed. There is hereby levied an excise tax of 2% upon the
gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
      (2)   Sale defined. A SALE shall include the sale, preparation or service
of ice or nonalcoholic beverages that are sold, prepared or served for the
purpose of being mixed with alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises
where such sale, preparation or service occurs, including, but not exclusive
of, those sales listed in statute.
   (B)   Hospital facilities; water improvement; capital improvements.
      (1)   Tax imposed. There is hereby imposed within the city, an excise tax
of 1% in addition to any and all other excise taxes now in force, to be levied
and assessed upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts derived for all sales to
any person taxable under the sales tax law of the state including, but not
limited to, those sales enumerated in Ordinance 525 of the City of Holdenville,
pertaining to the present municipal sales tax.
      (2)   Purpose of revenues.
         (a)   Effective October 1, 1983, it is hereby declared to be the
purpose of this division (B) to provide revenues to be used by the city’s
public works authority for hospital purposes, including, but not limited to,
the payment of debt service on indebtedness incurred by said authority; costs
of planning and constructing, renovating, expanding and improving the hospital
facilities, including the cost of feasibility studies, land acquisition,
financing expenses and extending utilities thereto; the costs of expenditures
made to improve the hospital facilities and the purchase of equipment and
furnishings; the costs of operation and maintenance of the hospital; and for
other related purposes; and to provide revenues to be used by the city’s Public
Works Authority to finance improvements to the waterworks system operated by
the city’s public works authority. One-half of the revenues collected pursuant
to this division (B) shall go to provide revenues for the above listed hospital
purposes; the remaining one-half of the revenues collected pursuant to this
division (B) shall be used to provide revenues for the above listed waterworks
improvements.
         (b)   Effective October 11, 2005, it is hereby declared to be the
purpose of this division (B) and the excise tax levied hereunder to provide
revenues to be used by the city, or any public trust having the city as
beneficiary thereof, for the purpose of operating, maintaining, purchasing,
constructing, and equipping capital improvements, for the use and benefit of
the city and any public trust having the city as beneficiary thereof and/or for
the payment of debt service in connection with obligations issued to finance
said capital improvements.
      (3)   Effective date. This division (B) shall become and be effective on
and after October 1, 1983, subject to approval of a majority of the registered
voters of the city, voting on same in the manner prescribed by 11 O.S. §§ 16-
101 to 16-113, inclusive.
      (4)   Termination of tax.
         (a)   All of the said revenues pledged pursuant to this division (B)
for hospital improvements shall cease to be used for hospital improvements once
indebtedness relating to the hospital improvements has been retired, said
revenues shall at that time be combined with the revenues already pledged to
the financing of waterworks improvements to help retire all outstanding
indebtedness incurred with respect thereto; or, in the event certain
indebtedness relating to the waterworks improvements is retired prior to the
indebtedness relating to the hospital improvements, then said revenues pledged
pursuant to this division (B) for waterworks improvements shall cease to be
used for waterworks improvements and shall at that time be combined with the
revenues already pledged to the hospital improvements to help retire all
outstanding indebtedness incurred thereto.
         (b)   The provisions of this division (B) and the collection of the
excise tax referenced herein shall become effective on and after October 11,
2005, for the purposes stated in division (B)(2)(b) of this section subject to
approval by a majority of the qualified electors of the city, voting on the
same in the manner prescribed by law. The provisions of this division (B) and
the collection of the excise tax referenced herein shall have no stated
termination date.
   (C)   Hospital District.
      (1)   Tax imposed. There is hereby imposed an excise tax of 1% (in
addition to any and all other excise taxes now in force) to be levied upon the
gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
      (2)   Purpose of revenues. It is hereby declared to be the purpose of
this division (C) to provide revenues to be used to further any lawful purpose
of the hospital owned by the city, and leased to the Holdenville Hospital
Authority which is currently doing business as Holdenville General Hospital,
including, but not limited to, the support, capital improvements for, and
operation and maintenance of said hospital and for no other purposes.
      (3)   Effective date. The provisions of this division (C) shall become
affective on and after August 24, 2004, subject to approval of a majority of
the qualified electors of the city voting on the same in the manner prescribed
by law.
   (D)   Water system.
      (1)   Tax imposed. There is hereby imposed an excise tax of 1% (in
addition to any and all other excise taxes now in force) to be levied upon the
gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
      (2)   Purpose of revenues. It is hereby declared to be the purpose of
this division (D) and the excise tax levied hereunder to provide revenues for
the purpose of purchasing, constructing, and equipping water system
improvements to include water supply, reservoir and dam facilities, and pumping
and storage facilities, for the use and benefit of the city and any public
trust having the city as beneficiary thereof and/or for the payment of debt
service in connection with obligations issued to finance said water system
improvements.
      (3)   Effective date. The provisions of this division (D) and the
collection of the excise tax referenced herein shall become effective on and
after July 1, 2005, subject to approval by a majority of the qualified electors
of the city, voting on the same in the manner prescribed by law.
      (4)   Termination of tax. The provisions of this division (D) and the
collection of the excise tax referenced herein shall have no termination date.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 477, passed - -; Ord. 525, passed - -; Ord. 543,
passed 6-21-1983; Ord. 553, passed 6-18-1985; Ord. 614, passed 8-3-2004; Ord.
617, passed 12-6-2004; Ord. 619, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 37.02 SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS.
   The city sales taxes shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross
proceeds of such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from
such taxes shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
USE TAX
§ 37.15 EXCISE TAX ON STORAGE; USE OR OTHER CONSUMPTION OF TANGIBLE PERSONAL
PROPERTY LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the city, tangible, personal property
purchased or brought into this city from outside the state, an excise tax on
the storage, use or otherwise consuming within the municipality of such
property at the rate of 5% of the purchase price of such property. Such tax
shall be paid by every person storing, using, or otherwise consuming, within
the municipality, tangible, personal property purchased or brought into the
municipality. The additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of
importation or storage of the property within the municipality and shall be
assessed to only property purchased outside the state; provided that, the tax
levied herein shall not be levied against tangible, personal property intended
solely for use outside the municipality, but which is stored in the
municipality pending shipment outside the municipality or which is temporarily
retained in the maintenance of other service. Any person liable for payment of
the use tax authorized herein, may deduct from such use tax any county or
municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or services; provided that
the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the
taxes imposed by the municipality had been levied on the sale of such goods or
services.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-1) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.16 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality of a nonresident individual visiting in this
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code and this subchapter, has been paid by the person using such tangible,
personal property in the municipality, whether such tax was levied under the
laws of the state or some other state, municipality, or county of the United
States. If any article of tangible personal property has already been subjected
to a tax law by the state or any other state or county in respect to its sale
or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code and the city, and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use
was computed; provided, that, no credit shall be given for taxes paid in
another state, municipality, or county does not grant like credit for taxes
paid in the state and the municipality;
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the
municipality, and machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the
operation of manufacturing plants already established in the municipality which
machinery and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the
process of manufacturing property subject to the taxation under the Sales Tax
Code of the state. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and
generally recognized as such;
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under §§
37.01 and
37.02 of this subchapter;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of this municipality where such personal property is for such individual’s
personal use or enjoyment;
   (G)   In respect to the sum of any article of tangible, personal property
used, or to be used, by commercial airlines or railroads; or
   (H)   In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and brought into
this municipality for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-2) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.17 TIME DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENT.
   The tax levied by this subchapter is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the Use Tax
Code of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-3) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.18 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty or interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as with any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-4) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.19 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR.
   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without the state, and making sales of tangible, personal property from a place
of business outside this state for use in the city, shall, at the time of
making such sales, collect the use tax levied by this subchapter from the
purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form
prescribed by the Oklahoma Tax Commission, if said Tax Commission shall, by
regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the
Oklahoma Tax Commission the name and address of all his or her agents operating
in this municipality and location of any and all distribution or sales houses
or offices or other places of business in this municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-5) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.20 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR NOT MAINTAINING A PLACE OF
BUSINESS WITHIN THE STATE OR BOTH WITHIN AND WITHOUT STATE; PERMITS.
   The Oklahoma Tax Commission may, at its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the use tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor
not maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible, personal property for use in this municipality, and by the out of
state place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of
businesses both within and without Oklahoma and making sales of tangible,
personal property at such out of state place of business locations for use in
this municipality. Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a
permit to collect such taxes, by said Tax Commission in such manner and subject
to such regulations and agreements, as it shall prescribe. When so authorized,
it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the use tax upon all
tangible, personal property sold to his or her knowledge for use within this
municipality. Such authority and permit may be canceled when, at any time, said
Tax Commission considers that such use tax can more effectively be collected
from the person using such property in this municipality; provided, however,
delivery to the purchaser within this municipality by the retailer or vendor in
such retailer’s or vendor’s vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common
carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable
municipal sales tax at the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and
reported under the taxpayer’s sales tax permit number accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-6) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.21 REVOKING PERMITS.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, authorized to collect the use tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter or
the Oklahoma Use Tax Code or any order, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma
Tax § 1408, by order, revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued to such
retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a corporation
authorized to do business in this state may, after the notice and hearing above
provided, cancel said corporation’s license to do business in this state and
shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied with the
obligations under this subchapter, the Oklahoma Use Tax Code, or any order,
rules or regulations of the Oklahoma Tax Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-7) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.22 REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES.
   Returns and remittances of the use tax herein levied and collected shall be
made to the Oklahoma Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and
amount prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code; remittances of use taxes collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-8) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.23 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the use tax levied by this subchapter; provided, that, the failure or
refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and
remittances of use tax in the time and manner required by this subchapter shall
cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for
a period of five days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to
any discount allowed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-9) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.24 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the use tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220. To
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said §
220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-10) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.25 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the municipal use tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time provided for administration
of the state use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227; to accomplish the purpose
of this section the applicable provisions of said § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-11) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.26 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this subchapter, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any use tax, or portion thereof, rightfully due
under this subchapter, shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof the
offending taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not more than $200. Each day
of noncompliance with this subchapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-12) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.27 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipal use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, of the
State Use Tax Code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference
and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the municipal use
tax as if herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-13) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.28 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxpaying provisions of municipal resolutions and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-14) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.29 PROVISIONS SEVERABLE.
   The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be severable, and if any
section, paragraph, sentence or clause of this subchapter is for any reason
held invalid or inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect any other section, paragraph, sentence or clause
hereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-15) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.30 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms, and phrases contained in the Oklahoma Tax
Code, 68 O.S. § 1401, 1991 and 1998 supplement, are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this subchapter; in addition, the following words and terms
shall be defined as follows.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Holdenville.
   TAX COLLECTOR. As used herein means the Oklahoma Tax Commission.
   TRANSACTION. Sale.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-16) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.31 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for the purposes of the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-17) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.32 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional municipal permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-18) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
§ 37.33 PURPOSES OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the
city, and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the City
Council for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended and
authorized.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-19) (Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016)
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
§ 37.45 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as “City of Holdenville Hotel/Motel
Room Tax Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-1) (Ord. 860, passed 9-12-2018)
§ 37.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Holdenville, Oklahoma.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Holdenville, Oklahoma.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. Any building or buildings, structures, trailer or other
facility in which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping
accommodations in which five or more rooms are used for the accommodation of
such guests whether such rooms are in one or several structures. The term shall
include hotels, apartment hotels, motels, tourist homes, houses or courts,
lodging houses, inns, rooming houses, trailer houses, trailer motels, dormitory
space where bed space is rented to individuals or groups, apartments not
occupied by “permanent residents”, and all other facilities where rooms or
sleeping facilities or space are furnished for a consideration. The term shall
not include hospitals, sanatoriums or nursing homes, nor shall this term affect
“permanent resident” facilities as defined in this section for residents for
terms in excess of 30 days.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of
any room or rooms in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the
furnishings or to the services and accommodation accompanying the use and
possessions of the room or rooms.
   OCCUPANT. A person, who for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the
right to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease,
concession, permit, right to access, license to use, or other agreement.
   OPERATOR. Any and all persons operating a hotel(s) or motel(s) in this city,
including, but not limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee,
mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such
hotel or motel.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any occupant who has or shall have the right of
occupancy of any room or rooms in a hotel for 30 or more consecutive days
during the current calendar year or preceding year.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
   RETURN. Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
   ROOM. Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel which
is available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other than a
place of assembly. As used herein, PLACE OF ASSEMBLY means a room or space
which is capable of being occupied by 75 or more persons and which is used for
educational, recreational or amusement purposes and shall include: dance halls,
cabarets, nightclubs, restaurants, any room or space for public or private
banquets, feasts, social, card parties or weddings, lodge and meeting halls or
rooms, skating rinks, gymnasiums, swimming pools, billiard, bowling and table
tennis rooms, halls or rooms used for public or private catering purposes,
funeral parlors, markets, recreational rooms, concert halls, broadcasting
studios, and all other places of similar type of occupancy.
   TAX. The tax levied pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-2) (Ord. 860, passed 9-12-2018)
§ 37.47 TAX RATE.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 5% upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all rent received for every occupancy of a room or rooms
in a hotel in this city except that the tax shall not be imposed where the rent
is less than the rate of $3 per day.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-3) (Ord. 860, passed 9-12-2018)
§ 37.48 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following shall be exempt from the tax levied in this subchapter:
      (1)   Permanent residents;
      (2)   The United States government or any agency or division thereof;
      (3)   The State of Oklahoma or any political subdivision thereof; and
      (4)   Any organization, corporation or association organized and operated
exclusively for religious, charitable, philanthropic or educational purposes
provided that its primary purpose is not carrying on a trade or business for
profit.
   (B)   Anyone claiming to be exempt from the tax must obtain a certification
from the City Clerk that the organization, association or corporation with
which he or she is affiliated is exempt from the tax. Prior to issuing such a
certificate, the City Clerk shall require a certification from the said
organization, association or corporation that the occupant is its agent,
representative or employee and that his or her occupancy of the room is
required in connection with the affairs of said organization, and upon such
proof a refund may be obtained from the respective operator. The certificate
shall be available from each operator.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-4) (Ord. 860, passed 9-12-2018)
§ 37.49 ADMINISTRATION AND COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   Tax to be separately designated on bills. The operator shall
separately designate, charge and show the tax on all bills, statements,
receipts or any other evidence of charges or payment of rent for occupancy
issued or delivered by the operator.
   (B)   Operator responsible for collection. Each operator shall be solely
responsible for the collection of the tax from the occupant and shall be liable
to the city for the tax.
   (C)   Records to be kept. Every operator shall keep records of every
occupancy and of all rent paid, charged, or due thereon and of the tax payable
thereon in such forms as the City Clerk may require. Such records shall be
available for inspection and examination at any time upon demand by the City
Clerk, or a duly authorized agent or employee of the city and shall be
preserved for a period of three years from the date thereof except that the
City Clerk may consent to their destruction within that period or may require
that they be kept longer.
   (D)   Returns.
      (1)   Every operator shall file with the City Clerk a return of occupancy
and of rents and of the taxes payable thereon for the period ending June 30,
September 30, December 31 and March 31 of each year from the effective date
hereof.
      (2)   The City Clerk may permit or require returns to be made for shorter
or longer periods and upon different dates. The form of return shall be
prescribed by the City Clerk and shall contain such information as the City
Clerk may deem necessary for the proper administration of this subchapter. The
City Clerk may require amended returns to be filed within 20 days after notice
and to contain the information specified in the notice.
   (E)   Payment of tax. At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of
rents, each operator shall pay to the city the taxes imposed by this subchapter
upon the rents included in such return, as well as all other monies collected
by the operator acting or purporting to act under the provisions of this
subchapter. All the taxes for the period for which a return is required to be
filed shall be due from the operator and payable to the city on or before the
date fixed for the filing of the return for such period without regard to
whether a return is filed or whether the return which is filed correctly shows
the amount of rents and the taxes due thereon.
   (F)   Assessment and determination of tax. If a return required by this
subchapter is not filed, or if a return when filed is incorrect or
insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the City Clerk from
such information as may be obtainable and, if necessary, the tax may be
estimated on the basis of external indices, such as number of rooms, location,
scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations and services, number
of employees, or other factors; provided, however, such assessment shall in no
event exceed the amount of tax that was due and payable and such assessment
procedure shall not be performed in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Written
notice of such assessment shall be given to the person liable for the
collection and payment of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and
irrevocably fix and determine the tax unless the person against whom it is
assessed, shall apply in writing to the City Council or its designee for a
hearing or unless the City Clerk shall reassess the same. After such hearing,
the City Council or its designee shall give written notice of its determination
to the person against whom the tax is assessed, and such determination shall be
final.
   (G)   Refunds.
      (1)   Refund procedure. The city shall refund or credit any tax
erroneously collected if written application to the City Clerk for such refund
shall be made within two years from the date of payment thereof. For like
causes, and in the same period, a refund may be so made upon the initiative and
the order of the City Clerk. Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor
shall be stated in writing. Such application may also be made by the person who
has collected and paid such tax to the city providing that the application is
made within two years of the payment of the occupant to the operator, but no
refund of money shall be made to the operator until the amount for which the
application for refund is made has been paid to the occupant. The City Clerk in
lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow credit therefor on payment
due from the applicant.
      (2)   Determination and hearing. Upon application for a refund the City
Clerk may receive evidence with respect thereto and conduct an investigation.
After making a determination as to the refund, the City Clerk shall give notice
thereof to the applicant. Such determination shall be final unless the
applicant within 90 days after such notice shall apply in writing to the City
Council or its designee for a hearing. After such hearing, the City Council or
its designee shall give written notice of its decision to the applicant.
   (H)   Notices. Notices provided for under this subchapter shall be deemed to
have been given when such notice has been delivered personally to the operator
or deposited in the United States mail to the last known address of the
operator.
   (I)   Remedies exclusive. The remedies provided in this subchapter shall be
exclusive remedies available to any person for the review of tax liability
imposed by this subchapter.
   (J)   General powers of the City Clerk. In addition to all other powers
granted to the City Clerk, the City Clerk is hereby authorized and empowered:
      (1)   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
carrying out of this subchapter for the purposes thereof;
      (2)   To extend for cause shown the time for filing return for the period
not exceeding 60 days; and for cause shown to waive, remit or reduce penalties
or interest;
      (3)   To delegate the functions of the City Clerk hereunder to an
assistant or other employee or employees of the city;
      (4)   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the taxes
imposed by this subchapter except the rate of tax; and
      (5)   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable
rents.
   (K)   Administration of oaths and compelling testimony. The City Clerk, or
designated representative, shall have the power to administer oaths and take
affidavits in relation to any matter or proceeding in the exercise of the
powers and duties under this subchapter. The City Clerk shall have the power to
subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the production of books,
papers and documents to secure information pertinent to the performance of
duties hereunder and all the enforcement of this subchapter and to examine them
in relation thereto.
   (L)   Collection permits. Every operator shall apply for a collection permit
from the City Clerk in a form prescribed by said City Clerk within ten days
after the effective date of this subchapter, or in the case of operators
commencing business or opening new hotels after such effective dates, within
three days after such commencement or opening. The City Clerk shall, within
five days after such application, issue, without charge, to each operator a
collection permit empowering such operator to collect the tax from the occupant
and duplicates thereof for each additional hotel. Each collection permit or
duplicate shall state the hotel or motel to which it is applicable. Such
collection permits shall be permanently displayed by the operator in such
manner that it may be seen and come to the notice of all occupants and persons
seeking occupancy. Said permits shall be nonassignable and nontransferable and
shall be surrendered immediately to the City Clerk upon the cessation of
business at the hotel named, or upon its sale, lease, assignment or transfer.
   (M)   Interest. If any tax levied by this subchapter becomes delinquent, the
person responsible and liable for such tax shall pay interest on such unpaid
tax at the rate of 1.5% per month on the unpaid balance from the date of
delinquency.
   (N)   Delinquent taxes. The tax levied by this subchapter shall be due and
payable at the time filing of the returns provided for in this subchapter is
required. All taxes not paid within five days from the time they become due,
shall be delinquent.
   (O)   Discount. In order to remunerate an operator for keeping tax records,
filing reports, and remitting the tax when due, a 3% discount shall be allowed
upon all taxes paid prior to the time they become delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-5) (Ord. 860, passed 9-12-2018)
§ 37.50 USE OF FUNDS.
   It hereby is declared to be the purpose of the revenues provided by the 5%
hotel/motel tax levied by this subchapter to provide revenues for economic
development, chamber-tourism, park-lake development, city employee raises, and
city streets, in equal shares, within the city. All taxes collected pursuant to
the provisions of this subchapter shall be deposited into the city’s General
Fund. The City Council shall annually appropriate said funds to support the
said governmental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-6) (Ord. 860, passed 9-12-2018)
§ 37.51 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the hotel/motel room tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the Sales
Tax Law of the state, and each subsection thereof is hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the
city’s hotel/motel room tax as if herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-7) (Ord. 860, passed 9-12-2018)
§ 37.52 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   The willful failure or refusal of any operator to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this subchapter shall be an offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-8) (Ord. 860, passed 9-12-2018) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.53 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the city, by their approval of this subchapter at the election
herein provided, hereby authorize the City Council by ordinances duly enacted
to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method
and manner of administration and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary
or proper for efficiency and fairness except that the rate of the tax herein
provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the
city as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-9) (Ord. 860, passed 9-12-2018)
§ 37.54 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-10) (Ord. 860, passed 9-12-2018)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
37.15 through
37.33 shall be liable for a fine not to exceed $200 per day, or the maximum
legal limit.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-20)
   (C)   Upon conviction of a violation of §
37.52, the offending operator shall be subject to a fine of not more than $100,
including costs, or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days or by both such
fine or imprisonment; each day is to be considered a separate offense to be
charged severally.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-8)
(Ord. 849, passed 3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016; Ord. 860, passed 9-12-2018)
CHAPTER 38: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
38.01   Definitions
   
38.02   Organization; jurisdiction of court
   
38.03   Judge of the court
   
38.04   Chief of Police
   
38.05   Clerk of the Court
   
38.06   Prosecuting attorney
   
38.07   Rules of court
   
38.08   Style of prosecutions; complaints
   
38.09   Traffic ordinance violations; citation; arrest
   
38.10   Traffic Violations Bureau
   
38.11   Arrests; bail
   
38.12   Arraignment and pleadings by defendant
   
38.13   Jury trials
   
38.14   Witness fees
   
38.15   Suspension of sentence
   
38.16   Imprisonment
   
38.17   Fines and costs
   
38.18   Deduction from fines for Training Fund
   
38.19   Failure to obey citation to appear
 
   
38.99   Penalty
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
   CITY. The City of Holdenville, Hughes County, Oklahoma.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk, including any deputy or member of the office
staff of the City Clerk while performing duties of the City Clerk’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Criminal Court of the City of Holdenville.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the City of Holdenville.
   JUDGE. The judge of the Municipal Criminal Court, including any acting judge
or alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and
this chapter.
   MUNICIPALITY or THIS MUNICIPALITY. The City of Holdenville, Hughes County,
Oklahoma.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The District Court Judicial District of the State of
Oklahoma wherein the government of this municipality is situated.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1)
§ 38.02 ORGANIZATION; JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   (A)   Organization. This chapter shall govern the organization and operation
of the Municipal Criminal Court of the city, as put into operation by
resolution duly passed on February 4, 1969, and filed in accordance with law as
authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 and 27-102. To the extent of conflict between
any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any ordinance of the city,
the provisions of this chapter shall control. The court shall be operative on
and after February 12, 1969.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear
and determine all prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the city
is charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in
accordance with applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2)
§ 38.03 JUDGE OF THE COURT.
   (A)   Qualifications. There shall be one judge of the court.
      (1)   A judge shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in Oklahoma.
      (2)   A judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of
law in other courts, but he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent
with his or her duties as judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or
are connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the court, pending therein
or which might become the subject of proceedings therein.
      (3)   He or she must be a resident of the city or maintain a law office
therein.
      (4)   He or she may serve as judge of other municipal courts, if such
service may be accomplished consistently with his or her duties as judge of
this court, with the consent of the Mayor and Council.
      (5)   If no licensed attorney residing within Hughes County is willing to
accept appointment as judge, a resident of the city, of the age of 25 years or
older, possessed of good moral character, may be appointed judge.
   (B)   Term of office. The official term of the judge shall be two years
expiring on the third Tuesday in May in each odd numbered year. Each judge,
unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall serve until his or her successor
is appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Alternate judge.
      (1)   There shall be appointed for each judge of the court an alternate
judge possessed of the same qualifications as the judge.
      (2)   His or her appointment shall be for the same term and made in the
same manner as the judge.
      (3)   He or she shall sit as acting judge of the court in any case if the
judge is:
         (a)   Absent from the court;
         (b)   Unable to act as judge; or
         (c)   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case.
   (D)   Acting judge. If at any time there is no judge or alternate judge,
duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as judge, the Mayor shall
appoint some person, possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for
the judge, who shall preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition
of pending matters until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be
available.
   (E)   Appointment of judge and alternate judge. Judges and alternate judges
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the governing body. A
proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the governing body at the
next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to the day upon which the
appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon at the next regularly
scheduled meeting. The governing body may decide upon the proposed appointment
by a majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure of decision upon a
proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly
scheduled meeting of the governing body unless the Mayor, in writing, withdraws
the proposed appointment.
   (F)   Salary and payments to judges. A judge, other than an alternate judge
or an acting judge, shall receive a salary as set by the governing body from
time to time paid in the same manner as the salaries of other officials of the
city.
   (G)   Removal of judge; hearing.
      (1)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing
body for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of this state for
the removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by
the filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
         (a)   The Mayor; or
         (b)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of the city. Verification
of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by one or more of
the petitioners.
      (2)   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter and
shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten days before the hearing. At the hearing,
the judge shall be entitled to:
         (a)   Representation by counsel;
         (b)   To present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against
him or her; and
         (c)   Have all evidence against him or her presented in open hearing.
      (3)   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the Oklahoma
Administrative Procedures Act governing individual proceedings shall govern
removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon
individual votes, by a majority of all members of the governing body, in favor
of such removal.
   (H)   Vacancy in office of judge.
      (1)   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         (a)   Dies;
         (b)   Resigns;
         (c)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         (d)   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed
finally in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
      (2)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as
an original appointment is made.
   (I)   Disqualification of judge. In prosecutions before the court, no change
of venue shall be allowed; but the judge before whom the case is pending may
certify his or her disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from
sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of
record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an alternate
or acting judge appointed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 75 O.S. §§ 309 through 317
§ 38.04 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his or her
official title, to the Chief of Police of the city, who shall be the principal
officer of the court.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)
§ 38.05 CLERK OF THE COURT.
   (A)   Duties. The Clerk of the Court shall have the following duties.
      (1)   He or she shall assist the judge in recording the proceedings of
the court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers.
      (2)   He or she shall administer oaths required in proceedings before the
court.
      (3)   He or she shall enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in
the dockets of the court.
      (4)   He or she shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the
proceedings of the court as the judge shall direct.
      (5)   He or she shall receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines,
deposits, and sums of money payable to the court.
      (6)   He or she shall pay to the City Clerk all money so received by him
or her, except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be
disbursed by him or her for special purposes. All money paid to the City Clerk
shall be placed in the General Fund of the city, or in such other funds as the
governing body may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the city
government in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in
which it is placed.
   (B)   Bond of Court Clerk. The Court Clerk shall give bond, in the form
provided by 11 O.S. § 27-111, in a sum to be determined by the governing body.
When executed, the bond shall be submitted to the governing body for approval.
When approved, it shall be filed with the City Clerk and retained in the
municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-5)
§ 38.06 PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   The attorney for the city, or his or her duly designated assistant, shall be
the prosecuting officer of the court. He or she shall also prosecute all
alleged violations of the ordinances of the city. He or she shall be
authorized, in his or her discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal,
proceedings in error and review from this court to any other court of the
state, and to represent the city in all proceedings arising out of matters in
this court.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-6)
§ 38.07 RULES OF COURT.
   (A)   Rules prescribed. The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the
laws of the state and with the ordinances of the city, for the proper conduct
of the business of the court.
   (B)   Enforcement of rules. Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments
made by the judge or by the court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or
imprison for contempt committed as to him or her while holding court, or
committed against process issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the
same extent as the district courts of this state.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-7)
§ 38.08 STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS; COMPLAINTS.
   All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of the city shall be styled
“The City of Holdenville, Oklahoma vs. (naming defendant or defendants)”.
Except as provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of
a written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint,
and setting forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing by the
City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-8)
§ 38.09 TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; CITATION; ARREST.
   (A)   Citation issuance. If a police officer observes facts which he or she
believes constitute a violation of the traffic ordinances of the city,
committed by a resident thereof, in lieu of arresting such a person, he or she
may take his or her name, address, operator’s license number, and registered
license number of the motor vehicle involved and any other pertinent and
necessary information and may issue him or her in writing in form prescribed by
the City Manager and City Council or his or her duly designated delegate, a
traffic citation embracing the above information, and also stating the traffic
violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him or her to answer to the
charge against him or her at a time, not later than the date specified in the
citation. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator, endorsed on the citation to answer as specified, may then release the
person from custody. If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer
as prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Police officer course of action. If the alleged traffic violation is
committed by a nonresident or resident of the city, the police officer may:
      (1)   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set
out in division (A) of this section, pending his or her appearance on a day
certain in court, as specified in the citation;
      (2)   Take the person into custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his or her release in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon
giving his or her written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in
division (A) of this section, the person shall be released from custody.
   (C)   Parking violations; citation placed on vehicle. If the alleged offense
be a violation of an ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of
vehicles, including any regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the
operator be not present, the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a
place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the operator, a citation
conforming substantially to that prescribed in divisions (A) or (B) of this
section, with such variation as the circumstances require; the operator of this
vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the citation as if it
had been issued to him or her personally under divisions (A) or (B) of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-9)
§ 38.10 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Bureau established; payment of fine. A Traffic Violations Bureau
hereby may be established as a division of the office of the Clerk of the
Court, to be administered by the Clerk, or by subordinates designated by him or
her for that purpose. Persons who are cited for violation of one of the traffic
regulatory ordinances of the city may elect to pay a fine in the Traffic
Violations Bureau according to the schedule of fines to be determined by the
governing body, other than:
      (1)   A second traffic offense within a 12-month period;
      (2)   A driver’s license offense;
      (3)   An offense in which a personal injury occurs; or
      (4)   An offense punishable by a fine of more than $250.
   (B)   Adoption of rules. The court may adopt rules to carry into effect this
section. Payment of a fine under this section shall constitute a final
determination of cause against the defendant. If a defendant who has elected to
pay a fine under this section fails to do so, prosecution shall proceed under
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-10)
§ 38.11 ARRESTS; BAIL.
   (A)   Summons for arrest.
      (1)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance,
the judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless
the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and
has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person
charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known, stating
the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her notice to
answer the charge in the court on a certain day, five days (Sundays and
holidays excepted) after the summons is served upon him or her, and including
such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
      (2)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as provided
by this chapter.
   (B)   Form of arrest warrant.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the city, upon
the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the attorney of the
city or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in
substantially the following form:
The City of Holdenville, Oklahoma, to the Chief of Police of the Municipal
Court of Holdenville, Oklahoma.
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense of (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been
committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor
forthwith to arrest the above named defendant and bring
                               before me, at the municipal courtroom,
Witness my hand this        day of              , 20     .
                                                 
         Judge of the Municipal Court
         Holdenville, Oklahoma
      (2)   It is the duty of the Police Chief, personally, or through a duly
constituted member of the police force of the city, or through any other person
lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as possible.
   (C)   Procedures for bail or bond. Upon arrest, or upon appearance without
arrest in response to citation or summons, or at any time before trial, before
or after arraignment, the defendant shall be eligible to be released upon
giving bail for his or her appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by
this chapter or the judge, who shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for
the receipt of bail. In case of arrests made at night or under other conditions
of emergency or when the judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the
Chief of Police, or his or her designated representative, to accept a temporary
cash bond of not less than $10 nor more than the maximum monetary penalty
provided by ordinance for the offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-11)
§ 38.12 ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT.
   Upon making his or her appearance before the court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The judge, or the attorney of the city shall read the complaint to
the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights, including the
right of trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction,
and ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty. If the
defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to judgment and sentence or may
continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and
the case is not for jury trial, the court may proceed to try the case, or may
set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-12)
§ 38.13 JURY TRIALS.
   (A)   Trials and judgments.
      (1)   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may
obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
      (2)   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
      (3)   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, or by the
statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by
the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective.
      (4)   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after the trial, the
court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
      (5)   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the
judge who shall cause it to be entered in his or her docket.
      (6)   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
      (7)   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he or
she be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one day’s
imprisonment for each $10 of fine.
   (B)   Trial by jury and waiver.
      (1)   In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances punishable by fine
of more than $250, including costs, or by imprisonment, or by both fine and
imprisonment, trial shall be by jury, unless waived by the defendant. If trial
by jury is waived, trial shall be to the court.
      (2)   At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked whether he or she
demands or waives trial by jury. His or her election shall be recorded in the
minutes of the arraignment and entered on the docket of the court respecting
proceedings in the case.
      (3)   An election waiving jury trial, made at arraignment, may be changed
by the defendant at any time prior to the day for which trial by the court is
set. An election demanding jury trial may be changed at any time prior to the
commencement of proceedings to impanel the jury for the trial, but if that
change occurs after the case has been set for jury trial, it may not thereafter
be rechanged so as again to demand trial by jury.
   (C)   Jurors and jury trial procedures.
      (1)   Whenever a calendar has been made up for the trial of cases by
jury, the judge shall request, in writing, the presiding judge of the district
court for this judicial district to cause the names of a stated number of
jurors, deemed sufficient to dispose of the cases on the calendar, to be drawn
from the jury wheel in accordance with the governing statutes of the state, and
to be certified by the Clerk of the District Court to the judge of the
municipal court. The request shall be made in time for the list to be certified
and the jurors to be summoned legally before the trial of the calendar begins.
If it is anticipated that the completion of the calendar will require more than
two weeks, the request for jurors shall specify the number required for each
two-week period, as provided by law for the drawing of jurors for the district
court. Additional drawing of other names also may be requested by the judge,
when necessary, in accordance with the law for such additional drawings in the
district court. If, in the future, provisions of the law respecting the drawing
of jury lists for the district court are changed, the judge shall take such
steps, in requesting jury lists for the court, as are necessary to comply with
the state law.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the jury list, the Clerk of the Court shall cause a
summons substantially in the following form to be issued and served upon each
person on the list:
      STATE OF OKLAHOMA   )
                        ) SS
      COUNTY OF HUGHES   )
TO                               , GREETINGS: You hereby are summoned to appear
in the Municipal Court for the City of Holdenville, Oklahoma, to be held at
                         on the        day of          20    , at the hour of
           o’clock      .M., to serve as a juror in said court, and to continue
in such service until discharged by the court.
Hereof fail not, under penalty of law.
Issued under the authority of said court, this            day of
                 , 20     .
                                                         
         Clerk of the Municipal Court of the
         City of Holdenville, Oklahoma
      (3)   Service shall be made, as the judge may prescribe by rule or direct
by order, either in person upon the juror by the Chief of Police or by any
member of the police force of the city, or by the Clerk of the Court, through
certified mail, directed to the juror at his or her address as given in the
jury list with request for a personally signed return receipt. In any
proceeding wherein service of summons by mail is in issue, evidence of the due
mailing of the summons by the Clerk or a member of his or her staff and the
presentation of an official postal return receipt purportedly signed by the
addressee shall be prima facie evidence that the summons was duly received by
the addressee and therefore, that he or she was properly served therewith.
      (4)   A jury in the court shall consist of six jurors, good and lawful
men or women, citizens of the county of Hughes possessing the qualifications of
jurors in district court.
      (5)   After the jurors are sworn, they must sit together and hear the
proofs and oral arguments of the parties, which must be delivered in public and
in the presence of the defendant.
      (6)   A verdict of the jury may be rendered by the vote of five jurors.
      (7)   In all actions tried before a jury, the judge shall determine all
questions of law, including questions as to the introduction of evidence
arising during the trial. He or she also shall instruct the jury as to the law.
      (8)   The verdict of the jury, in all cases, must be general. When the
jury has arrived at its verdict, it must deliver the verdict publicly to the
court. The judge must enter the verdict in the docket or cause it to be so
entered.
      (9)   The jury must not be discharged after the cause is submitted to it
until a verdict is rendered, unless the judge, for good cause, discharges it
sooner, in which event the court may proceed again to trial, and so on, until a
verdict is rendered.
   (D)   Compensation of jurors. Jurors shall receive for their services a fee
as set by the city per day, plus mileage for each mile necessarily traveled by
the most direct route in going to and from the court from their respective
places of residence. The claims for such compensation shall show the location
of the juror’s residence and the route and miles traveled, and must be verified
as other claims against the city are verified. Jurors shall be paid out of the
general funds of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-13)
§ 38.14 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Fee plus mileage. Witnesses in any proceeding in the court other than
the police officers or peace officers shall be entitled to a fee as set by the
city per each day of attendance, plus mileage for each mile actually and
necessarily traveled in going to and returning from the place of attendance if
their residence is outside the limits of the city. However, no witness shall
receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or
the same travel.
   (B)   Deposit from defendant; exception.
      (1)   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the
Clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for
each witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an
indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
         (a)   The names of no more than three witnesses;
         (b)   That the defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable
to provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
         (c)   That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
         (d)   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her
proper defense.
      (2)   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-14)
§ 38.15 SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE.
   After conviction and sentence, the judge may suspend sentence, in accordance
with the provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by
11 O.S. §§ 27-123 and 27-124.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-15)
§ 38.16 IMPRISONMENT.
   (A)   Certified judgment of imprisonment. If, after conviction, judgment of
imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof, certified by the Clerk, shall be
delivered to the Chief of Police, the Sheriff of the county or other
appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution
of the sentence.
   (B)   Working during imprisonment.
      (1)   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty
may be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public streets,
avenues, alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or property. For
each day of such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving two days of
imprisonment under his or her sentence.
      (2)   The Chief of Police, subject to the direction of the Mayor, shall
direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the department in charge
of the place where the work is to be performed, himself or herself, or by some
person designated by him or her, shall oversee the work. If a guard is
necessary, the Chief of Police shall make provision therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-16)
§ 38.17 FINES AND COSTS.
   If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax the
costs to the defendant plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses, but
the total amount of fine may not exceed the amount set out in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. The court costs are set at $30 per judgment
of conviction, except as statutorily limited by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-17) (Ord. 733, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 38.18 DEDUCTION FROM FINES FOR TRAINING FUND.
   Beginning October 1, 1983, for every fine of $10 or more collected by the
municipal court, $2 shall be set aside for the State Law Enforcement Officers’
Training Fund. The City Clerk, beginning January 1, 1984, and every quarter
thereafter, shall deposit the monies set aside from the previous quarter
pursuant to the first sentence of this section into the State Law Enforcement
Officers’ Training Fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-18)
§ 38.19 FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION TO APPEAR.
   (A)   Traffic citations. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
violate his or her written promise to appear given to an officer upon issuance
of a traffic citation, regardless of the disposition of the charge for which
the citation was originally issued.
   (B)   Nontraffic citations. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
fail to appear in court after personal delivery by an officer or inspector of
the issued citation, regardless of the disposition of the charge for which the
citation was originally issued.
   (C)   Court ordered reappearance. It is unlawful and an offense for any
person to fail to appear in court after initially making an appearance in court
and being ordered to reappear, regardless of the disposition of the charge for
which the citation was originally issued. Notice to reappear by the City Clerk
pursuant to the city judge’s order, mailed by regular mail to the last address
provided by defendant, is prima facie evidence of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-19) (Ord. 625, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 .
   (B)   The punishment prescribed for violation of §
38.19 is a fine of up to $200 and/or ten days in jail.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-19) (Ord. 625, passed 7-18-2006)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITY FEES; BILLINGS
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
      
53.   GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
54.   SANITARY SPRAYING FEE
      
55.   TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
      
56.   GAS UTILITY FEE
      
57.   WASTEWATER TRANSPORTERS AND PRETREATMENT FACILITIES
CHAPTER 50: UTILITY FEES; BILLINGS
Section
   
50.01   Utility fees and billings in general
   
50.02   Failure to pay bills; penalty; disconnection of service
   
50.03   Utility connections; fees; deposits
   
50.04   Other utility fees or charges
§ 50.01 UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS IN GENERAL.
   All fees and charges in connection with any customer’s use of the city
sanitary sewer system, the city water system, or the operation of the city’s
collection and disposal of refuse and garbage are billed in accordance with
applicable rates set by the City Council. All fees and charges owing for any of
these utility services shall be billed on one monthly bill submitted to the
customer each month. The utility bills submitted under the terms of this
section shall be payable on or before the past due date which is printed on the
bill.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 50.02 FAILURE TO PAY BILLS; PENALTY; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Failure to pay; penalties; discontinue service. Upon failure of any
customer to pay any part of a utility bill submitted by the city for any
utility services pursuant to this section by the past due date which is printed
on the bill, the following actions and penalties may result:
      (1)   A penalty of all amounts owing on a utility bill may be added to
any utility bill which is not paid by the past due date printed on the bill;
      (2)   The authorized agents of the city may disconnect or discontinue any
or all utility services to the customer after providing written notice to the
customer of the intent of the city to disconnect or discontinue any or all of
the utility services; and
      (3)   The authorized agents of the city, upon direction of the City
Council, may discontinue to furnish water to any customer refusing or
neglecting to pay all or any part of a utility bill submitted after providing
written notice to the customer of the intent of the city to disconnect the
water service.
   (B)   Reconnect service; requirements. If any utility service is
discontinued or disconnected pursuant to this section, the city, or its agents,
shall not reconnect or reestablish the service until the full amount of any
outstanding utility service bill is paid, plus the penalty provided in this
section, plus any applicable charges or expenses in reconnecting or
reestablishing the service.
   (C)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect that:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
         (c)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $30.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 50.03 UTILITY CONNECTIONS; FEES; DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Water or sewer tap approval; deposit. The city shall approve any
request for a water tap and connection or a sewer tap. Prior to granting
approval by the city, the customer shall have paid the connection or tap charge
as applicable and set by ordinance, resolution or motion of the Council. The
deposit shall serve as a guarantee for the payment of charges for utility
service and other amounts owed to the city in connection with the utility
service. It shall be held in trust by the city. When a customer’s utility
service is disconnected, the deposit, or any part of such amount deposited
which remains after all such charges and amounts due the city have been
satisfied, shall be returned to the customer.
   (B)   Fee set by Council. A fee for reconnection of utility service where
the service has been turned off or a meter has been disconnected by the city
for any reason shall be as set by the City Council by motion, resolution or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 50.04 OTHER UTILITY FEES OR CHARGES.
   The City Council from time to time by ordinance, motion or resolution shall
have the power to establish rates and charges governing all aspects of the city
utility services, including monthly service fees, connection fees and charges
and deposits.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Water system, public utility
   
51.02   Application for water service
   
51.03   Deposit for water service
   
51.04   One premises to meter
   
51.05   Turning on water
   
51.06   Water charges, payment required
   
51.07   Water turn off authorized; turning water on
   
51.08   Customer responsibility
   
51.09   Water stoppage, city not responsible
   
51.10   Service denial pending payment of bills
   
51.11   Inspection of private premises
   
51.12   Interference with fire hydrants; damaging water system
   
51.13   Fluoridation of water system
   
51.14   Water wells
   
51.15   Emergency situation; water shortage
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 WATER SYSTEM, PUBLIC UTILITY.
   The city water system is a public utility owned and operated by the city. It
is the responsibility of the Mayor and City Council to see that it is operated
in a businesslike manner and in accordance with ordinance provisions and other
policies adopted by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 51.02 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Any person desiring to secure water from the city system shall make an
application therefor to the City Clerk. The applicant shall give such
reasonable information as the City Clerk may request.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
§ 51.03 DEPOSIT FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Every applicant for water service shall make such deposit as the City
Council may require by motion or resolution. The deposit shall serve as a
guarantee for the payment of charges for water service and other amounts owed
to the city in connection with such service. When such customer’s service is
discontinued, the deposit or any part of such amount deposited which remains
after all such charges and amounts due the city have been satisfied, shall be
returned to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
Cross-reference:
   Utility connections; fees; deposits, see §
50.03
§ 51.04 ONE PREMISES TO METER.
   (A)   Not more than one premises or living unit may be connected to any one
water meter.
   (B)   No customer shall make or permit to be made any subsidiary connection
of another’s premises with his or her water service.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 TURNING ON WATER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to turn the water on to any premises
from the city water system, except by permission of the city.
   (B)   The city will see that the water is turned on when all requirements
for service have been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 WATER CHARGES, PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall be provided water free,
but all shall be charged for water at the rates now established or as may be
hereafter established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 WATER TURN OFF AUTHORIZED; TURNING WATER ON.
   (A)   Reason for turning off. Water may be cut off and service discontinued
for any user for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation of any ordinance provision relating to the water system,
or violation of any ordinance provision or any provision of any code adopted by
reference relating to water and sanitary plumbing;
      (2)   Failure to pay a water bill or other proper charge in connection
with the water system or the sewer use fee by the time specified; and
      (3)   Any act or omission in regard to the water system or sanitary sewer
system, the use of water, or the disposal of liquid wastes, which jeopardizes
the public health or safety, creates a public nuisance or interferes with the
rights of others.
   (B)   Turning water on again. When a customer’s water service has been cut
off because of delinquency or act or omission of the customer, as provided by
ordinance, it may be turned on again when all charges have been paid or other
change in the conditions justify it. A charge shall be made for turning the
water on again.
   (C)   Water turned back on, city authority. When the water has been turned
off by city personnel, it shall not again be turned on except by permission of
the city.
   (D)   City authority to turn off water. The city reserves the right to cut
off water service to any customer when necessary for the public welfare.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7)
§ 51.08 CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITY.
   All customers using city water shall keep their service pipes, stop cocks
and other water apparatus in good repair and in proper operation, and shall not
unnecessarily waste water.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8)
§ 51.09 WATER STOPPAGE, CITY NOT RESPONSIBLE.
   The city shall not be responsible for any damages due to stoppage or
interruption of water service.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9)
§ 51.10 SERVICE DENIAL PENDING PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   A person owing a water bill or other charges in connection with the city
water system shall not be extended city water service until such bills and
charges have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-10)
§ 51.11 INSPECTION OF PRIVATE PREMISES.
   The Superintendent and other city personnel in the service of the city water
system may enter any private premises served by the city water system at any
reasonable times and inspect the water pipes and fixtures on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-11)
§ 51.12 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS; DAMAGING WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Interference prohibited. It is unlawful for any person, except a
person duly authorized by city personnel, to open, turn on or off, interfere
with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with, any fire hydrant
belonging to the city.
   (B)   Obstructing hydrants. It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access
to any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other
thing, or in any other manner.
   (C)   Damaging system. It is unlawful for any person to damage, destroy, or
tamper with any pipes, meters, or other equipment or property which is a part
of the city water system.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-12) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13 FLUORIDATION OF WATER SYSTEM.
   Upon receiving the consent and approval of the State Board of Health, and
until further direction of the City Council, the Water Department is hereby
authorized and directed to provide the means and to proceed with the
introduction of approximately one part of fluoride to every million parts of
water being distributed in the water supply system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-13)
§ 51.14 WATER WELLS.
   (A)   Drilling permit. Any person wishing to drill a water well within the
city limits must secure a drilling permit at the office of the City Clerk. The
fee for such drilling permit shall be as set by resolution or motion of the
Council.
   (B)   Registration of wells. All water wells within the city limits must be
registered at the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   Location restriction. No water well, lines, connections, tanks or
related equipment used in the procurement of water from the wells will be
located within 500 feet of water lines or equipment used in the distribution of
water from the city water system. Preexisting water wells are grandfathered,
effective November 1, 2003.
   (D)   Fee for reconnecting to water system. A fee will be paid for
reconnecting to the city water system (once a disconnect has been made) in
accordance with §
51.07(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-14)
§ 51.15 EMERGENCY SITUATION; WATER SHORTAGE.
   (A)   Water shortages, declaration of emergency.
      (1)   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due
to inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the City Manager and Council is hereby authorized to
restrict or prohibit the use of water from the city water system.
      (2)   An emergency exists whenever the City Manager and Council
reasonably determines that the city water system is unable or will within 60
days become unable to supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the
users thereof, including adequate fire protection.
   (B)   Restriction on water use in emergency.
      (1)   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the Mayor
shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with
particularity an order restricting use of water from the city system. The order
may:
         (a)   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week
or according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
         (b)   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety. The
order may be revised from time to time as the City Manager and Council deems
necessary.
      (2)   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for 30 days or until such time as the City
Manager and Council shall cause to be published a proclamation that the
emergency has ended, whichever is shorter, unless the City Council by
resolution approved by a majority of all its members votes to terminate the
emergency and proclamation upon a different date.
   (C)   Proclamation and notice of emergency.
      (1)   The proclamation required by the preceding division (B) shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or, if there is no
such newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within 24 hours after
the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy of the
proclamation in ten prominent places in the city. The emergency shall be in
full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with this
section is sufficient to effect the emergency.
      (2)   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability
of water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. However, if any means other than that required in division
(C)(1) of this section is used, the proclamation shall be republished in
accordance with division (C)(1) of this section within 24 hours of the first
notice.
   (D)   Grievances with water restrictions. Any person feeling aggrieved by a
proclamation of the Mayor shall have the right to present the matter to the
next regular or special meeting of the City Council or to any emergency session
called to discuss the water emergency. The City Council may exempt such
aggrieved person, wholly or in part, from compliance with the proclamation
order upon a showing that compliance creates an immediate threat to the
person’s health or safety. The ruling of the Council by a majority vote of all
its members shall be final and binding as to the continuance of any terms of
the proclamation. Until and unless the action of the Mayor is modified or
revoked by action of the Council, all water users shall be bound by the
proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-15) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates or
permits others under his or her supervision, custody or control to violate any
term of a duly published proclamation in violation of §
51.15 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any violation of the provisions of the
Mayor’s proclamation or action of the City Council shall be punishable as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-15)
CHAPTER 52: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
52.01   Declaration of public utility
   
52.02   Definition
   
52.03   Mandatory use of service
   
52.04   Fees and charges
   
52.05   Private sewage disposal
   
52.06   Prohibited discharges
   
52.07   New sewers and connections
   
52.08   Disposal of septic tank materials
   
52.09   License and fee for discharge of septic tank materials
   
52.10   Prohibited discharges of septic tank materials; penalty
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC UTILITY.
   The sanitary sewer system of the city is hereby declared to be a public
utility, and a proper source of revenue for the upkeep and maintenance of the
system, and for other purposes.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 52.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SEWAGE. All matter and material placed in the sanitary sewers of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2)
§ 52.03 MANDATORY USE OF SERVICE.
   Every residential inhabitant within the corporate limits of the city, and
every commercial or business entity or enterprise therein who may practicably
do so, shall utilize sanitary sewer service only through said sanitary sewer
system. The provisions of this section shall be enforced by appropriate legal
action upon direction of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) (Ord. 578-B, passed 7-5-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Sewer use fee. For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance
of the sanitary sewer system of the city and for other purposes, there shall be
a system of fees and charges for the use of the sanitary sewer system of the
city as established by motion or resolution of the City Council. In addition,
those fees and charges currently in force in the city shall remain in force
until changed by motion, resolution or ordinance of the City Council.
   (B)   Collection. The fee for the use of the sanitary sewers shall be billed
to each user monthly, along with the bill for water and other services, and the
city is directed not to accept payment of the water bill unless such payment is
accompanied by the sewer use fee.
   (C)   Determination of charge. It being impractical, in most instances, to
meter the amount of sewage disposed of through the sanitary sewer system for
commercial users, the amount of sewage disposed of shall be prima facie the
amount of water metered to such commercial users, less such amount of water as
such user may show is consumed and not deposited into the sanitary sewer
system, and plus any amount of water deposited in the sanitary sewer, either
not metered, or derived from sources other than the city water system.
   (D)   Disposition of funds. The funds derived from such fees shall be
deposited in the general revenues of the city, to be used for the upkeep,
maintenance, extension, and repair of the sanitary sewer system, and for such
other uses as the City Council may deem fit.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4)
§ 52.05 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Sewage entering into water for public water system. It is unlawful for
any person, firm, partnership, corporation, individual or trust or municipality
to erect, construct, build, maintain or operate a sewage treatment plant or
sewage disposal system, or a sewage treatment lagoon within the corporate
limits of the city where the discharge of any sewage or sewage effluent from
any such sewage disposal system, sewage treatment plant or sewage treatment
lagoon may or could enter into any stream of water from which the city obtains
water for the public water system of the city.
   (B)   Operating sewage system within city limits. Any person, firm,
partnership, corporation, individual, or trust or municipality erecting,
constructing, building, maintaining or operating such a sewage treatment plant
or sewage disposal system or a sewage treatment lagoon within the corporate
limits of the city, shall be deemed guilty of an offense. Each day of such
erecting, constructing, building, maintaining or operating, shall be deemed a
distinct and separate offense. Also, more than one separate offense may be
committed in a day by any person, firm, partnership, corporation, individual,
or trust or municipality.
   (C)   Declaration of nuisance. By reason of the fact that discharging of
sewage or sewage residue or sewage effluent into the water supply of the city
is or could be injurious to the health of the inhabitants, or the existence or
the maintenance or operation of a sewage treatment plant or sewage disposal
system, or a sewage lagoon draining sewage residue or sewage effluent into the
source of water supply of the city is hereby declared a public nuisance.
   (D)   Abatement of nuisance. Code Enforcement and any police officer may
abate any such nuisance and prevent the discharge of any sewage or sewage
residue or sewage effluent from flowing into any water from which the city
obtains water for its municipal water supply.
   (E)   Septic tanks excepted. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply
to any approved septic tank serving not to exceed eight families.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A) Prohibited waste. No person may discharge to public sewers any waste
which by itself or by interaction with other wastes may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      (3)   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   (B)   Exceptions. All discharges shall be prohibited except those that meet
the criteria for “domestic wastewater”. BOD concentration shall not exceed 210
milligrams per liter (210 mg/l; maximum limit for average domestic wastewater).
SS shall not exceed 200 milligrams per liter (200 mg/l; maximum limit for
average domestic wastewater).
   (C)   Industrial discharges. All industrial discharges are prohibited. At
the present time, there are no industrial users in the city. If an industrial
user should desire to locate in the city and make use of the sewerage system,
an industrial cost recovery system will be initiated in accordance with EPA and
state regulations at that time to compensate for his use of the system.
   (D)   New inflow connections prohibited. Any new connections from inflow
sources into the sanitary sewer portions of the sewer system shall be
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with local regulations. The connection of the building
sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the City
Building Code and other applicable rules and regulations of the city. All new
sewer service and reconnection service, excepting nonpayment reconnections,
shall have a sewer backflow prevention device installed before entrance into
the city’s system. The city shall be entitled to periodically inspect for
compliance of installed units.
   (B)   Compliance with state requirements. All new sanitary sewage works
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of the
Oklahoma State Department of Health.
   (C)   Availability of public sewer. When a public sewer becomes available
within 200 feet, the building sewer shall be connected to the sewer within 60
days.
   (D)   Sewage backflow prevention.
      (1)   All new connection lines to the city’s public sanitary sewer system
shall include an approved backflow prevention device. Said device should be of
sufficient size and quality to prevent backflow to individual residences or
businesses.
      (2)   At the time of establishing a new utility account, the city shall
assess a voluntary fee in the amount of $30, or such amount as Council shall
hereinafter establish by resolution, for the installment of a backflow
prevention device if possible and inspection of the sewer cleanout.
      (3)   As a means of encouraging the installation of new sewer backflow
prevention devices, the city shall provide a utility credit in an amount equal
to the cost of purchase of said overflow device, not to exceed $30 for those
utility customers who present proof of purchase prior to February 28, 2014.
      (4)   Housing units occupied by record owners shall be awarded a backflow
prevention device for installation by a licensed plumber by grant or otherwise
on the following priority basis:
         (a)   Homes with prior sewage backups;
         (b)   Homes with basements;
         (c)   Homes in designated floodplain;
         (d)   Homes within 500 feet of a commercial food outlet; and
         (e)   Low lying areas of the city as determined by TOPO map of U.S.
geological survey.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7) (Ord. 831, passed 9-17-2013; Ord. 832, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 52.08 DISPOSAL OF SEPTIC TANK MATERIALS.
   (A)   Location for discharges. All operators who wish to dispose of septic
tank materials in the city shall discharge all materials therefrom at the
assigned location.
   (B)   License and fees required.
      (1)   All operators disposing of septic tank materials shall have a
current valid septic discharge license issued under the license regulations in
§
52.10 of this chapter. The individual operator holding the license shall be
physically present at each discharge of septic materials or the discharge will
be deemed to have occurred without a license.
      (2)   The City Clerk, or his or her designated representative, is
authorized, after notice and a hearing, to revoke any permit or license to haul
or discharge septic tankers upon a judicial determination that said operator,
his or her agent or employee, has violated this section or §
52.10 of this chapter.
      (3)   Any operator who discharges septic tank materials anywhere in the
city other than the approved location at the wastewater treatment plant or
discharges septic tank materials without a valid license is guilty of a
violation defined in §
52.10 of this chapter.
   (C)   Insurance and certification required. All operators discharging septic
materials shall be bonded and insured and have all necessary certifications
from ODEQ.
   (D)   Time of discharge. All septic material shall be disposed of only
during business hours and when there is staff available at the wastewater
treatment plant to supervise the discharge.
   (E)   Inspection. All discharges shall be supervised by an employee of the
wastewater department. A sample shall be taken from each discharge to ensure
the materials do not contain an unacceptable level of grease or other
prohibited material.
   (F)   Violation of discharge regulations. Failure to meet any of the
requirements of this section shall be deemed a violation defined in §
52.10 of this chapter. Each and every violation of this section shall be a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-9) (Ord. 848, passed 9-1-2015) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 LICENSE AND FEE FOR DISCHARGE OF SEPTIC TANK MATERIALS.
   (A)   License holder. The holder of a septic discharge license shall be an
individual, and not a business. The license will be valid for one year.
   (B)   License fee. The yearly septic discharge license fee is $250, which
shall be paid to the City Clerk. The fee is due when the license is granted and
upon the annual renewal of the license. The license shall not be valid unless
and until the annual fee has been paid.
   (C)   Security deposit. Every applicant for a septic discharge license, or
for renewal of said license, shall be required to maintain a security deposit
with the city as a precondition to issuance, reissuance or renewal of the
septic discharge license. The amount of the security deposit shall be $250. The
security deposit shall be paid to the City Clerk, who shall keep a record of
the balance attributed to each licensed operator. Fees for each separate
discharge shall be drawn from this deposit. When the deposit is exhausted and/
or when the operator renews his or her license, the operator must restore the
balance of the deposit to $250.
   (D)   Return of deposit. The holder of the septic sanitation service license
shall be entitled to return of the deposit, or the remainder thereof not
applied as provided in this section, without interest, upon request, after the
holder has permitted his or her septic sanitation service license to expire and
after payment of all outstanding fees, surcharges, and any interest or late
charges thereon due for septic materials discharged by the holder while
engaging in business under the license.
   (E)   Fee per discharge. The fee for each discharge of septic material at
the wastewater treatment plant shall be $50 per release. A RELEASE is defined
as one release of effluent from one tank, regardless of whether the tank is
full or not.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-10) (Ord. 848, passed 9-1-2015)
§ 52.10 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES OF SEPTIC TANK MATERIALS; PENALTY.
   All discharges of septic tank materials in violation of the provisions §
52.10 of this chapter shall be a violation punishable by fine. Each separate
discharge from each tank shall be considered a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-11) (Ord. 848, passed 9-1-2015) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Continuance of prohibited discharges; penalty. A person who continues
prohibited discharges is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is
punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances for each act of violation and for each day of
violation.
   (B)   Remedial action. In addition to proceeding under authority of division
(A) of this section, the city is entitled to pursue all other criminal and
civil remedies to which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other
ordinances against a person continuing prohibited discharges.
   (C)   Termination of service. The city reserves the right to terminate
service to any customer that fails to pay bills when due or discharges any
prohibited wastes into the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8)
   (D)   Septic tank materials. The maximum punishment which may be levied for
violation of §
52.10 shall be a fine not exceeding $600 excluding costs.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-11)
(Ord. 848, passed 9-1-2015)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
53.01   Systems transferred to Holdenville Public Works Authority
   
53.02   City collection of garbage and refuse
   
53.03   Garbage Department or contract authorized
   
53.04   Garbage accumulations on premises a nuisance
   
53.05   Garbage container requirements
   
53.06   Frequency of pickup
   
53.07   Inspection; enforcement
   
53.08   Restriction on collection and transportation
   
53.09   Manure, dead animals disposed of by owner
   Appendix A: Public Works Authority
§ 53.01 SYSTEMS TRANSFERRED TO HOLDENVILLE PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Sound financial policies. In order for the city to establish sound
financial and management policies toward the operation, maintenance and control
of the refuse and collection systems of the city, it is hereby declared that
the refuse and collection systems should be transferred under the direct
jurisdiction and control of the Holdenville Public Works Authority.
   (B)   Enterprise function. In order for the city to establish as an
enterprise function, it is hereby declared that the city refuse and collection
systems be transferred to the direct control and jurisdiction of the
Holdenville Public Works Authority.
   (C)   Financing of operations. For all auditing, budgeting and financing of
operations, it is hereby resolved that the city refuse and collection systems
should be transferred to the control of the Holdenville Public Works Authority.
   (D)   Council as beneficiary. The City Council will remain as beneficiary of
all properties and assets of the refuse and collection systems but will
transfer operational control to the Holdenville Public Works Authority with all
powers enumerated in the creation of the Holdenville Public Works Trust
Authority indenture dated April 21, 1964.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 562, passed 6-6-1989, eff. 7-1-1989)
§ 53.02 CITY COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   The city, by its own personnel or by contract, shall collect and dispose of
garbage and refuse in the city. The fees for this service shall be determined
by motion or resolution adopted by the City Council, which fees shall be paid
by all residents and businesses located within the city limits, and others
desiring the service. Any fees or charges determined by the City Council prior
to enactment of this chapter shall remain in effect until changed by motion,
resolution or ordinance of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2)
§ 53.03 GARBAGE DEPARTMENT OR CONTRACT AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   City authority; contract. The City Manager and City Council are hereby
authorized to create a Garbage Department of the city and to hire sufficient
help to operate the Department and to purchase any equipment necessary to
properly conduct the Department; or they may enter into a contract with some
suitable person, or person, firm or corporation, for the removal and disposal
of the garbage and refuse, and such contract may continue in force and effect
for a period of not less than one nor more than two years.
   (B)   Bond for contractor. Any such contractor or garbage collector acting
under contract shall furnish a good and sufficient surety bond conditioned for
the faithful performance of such contract and all the requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   Equipment provided by contractor. Any person, firm or corporation who
receives such contract from the city shall provide the necessary equipment to
properly remove such garbage.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3)
§ 53.04 GARBAGE ACCUMULATIONS ON PREMISES A NUISANCE.
   No person shall permit garbage or other refuse to accumulate on premises
occupied by him or her in such manner that the garbage or other refuse becomes
a hazard to the health or safety of others. Such an accumulation of garbage or
other refuse is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be abated as such.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 GARBAGE CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Container size; placement. The City Council, by motion or resolution,
shall prescribe the size and kinds of containers in which garbage and other
refuse shall be placed, and the location where such containers are to be placed
for pick up.
   (B)   Containers provided by owner or occupant. Every owner, occupant,
tenant or lessee using and occupying a residence, building, house or structure
within the corporate limits of the city shall provide and maintain garbage
containers and receptacles for refuse and rubbish. Such containers and
receptacles shall be of the kind and character hereinafter specified. Each
owner, occupant or lessee shall place the containers and receptacles and
maintain the same at the place or places specified in this chapter.
   (C)   Capacity; number; material. Each owner, occupant or lessee shall
provide one garbage can constructed of some substantial metallic or plastic
material, watertight, having a tight metal or plastic lid or cover and with
substantial handles on the sides. Plastic bags shall be required in which
garbage shall be placed within garbage cans. Each garbage can shall be of the
following capacity:
      (1)   For each family dwelling unit, one or more container (as necessity
requires), each container not more than 95 gallon capacity; and
      (2)   For all rooming houses, stores, hotels, restaurants, business
retail and office buildings, one or more container (as necessity requires),
each container not eight cubic yard capacity.
   (D)   Container for dry refuse. Every owner, occupant or lessee shall, in
addition to providing the garbage container set forth in division (C) of this
section, provide and maintain a suitable metal or plastic container for dry
garbage and refuse, excepting cinders, ashes, rock, iron and other dry heavy
waste material, which is to be piled so as to be accessible to the collector.
   (E)   Lids kept on containers. The lids or covers of such garbage containers
shall at all times be kept on and fastened so that flies and other insects may
not have access to the refuse contained therein, and shall only be removed
while emptying additional garbage or refuse therein, or while the contractor or
person authorized is removing such garbage or unloading the same for disposal.
   (F)   Placement on lot. The owner, occupant or lessee shall at all times
keep and maintain such containers and receptacles at the rear of the lot or
premises abutting on the alley or in such place that the same may be readily
accessible to the collector who removes such garbage or refuse.
   (G)   Placement on street. For those residences serviced from the street and
receiving curbside service, unless otherwise directed due to special
circumstances, carts are to be placed in front of the curb with handles facing
away from the street. Carts must be placed in an obstacle free open area with
no obstructions within five feet on either side of the container. Carts are to
be placed at the curb not prior to 5:00 p.m. the night prior to the day of
collection and no later than 7:00 a.m. on the day of collection. Residents must
remove containers from the curb no later than 8:00 a.m. the morning following
collection days. Carts observed to be at the curb at times not allowed may be
removed from the curbside by city officials, or any agent thereof, and
relocated near the front edge of the residence or near the garage area.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5) (Ord. 888, passed 1-2-2024)
§ 53.06 FREQUENCY OF PICKUP.
   All garbage cans for wet garbage shall be emptied weekly at all times by the
Garbage Department of the city or by the person under contract with the city to
perform such work. Where restaurants, hotels, or other places of business
accumulate larger quantities of garbage or refuse, the same shall be emptied
weekly and shall be provided with a large enough volume of garbage cans to
avoid becoming a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6)
§ 53.07 INSPECTION; ENFORCEMENT.
   It is the duty of Code Enforcement the City Council to make or cause to be
made inspection to determine whether such garbage is being properly disposed of
and to further determine if receptacles of the kind required by this chapter
have been obtained by the persons required to use the same under this chapter.
It is hereby made the duty of such inspector to report to the City Attorney any
person, firm or corporation failing to comply with this chapter in any
particular. The City Attorney is required to institute the necessary proceeding
to prosecute such offender as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7)
§ 53.08 RESTRICTION ON COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   Except as provided in this section, it is unlawful for any person, firm or
association to use the public streets, alleys and ways in the city for the
transportation of garbage, trash or other noxious substances. At the times and
under the regulations prescribed by the Sanitation Department, persons may
transport over the public streets of the city and deposit in the city transfer
station tree limbs, trees, rock, building construction trash and fill material.
The Sanitation Department may authorize persons or firms to utilize the public
streets and alleys, and to go onto the city transfer station to dispose of
their own trash and refuse between the hours of 12:00 noon on Saturdays and 12:
00 midnight on Sundays, and on holidays, such authorization to be in writing,
but to be subject to revocation by the Sanitation Department without notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-8)
§ 53.09 MANURE, DEAD ANIMALS DISPOSED OF BY OWNER.
   Manure from private stables or offal or refuse from animals, or night soil
and dead animals, and all other waste not herein mentioned must be kept in a
separate suitable receptacle and not dumped in the alleys or retained on the
premises and become a nuisance, the same to be disposed of by the owner. The
City Manager and City Council shall enforce this section as provided by
ordinances declaring such to be a nuisance under the health laws of the city
and state. It is the duty of the City Manager and Council or the designated
inspector, Superintendent of City Health, or the employee of the city to whom
the City Manager and Council may assign his or her duties, to see that the
removal is promptly made when so ordered.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-9)
APPENDIX A: PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY
Section
   
1   Declaration and covenant
   
2   Name
   
3   Purposes
   
4   Duration
   
5   Trust Estate
   
6   The Trustees
   
7   Powers and duties of Trustees
   
8   Beneficiary
   
9   Termination
   
10   Partial ineffectiveness
   
11   Covenant
SECTION 1: DECLARATION AND COVENANT.
The undersigned hereby declare and covenant, between themselves and unto the
state of Oklahoma and the beneficiary hereinafter described, that they and
their successors do and will hold, receive and administer the trust estate
hereinafter described, as trustees of a public trust under and pursuant to the
laws of the state of Oklahoma now in force and effect (generally, but not
exclusively, 60 O.S. §§ 176 to 180, inclusive, and the Oklahoma trust act),
solely for the use and benefit of the beneficiary for the public purposes and
functions hereinafter set forth, in the manner provided in this instrument or,
in the absence of applicable provision herein, then in the manner now provided
by law.
SECTION 2: NAME.
The name of this trust shall be, and the Trustees thereof in their
representative fiduciary capacity shall be designated as “The Holdenville
Public Works Authority”. Under that name, the trustees shall, so far as
practicable, conduct all business, and execute all instruments in writing, and
otherwise perform their duties and functions, in the execution of this trust.
SECTION 3: PURPOSES.
(A)The purposes of this trust are:
(1)To furnish and supply to the inhabitants, to owners and occupants of
property and to industrial, commercial and mercantile establishments, within
the corporate limits of the beneficiary municipality and in territory in
reasonably convenient proximity thereto, and to the beneficiary municipality
and any other governmental agencies or endeavors, hospital services and
physical facilities and utility services and physical facilities for all
purposes authorized or proper as a function of the beneficiary municipality.
(2)For the furtherance of the greater convenience and welfare of the
beneficiary municipality and the inhabitants thereof, to provide and/or to aid
in providing and/or to participate in providing, to the United States of
America, the state of Oklahoma, the beneficiary municipality, the county or
counties within which the beneficiary municipality is located, the school
district or districts within which the beneficiary municipality is located and/
or to any agency or instrumentality of either or any of them, or to any one or
more of them, facilities and/or services of any and all kinds necessary or
convenient to the functioning thereof.
(3)To perform, on behalf of the beneficiary municipality, the functions and
powers authorized to it by the Oklahoma Local Industrial Development Act of
1961 (62 O.S. §§ 651 to 664, inclusive).
(4)In implementation or furtherance of all of the foregoing, to enter into any
contractual, arrangements in relation thereto, including (but not restricted
to) purchase contracts, sales contracts, construction contracts, maintenance
contracts, operation contracts, service contracts, leases, lease purchase
agreements, options, conveyances, and agreements to enter into or make any or
either of them; and, in additional implementation or furtherance of the
foregoing, to make a gift or gifts of the facilities and/or services to any one
or more of the governmental entities aforesaid or to contract so to do; and to
fix, demand, and collect charges, rates, rents and fees for any services and
facilities to the same extent as the beneficiary itself might do: provided,
that the furnishing of any services or facilities to any person delinquent in
the payment of any indebtedness whatsoever to the trust may be discontinued at
any time.
(5)To acquire, by lease, purchase or otherwise, and to hold, construct, equip,
maintain and operate, any and all physical properties designated or needful for
utilization in the furnishing and providing of the aforesaid services and
facilities; and to relinquish, dispose of, rent or otherwise make provision
for, physical properties owned or controlled by the trust but no longer needful
for trust purposes.
(6)To provide funds for the cost of financing, acquiring, constructing,
equipping, maintaining, repairing and operating any of the aforesaid services
or facilities, and all properties (real, personal and/or mixed) needful for
executing and fulfilling the trust purposes as set forth in this section of
this instrument, and all other charges, costs and expenses necessarily incurred
in connection therewith; and in so doing, to incur indebtedness, either
unsecured or secured by all or any part of the trust assets or property and/or
its revenues.
(7)To expend all funds coming into the hands of the trustees, as revenue or
otherwise, in the payment of the aforesaid costs and expenses and in the
payment of any indebtedness incurred by the trustees for purposes specified
herein, and in the payment of any other debt or obligation properly chargeable
against the trust estate, and to distribute the residue and remainder of such
funds to the beneficiary municipality for the payment of all or any part of the
principal and/or interest of any bonded indebtedness of the beneficiary and/or
for any one or more authorized or proper purposes of the beneficiary as shall
be specified by the trustees hereunder.
(8)Whenever the same shall be or become material, the purposes set forth in
division (A)(1), (A)(2) and (A)(3) of this section shall be the primary
objectives of this trust and the provisions of divisions (A)(4) to (A)(7),
inclusive, shall be deemed and construed in implementation thereof and
collateral thereto.
(B)For all purposes of this section, the word FACILITIES as used herein means
real estate and all privileges, benefits and appurtenances thereto, also
buildings, structures, installations, and all physical property whatsoever and
all rights, privileges and benefits appertaining or related thereto.
SECTION 4: DURATION.
This trust shall have duration for the term of duration of the beneficiary
municipality as hereinafter described, and until such time as the trust’s
purposes shall have been fully executed and fulfilled, or until it shall be
terminated as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 5: TRUST ESTATE.
The trust estate shall consist of all money, property (real, personal and/or
mixed), rights, choses in action, contracts, leases, privileges, franchises,
benefits and all other things of value (whether or not above described)
presently in or hereafter coming into the hands, or under the control of the
trustees pursuant to the provisions of this instrument or by virtue of the
trusteeship herein declared.
SECTION 6: THE TRUSTEES.
(A)The trustees of this trust, except as hereinafter provided, shall, ex
officio, be the same persons who currently shall be the acting members of the
legally constituted governing body of the beneficiary municipality without
distinction as to the office held; provided, that the person who currently
shall be the presiding officer of the governing body of the beneficiary
municipality shall, ex officio, be chairman of this trust.
(1) Each undersigned trustee shall continue as such, unless temporarily
replaced pursuant to division (D) of this section, until succeeded and replaced
by some other person as an officer of the beneficiary municipality above
designated, ex officio, to be a trustee and such other person shall have
qualified as a trustee hereunder as provided in division (E) of this section.
(2)Each person who shall become such an above designated officer of the
beneficiary municipality shall be entitled to qualify as, and to become, a
trustee hereunder and to continue as such, unless temporarily replaced pursuant
to division (D) of this section, until succeeded and replaced by some other
person as such officer of the beneficiary municipality and such other person
shall have qualified as a trustee hereunder as provided in division (C) of this
section; provided, that in the event the number of persons constituting the
governing body of the beneficiary municipality shall be reduced by or pursuant
to applicable law, any person who shall cease to be a member of the governing
body of the beneficiary municipality shall, forthwith, cease to be a trustee of
this trust.
(3)All of the legal rights, powers and duties of each trustee shall terminate
when he shall cease to be a trustee hereunder and all of such legal rights,
powers and duties shall devolve upon his successor and successors, with full
right and power of the latter to do or perform any act or thing which his
predecessor or any predecessor could have done or performed.
(B)Each trustee qualifying under this instrument shall continue as such until
his successor shall have qualified as provided in division (E) of this section.
(C)The determination of the fact of a vacancy shall be vested exclusively in
the remaining trustees and their determination of such fact shall be
conclusive; and, in the event that such a vacancy shall be determined to exist,
the remaining trustees may fill such vacancy pending qualification, as provided
in division (E) of this section, of the person entitled so to do.
(D)The trustees may contract, in connection with the incurring of any funded
indebtedness secured by the trust estate and/or its revenues, or any part of
either or both, that temporary trustees, residents of Hughes County, Oklahoma,
and approved by the district court of the county or a judge of the court, may
be appointed to act in place and instead of permanent trustees in relation to
the security for such funded debt, in such number that such temporary trustees
may constitute a majority of the trustees, in the event of a default under any
instrument securing such debt or pursuant to which such debt be incurred. Any
such contract, if made, shall provide for the method of appointment of each
temporary trustee and shall also provide that any such appointment shall
designate the permanent trustee to be so temporarily supplanted. Each such
temporary trustee so appointed shall, after he shall have qualified as provided
in division (E) of this section, supplant in all respects the permanent trustee
so designated in relation to the security for such funded debt; and, during the
term of any such temporary trustee, the permanent trustee so supplanted shall
be wholly without authority, duty, or liability of any kind in relation to the
security for such funded debt, under the terms of this instrument. All
temporary trustees shall cease to have any power or authority upon the
termination of all defaults by which their appointments would have been
authorized, and, automatically, the permanent trustees supplanted shall be
reinstated.
(E)All trustees, and all temporary trustees appointed hereunder, shall qualify
by written acceptance of all the terms of this duly acknowledged and filed in
the office of the County Clerk of Hughes County, Oklahoma, and by subscribing
and filing in the office of the authority such oaths as shall be required by
law of public officers of the State of Oklahoma.
(F)Upon each change of personnel of the trustees hereunder, the trustees shall
cease to be filed in the office of the County Clerk mentioned in division (E)
of this section, a certificate as to the entire personnel, of the trustees of
this trust.
(G)The acceptance of the office of trustee of this trust shall not constitute
the trustees hereunder, permanent or temporary, or both, to be in partnership
or association, but each shall be an individual and wholly independent trustee
only.
(H)Notwithstanding any provision of this instrument which shall appear to
provide otherwise, no trustee or trustees shall have any power or authority to
bind or obligate any other trustee, or the beneficiary of this trust, in his or
its individual, capacity.
(I)All persons, firms, associations, trusteeships, corporations,
municipalities, governments, and all agents, agencies and instrumentalities
thereof, contracting with any trustee or trustees, permanent or temporary or
both, shall take notice that all expenses and obligations, and all debts,
damages, judgments, decrees or liabilities incurred by any trustee or trustees,
permanent or temporary or both, and any of the foregoing incurred by any agent,
servant or employee of any such trustee or trustees, in the execution of the
purposes of this trust, whether arising from contract or tort, shall be solely
chargeable to, and payable out of, the trust estate. In no event shall any
trustee, permanent or temporary, or the beneficiary of this trust, be in any
manner individually liable for any injury or damage to persons or property, or
for breach or obligation, caused by, arising from, incident to, or growing out
of the execution of this trust; nor shall they, or any of them, be liable for
the acts or omissions of each other or of any agent, servant or employee of the
aforesaid trustees, or of another such trustee; provided however, that the
foregoing shall not apply to any willful or grossly negligent breach of trust
of any trustee.
SECTION 7: POWERS AND DUTIES OF TRUSTEES.
(A)Subject to, and in full compliance with, all requirements of law applicable
to this trust or to the trustees thereof:
(1)The trustees, in the manner hereinafter set forth, shall do, or cause to be
done, all things which are incidental, necessary, proper or convenient to carry
fully into effect the purposes enumerated in Section 3 of this instrument, with
the general authority hereby given being intended to make fully effective the
power of the trustees under this instrument; and, to effectuate the purposes,
the trustees are specifically authorized (but their general powers not limited
hereby, notwithstanding any specific enumeration or description) in a lawful
manner:
(a)To enter in and conduct and execute, apply for, purchase, or otherwise
acquire franchises, property (real or personal), contracts, leases, rights,
privileges, benefits, choses in action, or other things of value, and to pay
for the same in cash, with bonds or evidence of indebtedness, or otherwise;
(b)To own, hold, manage, and in any manner to convey, lease, assign, liquidate,
dispose of, compromise, or realize upon, any property, contract, franchise,
right, privilege, benefit, choses in action, or other things of value, and to
exercise any and all power necessary or convenient with respect to the same;
(c)To guarantee, acquire, hold, sell, transfer, assign, encumber, dispose of,
and deal in, the stocks, bonds, debentures, shares or evidences of interest or
indebtedness in or of any sovereignty, government, municipality, corporation,
association, trusteeship, firm or individual, and to enter into and perform any
lawful contract in relation thereto, and to exercise all rights, powers and
privileges in relation thereto, the same extent as a natural person might or
could do; and the foregoing shall include (without limitation by reason of
enumeration) the power and authority to guarantee or assume or to contract to
guarantee or assume, out of distributive funds of the trust, the payment of any
part or all of the principal of and/or interest on any bonded indebtedness of
the beneficiary municipality during any part or all of the term of any such
bonded indebtedness, and to fully perform any such contract.
(d)To enter into, make and perform contracts of every lawful kind or character,
including (but not limited to) management contracts, with any person, firm,
association, corporation, trusteeship, municipality, government, or
sovereignty; and, subject to applicable provisions of division (B) of this
section, without limit as to amount, to draw, make, accept, endorse, assume,
guarantee, discount, execute and issue promissory notes, drafts, bills of
exchange, acceptances, warrants, bonds, debentures, and any other negotiable or
nonnegotiable or transferable or nontransferable instruments, obligations, and
evidences or unsecured or secured indebtedness, and if secured by mortgage,
deed of trust, or otherwise, secured by all or any part or parts of the
property of the trust, and to pledge all or any part of the income of the
trusts, in the same manner and to the same extent as a natural person might or
could do.
(B)Notwithstanding anything in this instrument appearing to be to the contrary,
the trustees shall not incur any indebtedness or obligation whatsoever which
shall be secured by any property or interest in property leased or licensed to
the trustees by the beneficiary municipality which property or interest in
property shall have been acquired by the beneficiary municipality by the
expenditure of any of its funds, or which shall be secured by any of the
revenues of any such property or any part thereof, until first there shall have
been submitted to all of the qualified electors of the beneficiary
municipality, at an election held for that purpose, the question of the
incurring of such secured indebtedness or obligation, and the same shall have
been approved by a majority of the electors voting on such question at the
election. For the conducting of such an election, the trustees hereby are
authorized to make all necessary or proper provisions, among which shall be
required the following:
(1)They shall cause to be prepared a ballot setting forth the amount of
indebtedness or obligation proposed to be incurred, the property and/or
revenues proposed to be mortgaged and/or pledged as security therefor, and the
purpose or purposes for which such indebtedness or obligation is proposed to be
incurred; and
(2)Notice of any such election shall be published, and any such election shall
be held, in substantially the same manner as shall then be provided by law for
municipal elections on similar questions; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this division (B) shall not be applicable to the following:
(a)Any pledge of the trust revenues for the purpose of guaranteeing or assuming
any bonded indebtedness of the beneficiary municipality;
(b)Any indebtedness incurred for the refunding of any outstanding indebtedness
of the trust if the principal amount of the indebtedness being incurred for
such purpose shall not exceed the amount of the indebtedness being refunded
plus costs and expenses necessarily incidental to the issuance and sale of such
refunding bonds; or
(c)Any indebtedness not to exceed $50,000 incurred in any one calendar year for
the purpose of making improvements or repairs to, or replacements of, operating
and revenue-producing portions of the trust estate, and paying costs and
expenses necessarily incidental to the issuance and sale of the bonds; and
provided further, that any election held by the beneficiary municipality at
which the approval of the incurring of indebtedness by the authority or the
trustees thereof shall be the proposition submitted, or shall be included in
the proposition submitted, and approved, shall operate to comply with the
requirements of this division (B).
(C)No contract for the purchase, construction or installation of physical
facilities shall be made except in full accordance with any bidding and/or
bonding requirements then applicable to like contracts made by the beneficiary
municipality.
(D)The trustees shall collect and receive all property, money, rents, and
income of all kinds belonging to or due the trust estate, and shall use the
same solely for the purposes, and the furtherance of the purposes, set forth in
Section 3 of this instrument, and not otherwise.
(E)The trustees shall take and hold title to all property at any time belonging
to the trust in the names of the trustees or in the name of the authority, and
shall have and exercise exclusively the management and control of the same, for
the use and benefit of the beneficiary municipality, as provided herein, in the
execution of the purposes of this trust; and the right of the trustees to
manage, control and administer the said trust, its property, assets and
business, shall be absolute and unconditional and free from any direction,
control or management by the beneficiary municipality or any person or persons
whatsoever.
(F)The trustees may employ such agents, servants and employees as they deem
necessary, proper or convenient for the execution of the purposes of this
trust, and prescribe their duties and fix their compensation; provided, that,
if and so long as the government of the beneficiary municipality shall be
administered by a city manager under authority of statute or charter, the
person who currently shall be employed as city manager of the beneficiary
municipality shall be employed as general manager of the authority, with all
powers of administration of the authority’s property and affairs, under
supervision of the trustees of the authority, as such city manager shall have
in relation to municipal property and affairs under supervision of the
governing body of such municipality.
(G)The trustees may contract for the furnishing of any services or the
performance of any duties that the trustees deem necessary, proper or
convenient to the execution of the purposes of the trust, and shall pay for the
same as they see fit to provide in such a contract.
(H)The trustees, by resolution, may divide the duties of the trustees
hereunder, delegating all or any part of such duties to one or another of the
trustees as they deem proper; but, where a specific duty is not so delegated, a
majority of the trustees must act for the authority.
(I)The trustees shall, in the name of the trust as hereinabove set forth, or in
their names as trustees, bring any suit or action which, in their judgment,
shall be necessary or proper to protect the interests of the trust, or to
enforce any claim, demand or contract for the trust or for the benefit of the
trust; and they shall defend, in their discretion, any action or proceeding
against the trust or the trustees or agents, servants or employees thereof. And
the trustees are expressly authorized, in their discretion, to bring, enter,
prosecute or defend any action or proceeding in which the trust shall be
interested, and to compromise any such action or proceeding and discharge the
same out of the trust property and assets; and the trustees also are expressly
authorized to pay or transfer out of the trust property or assets such money or
property as shall be required to satisfy any judgment or decree rendered
against them as trustees, or against the trust, together with all costs,
including court costs, counsel and attorney’s fees, and also to pay out of the
trust property and assets such sums of money, or transfer appropriate property
or assets of the trust, for the purpose of settling, compromising, or adjusting
any claim, demand, controversy, action or proceeding, together with all costs
and expenses connected therewith; and all such expenditures and transfers shall
be treated as proper expenses of executing the purposes of this trust.
(J)No bond shall be required of the trustees, or any of them, unless they shall
deem the same proper and shall provide therefor by resolution.
(K)All proceedings of the trustees shall be taken in public meeting only, and
the trustees shall make, or cause to be made, a written record of all of their
proceedings. All records of the trust shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk of the beneficiary municipality and shall be subject to inspection during
customary business hours as are public records of the beneficiary municipality.
(L)At their first meeting, the trustees shall designate the principal office of
the trust; and they also shall designate the time and place for regular
meetings of the trustees. The time and place of regular meetings shall not be
changed unless at a meeting where all incumbent trustees are present. No notice
shall be required for the holding of regular meetings of the trustees. Special
meetings may be held upon such call as shall be fixed by resolution of the
trustees adopted at a meeting where all incumbent trustees are present. The
trustees shall cause to be filed, in all places where this instrument is
recorded, a certificate designating the principal office of the trust and the
time and place of regular meetings of the trustees; and any changes therein
shall be filed for record in like manner.
SECTION 8: BENEFICIARY.
(A)The terms BENEFICIARY and BENEFICIARY MUNICIPALITY, as used in this
instrument, denote the incorporated City of Holdenville, State of Oklahoma, and
likewise shall denote any municipal entity which hereafter may succeed the
incorporated city as the governing authority of the territory lying within the
municipal boundaries of the incorporated city on the effective date of this
instrument.
(B)The beneficiary shall have no legal claim or right to the trust estate, or
to any part thereof, against the trustees or anyone holding under them; neither
shall the beneficiary, as such, have any authority, power or right whatsoever
to do or transact any business whatsoever for, or on behalf of, or binding
upon, the trustees or the trust estate; neither shall the beneficiary have the
right to control or direct the actions of the trustees in respect of the trust
estate, or any part thereof; nor shall the beneficiary have any right to demand
or require any partition or distribution of the trust estate, or any part
thereof. The beneficiary shall be entitled solely to the benefits of this
trust, as administered by the trustees hereunder, and at the termination of the
trust, as provided herein, and then only, the beneficiary shall receive the
residue of the trust estate. Notwithstanding anything in the aforesaid
appearing to be to the contrary, no provision in this instrument and/or of the
acceptance of beneficial interest thereunder by the governing body of the said
beneficiary, limiting, restricting or denying any authority, power, or right of
the beneficiary of the trust in relation to the administration thereof is
intended, or shall be construed or interpreted, to effect a surrender, or to
attempt to effect a surrender, of any of the sovereign governmental powers of
the state of Oklahoma or of the beneficiary municipality; but any and all
provisions of this trust instrument are intended, and shall be applied, to
relate solely and only to the proprietary rights and property interests of the
said beneficiary, in trust, as distinguished from its sovereign governmental
powers and authority. Moreover, it further is agreed that nothing contained in
this declaration of trust and/or in the acceptance of beneficial interest
thereunder shall be construed, interpreted or applied as intending to grant, or
to grant to the trustees hereunder an exclusive franchise in relation to any
powers, rights or authority of the trustees under this trust instrument.
SECTION 9: TERMINATION.
(A)This trust shall be irrevocable by the trustors and shall terminate:
(1)When the purposes set forth in
Section 3 of this instrument shall have been fully executed and fulfilled;
(2)In the event of the happening of any event or circumstance that would
prevent the purposes from being executed and fulfilled and all of the trustees
and the governing body of the municipality having beneficial interest
hereunder, with the approval of the governor of the State of Oklahoma, shall
agree that such event or circumstance has taken place: provided, however, that
all indebtedness of the trust shall have been paid; or
(3)In the manner provided by 60 O.S. § 180;
Provided, however, that this trust shall not be terminated by voluntary action
if there be outstanding indebtedness or fixed-term obligations of the trustees,
unless all owners of such indebtedness or obligations, or someone authorized by
them so to do, shall have consented in writing to such termination.
(B)Upon the termination of this trust, the trustees shall proceed to wind up
the affairs of the trust, and, after payment of all debts and obligations out
of trust assets, to the extent thereof, shall distribute the residue of the
trust assets to the beneficiary hereunder as provided in Section 3(A)(7) of
this instrument. Upon final distribution as aforesaid the powers, duties and
authority of the trustees hereunder shall cease.
SECTION 10: PARTIAL INEFFECTIVENESS.
The invalidity or ineffectiveness for any reason of any one or more words,
phrases, clauses, paragraphs, subsections or sections of this instrument shall
not affect the remaining portions hereof so long as such remaining portions
shall constitute a rational instrument. Any such invalid or ineffective portion
was inserted conditionally upon its being valid and effective only; and this
instrument shall be construed as if such invalid or ineffective portion had not
been inserted herein.
SECTION 11: COVENANT.
The provisions hereof shall be binding upon the undersigned, their heirs,
executors, administrators, and assigns.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands, executing this Declaration
of Trust in several multiple originals, all of which constitute one and the
same instrument, this 21st day of April, 1964.
   /s/   Otho Bartlett
      J.L. Hays
      Robert V. Willis
      L.A.S. Johnston, M.D.
      J.D. Welch
      Louis E. Dull
      T.M. Blaylock
      Turner Hopkins
      Dewayne Sherrin
Trustees
ACCEPTANCE OF BENEFICIAL INTEREST
On this 21st day of April, 1964, pursuant to resolution duly adopted by its
City Council, the City of Holdenviile, Oklahoma, and the City Council as the
governing body of the city, hereby accept, for and on behalf of the city, the
beneficial interest in the trust created by the within and foregoing
declaration of trust, in all respects in accordance with the terms of the
declaration of trust.
CITY OF HOLDENVILLE, OKLAHOMA
      by Otho Bartlett
         Mayor
Attest: (Seal)
   Leonard L. Berryman
   City Clerk
STATE OF OKLAHOMA, COUNTY OF HUGHES, SS:
On this 21st day of April, 1964, before me, the undersigned notary public in
and for the county and state, personally appeared Otho Bartlett, L.A.S.
Johnston, Robert V. Willis, J.L. Hays, Dewayne Sherrin, Louis Dull, J.D. Welch,
Turner Hopkins, and T.M. Blaylock to me known to be the identical persons who
executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged to me that they
executed the same as their free and voluntary act and deed, for the uses and
purposes therein set forth.
      Sonda Kay Needham
      Notary Public
         My Commission expires August 2, 1967
(Prior Code, App. 3)
CHAPTER 54: SANITARY SPRAYING FEE
Section
   
54.01   Levy of charge
   
54.02   Collection and accounting
   
54.03   Penalties authorized for nonpayment
§ 54.01 LEVY OF CHARGE.
   A charge may be levied in an amount set by the City Manager and City Council
per month for the months of June, July and August of each year for sanitary
spraying by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1)
§ 54.02 COLLECTION AND ACCOUNTING.
   This charge shall be paid as provided herein by each and any person or
corporation which purchases water from the city. This charge shall be collected
and accounted for by the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall cause the charge or
fee to be added and affixed to each and every water bill, which is prepared in
the office of the City Clerk for those months.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2)
§ 54.03 PENALTIES AUTHORIZED FOR NONPAYMENT.
   The same penalties and methods of collections provided for by the ordinances
of the city for nonpayment of water bills are hereby authorized and provided
for in the collection of nonpayment of this charge or fee for sanitary
spraying.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3)
Cross-reference:
   Further provisions, see
Chapter 50 of this title
CHAPTER 55: TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
Section
   
55.01   Fee levied on telephone exchanges
   
55.02   Fee in lieu of other fees, taxes
§ 55.01 FEE LEVIED ON TELEPHONE EXCHANGES.
   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm, or corporation operating a telephone exchange in the
city in an amount equal to 2% of the gross revenues for each current year for
exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the limits of
the city to compensate the city for the expenses incurred and services rendered
incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision, police regulations,
and police control of the construction of lines and equipment of the telephone
company in the city. The inspection fee and charge shall be on a calendar year
basis and shall be due and payable to the city annually as set by the Council
for the whole of the calendar year next preceding the date and shall be paid
into and appropriated and expended from the general fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1)
§ 55.02 FEE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES, TAXES.
   During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this chapter by
the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege, and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the city is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space, or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police calls
systems of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-2)
CHAPTER 56: GAS UTILITY FEE
Section
   
56.01   Utility fee levied
   
56.02   Not applicable to franchisees
   
56.03   Payment of fee
   
56.04   Failure to pay fee
   
56.05   Fee constitutes lien
§ 56.01 UTILITY FEE LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual fee of 2% upon the gross
receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas in the city, which tax
shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation or excise tax
levied by such city, all as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-1)
§ 56.02 NOT APPLICABLE TO FRANCHISEES.
   The fee levied under this chapter shall, when levied, apply to all persons,
firms, associations or corporations engaged in business of furnishing gas
within the city limits, except it shall not apply to any person, firm,
association, or corporation operating under a valid franchise from the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2)
§ 56.03 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   The fee levied under this chapter on gas receipts shall be levied for a term
of not less than one year and shall be payable monthly and placed in the
General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-3)
§ 56.04 FAILURE TO PAY FEE.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such fee when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such city and,
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the fee, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-4)
§ 56.05 FEE CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   The fee so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the city of any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the
business of selling gas within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-5)
CHAPTER 57: WASTEWATER TRANSPORTERS AND PRETREATMENT FACILITIES
Section
   
57.01   Definitions
   
57.02   Purpose
   
57.03   Scope and applicability
   
57.04   New facilities
   
57.05   Existing facilities
   
57.06   Design size and location
   
57.07   Permits
   
57.08   Requirements for generators
   
57.09   Requirements for grease transporters
   
57.10   Permit fees
   
57.11   Surcharge fee
   
57.12   Sampling and analysis fees
   
57.13   Enforcement
   
57.14   Repealer
   
57.15   Severability
   
57.16   Emergency clause
§ 57.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The person or persons designated by the City Manager
`to enforce compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The Code
Enforcement/Building Inspector is designated as ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   FACILITY. A hospital, nursing home and school that generates FOGs; may also
be referred to as a GENERATOR. Multiple housing developments of more than ten
units that are single metered, and multiple housing units in excess of 20
units, regardless of metering shall constitute a FACILITY.
   FISCAL YEAR. A 12-month period commencing July 1, and ending June 30.
   FOG(s). Fats, oils and grease.
   GENERATOR. Any facility that produces FOGs; may also be referred to as a
FACILITY.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR. A device that separates, traps and holds FOGs from the
wastewater discharge from a facility to prevent the FOGs from entering the
POTW; may also be referred to as a GREASE TRAP.
   GREASE TRANSPORTER. Any person, firm or corporation who engages in the
business of cleaning grease interceptors and/or the transportation of the waste
removed therefrom.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works; also known as the City of Holdenville
wastewater treatment plant.
   SUPERNATANT. The clear fluid above a sediment or precipitate.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-1) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006; Ord. 839, passed 10-21-
2014)
§ 57.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter sets forth the standards and requirements concerning the
installation of grease interceptors for facilities which prepare or serve food,
that may potentially discharge any solid or viscous pollutants into the POTW.
The purpose of this chapter is to control the discharge of solid or viscous
pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction to the flow in the POTW
resulting in interference (see C.F.R. § 403.5(b)(3)). A violation of this
chapter does not require a criminal mental state nor is ignorance an excuse.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-2) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.03 SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to all generators of FOGs who are connected to the POTW
and to the transporters of such wastes. All generators and transporters shall
comply with all local, state and federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-3) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.04 NEW FACILITIES.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, all newly constructed
facilities shall be required to install and properly maintain, at their
expense, an underground grease interceptor with a 500 gallon minimum storage
capacity, unless a higher minimum capacity is determined to be necessary as
hereinafter provided. The first compartment of such interceptor shall have a
detention time of not less than 15 minutes at peak flow. The second compartment
shall have a detention time of not less than five minutes at peak flow. The
enforcement officer shall approve minimum sizing, installation, retrofitting
and whether or not the grease interceptor is required to be over 500 gallons.
All new facilities shall install a sampling port to allow the city to
conveniently obtain samples directly from the interceptor.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-4) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.05 EXISTING FACILITIES.
   All existing facilities that generate fats, oils or grease shall be required
to install, operate and maintain a grease interceptor complying with §
57.04 of this chapter within one year of the effective date hereof. All
existing facilities which already have grease interceptors shall install a
sampling port accessible to the city within 180 days of the effective date
hereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-5) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.06 DESIGN SIZE AND LOCATION.
   The design, installation, retrofitting, and location of grease interceptors
will be in accordance with the Plumbing Code as interpreted by the building
inspector. Other grease removal devices or remedies shall not be allowed unless
approved in writing by the building inspector as in compliance with city
requirements. Bacteria, enzymes or other additives shall not be allowed for the
treatment of FOGs in any form or manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-6) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.07 PERMITS.
   (A)   Generally. All facilities that prepare or serve food that may
potentially introduce FOGs into the POTW are required to obtain a grease
discharge permit. It is unlawful for any facility to knowingly discharge FOGs
in amounts that cause, or may cause, obstruction to the flow in the POTW
resulting in interference. False or misleading information on an application
may result in the denial of the permit application, revocation of the permit if
it has been issued, and/or the termination of water and sewer service, in
addition to other penalties as provided in this code.
   (B)   Length. When an application has been reviewed and approved by the
enforcement officer according to all rules in this chapter, and all appropriate
fees have been paid, a permit will be issued for a period of not more than five
years from the date of approval. The permit holder shall apply for a renewal of
the permit at least 180 days prior to the permit’s expiration date. A permit
may be terminated at any time when the enforcement officer finds that the
permit holder has violated the conditions of the permit.
   (C)   Transfer. Permits are provided to individual services and facilities.
No permit may be assigned, sold or transferred. In the event of the transfer of
ownership of a facility, a new permit shall be required.
   (D)   Modifications. The enforcement officer shall have the authority to
modify or change any permits issued, including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Revise standards to maintain compliance with changing local, state
and federal regulations, requirements, and standards that may apply;
      (2)   A violation of any terms of the permit;
      (3)   A change in the permit holder’s permit;
      (4)   To reflect a change in ownership or facility location; and
      (5)   A request in writing from the permit holder to have the permit
modified, reissued or terminated.
   (E)   Duty to comply. The permit holder shall comply with all conditions of
this permit. Failure to comply with the conditions of the permit shall be
grounds for enforcement remedies described in this chapter or any other
ordinance dealing with the city’s POTW.
   (F)   Duty to mitigate. The permit holder shall take the necessary steps to
minimize or correct any adverse impact to the POTW or the environment resulting
from noncompliance with the permit issued, including, but not limited to,
accelerated or additional monitoring as necessary to determine the nature and
impact of the noncompliance.
   (G)   Termination. A permit may be terminated for the following reasons, or
for any other valid reason as determined by the enforcement officer:
      (1)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (2)   Refusing to allow timely access to the facility premises and
records;
      (3)   Failure to pay fines;
      (4)   Failure to pay fees;
      (5)   Failure to meet compliance schedules; or
      (6)   Imminent hazard, injury, harm or reasonable likelihood of harm, to
the POTW.
   (H)   Property rights. The issuance of a permit does not convey any property
rights of any sort, or any exclusive privileges, nor does it authorize any
injury to private property or any invasion of personal rights, nor any
violation of federal, state or local law or regulations.
   (I)   Compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
Compliance with a permit issued under this chapter does not relieve the permit
holder from the obligation to comply with all applicable local, state and
federal pretreatment standards and requirements including any such standards or
requirements that may become effective during or after the term of the permit.
   (J)   Compliance date. Every facility and generator shall be in compliance
with all the standards and requirements of this chapter within one year of the
effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-7) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR GENERATORS.
   (A)   Maintenance. It is the responsibility of the owner, occupant and user
of every facility to properly maintain, operate and clean the required grease
interceptor. This includes the complete removal or pumping of all liquids,
sludge, solids and wastewater on the surface and the bottom of the grease
interceptor. Generators shall not be allowed to decant or pump the supernatant
or liquid fraction back into the grease interceptor for purposes of reducing
the volume of waste to be disposed. The facility shall only be allowed to use
the transporters that have been permitted by the city. A list of these
transporters may be obtained from the enforcement officer. Grease interceptors
will be emptied as often as needed, but a minimum of once every three months.
If the enforcement officer inspects the generator, and determines that the
grease interceptor or trap needs to be cleaned, then the generator shall be
required to clean it immediately.
   (B)   Maintenance log and reporting. All facilities with a grease
interceptor shall maintain a current maintenance log for the preceding 12-month
period. The facility will retain this log for a minimum of three years. This
log will be available in a conspicuous location for inspection and will be
immediately provided to a representative of the city who may be performing such
inspections. The reporting date will be from January 1 through December 31. The
facility will be required to send a copy of the maintenance log to the
enforcement officer at the end of the reporting year. The enforcement officer
must receive this copy no later than January 31 for the previous year.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-8) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.09 REQUIREMENTS FOR GREASE TRANSPORTERS.
   (A)   Permit. All grease transporters shall be required to obtain a permit
annually from the City Clerk on a form to be provided by the enforcement
officer.
   (B)   Pumping. It is the responsibility of the grease transporters to
properly clean the grease interceptors as required by this chapter. The
cleaning of the grease interceptor shall include the complete pump out of the
contents of the grease interceptor. Decanting of the supernatant back into the
interceptor will not be allowed. Discharging of the grease interceptor waste
back into any part of the POTW or any privately owned sewer collection system
is prohibited. The transporter will dispose of the grease interceptor waste in
accordance with all local, state and federal regulations.
   (C)   Manifest. The manifest will be used to track the grease interceptor
waste from the initial generation of the waste to the final disposal. It will
be the responsibility of the transporter to oversee the manifest. A book of
manifests will be issued to each transporter, which has been permitted, by the
city. The transporter will ensure that all parts of the form are completed
entirely. The transporter shall submit a copy of the manifest to the generator,
the enforcement officer, and the disposal site. All generators and transporters
shall keep a copy of each manifest on file for a period of three years.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-9) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.10 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be established to recover the cost incurred by the city in
permitting all generators and transporters. The City Council shall set the
costs of the permits annually by motion or resolution. Permit fees shall be due
once a year from all generators and transporters.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-10) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.11 SURCHARGE FEE.
   A surcharge fee of $500 will be charged for any sample that is between 200
milligrams per liter and 300 milligrams per liter. A fee of $500, plus $1 per
pound, will be charged for any sample over 300 milligrams per liter (300 mg/l).
The following formula will be used to determine the pounds of FOGs: Average
monthly water usage x mg/l (over 300 mg/l) x 8.34 lbs/gal = lbs of FOGs x $1.00
per pound. This fee will be established to recover the cost of the wastewater
treatment plant to remove FOGs from the wastewater. The amount of FOGs being
discharged into the POTW by a facility will be determined by sampling the
discharge of the facility and having the sample analyzed for the amounts of
FOGs. Samples will be taken from the facility at the discretion of the
enforcement officer. An additional sample may be requested by the facility, but
that facility will be responsible for the cost of any additional analysis and
sampling requested.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-11) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.12 SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS FEES.
   (A)   There will be no sampling or analysis fee for any generator who is in
compliance with all sewer ordinances and resolutions.
   (B)   If any generator is out of compliance with any of the sewer ordinances
or resolutions, the generator will be charged a fee of $50 for sampling, $50
for FOGs, $50 for BOD, $50 for TSS, and $20 for pH.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-12) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Permit fees. The payment schedule, late fees and enforcement for
permit fees will occur as listed.
      (1)   A permit fee will be paid before the initial permit is issued.
      (2)   A permit fee will be due every year on January 1 until the
expiration date of the permit.
      (3)   A permit fee that has not been received by January 31 will receive
a notice of violation and a late fee of one-half the amount of the permit fee.
      (4)   A permit fee that has not been received by February 28 will receive
a final notice of violation and a late fee equivalent of the permit fee. In
this notice will be the final due date which will be March 14.
      (5)   If the permit fee has not been received by March 14 then the permit
will be terminated.
      (6)   To receive a new permit, the generator or transporter will be
required to reapply.
      (7)   A new permit will not be issued until all previous fees have been
paid.
      (8)   A facility or transporter operating without a permit will be in
violation. This will be reason for termination of water and sewer service.
   (B)   Surcharge fee due date. The payment schedule, late fees and
enforcement for surcharge fees will occur as listed.
      (1)   The surcharge fee will be due on the fifteenth of each month.
      (2)   If a surcharge fee has not been received by the fifteenth of the
next month a notice of violation will be issued along with a late fee of $25.
      (3)   If a payment has not been received on the fifteenth of the second
month a second notice of violation will be issued along with a late fee of $50
in addition to the first late fee.
      (4)   If the payment has not been received within 15 days after the
second notice of violation, the permit will be terminated.
      (5)   The facility will then be required to apply for a new permit.
      (6)   A new permit will not be issued until all previous surcharge fees,
new permit fees and late fees are paid.
      (7)   A facility or transporter operating without a permit will be in
violation and will be fined up to $200. Each day on which a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Refusal to pay fines and penalties. A refusal from a permit holder to
pay a fine or comply with any of the city sewer ordinances or resolutions will
be a violation and will subject the facility to termination of water and sewer
service, in addition to other fines and penalties as may be provided by city
ordinances.
   (D)   Recovery of costs incurred.
      (1)   Any permit holder violating any of the provisions of an issued
permit or any other city ordinances or resolutions, causing damage to, or
inhibiting the city wastewater disposal system shall be liable to the city for
any expense, loss or damage caused by such violation discharge.
      (2)   The city will bill the permit holder for the costs incurred by the
city for any cleaning, repair, or replacement work caused by the violation.
      (3)   Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall be cause for termination of
water and sewer service.
   (E)   Authority. The Mayor shall have the authority to refuse any wastewater
from any generator that does not comply with any of the city water and sewer
ordinances and to terminate water and sewer services.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-13) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.14 REPEALER.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed to
the extent of the conflict only.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-14) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.15 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, subsection, sentence, provision, clause or phrase hereof
be held invalid, void or unconstitutional for any reason, such holding shall
not render invalid, void or unconstitutional any other section, subsection,
sentence, provision, clause or phrase of this chapter, and the same are deemed
for this purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-15) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
§ 57.16 EMERGENCY CLAUSE.
   It being immediately necessary for the preservation of the peace, health,
safety and public good of the city and the inhabitants thereof that the
provisions of this chapter be put into full force and effect, an emergency is
hereby declared to exist, by reason, whereof, this chapter shall take effect
and be in full force and effect after its passage, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-12-16) (Ord. 621, passed 11-7-2006)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
73.   PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
      
74.   VEHICLE CONDITION; EQUIPMENT
      
75.   PEDESTRIANS
      
76.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Traffic Code controlling
   
70.03   Adoption of State Traffic Code
   
70.04   Definitions
   
70.05   Push carts and animals; compliance
   
70.06   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices
   
70.07   Public officers and employees; obey traffic regulations
   
70.08   Persons working on streets; exceptions
   
70.09   Maintenance and construction zones
   
70.10   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.11   Seat belts and child passenger restraints
Enforcement
   
70.25   Enforcement by Police Department
   
70.26   Direction of traffic
   
70.27   Obedience to police and fire officials
   
70.28   Emergency and experimental regulations
   
70.29   Accidents, duty to stop
   
70.30   Traffic citations; issuance and compliance
   
70.31   Licenses required
   
70.32   Permitting unauthorized person to drive
   
70.33   Insurance or certificate required
   
70.34   Obedience to Traffic Code
Vehicle Impoundment
   
70.45   Purpose and effect
   
70.46   Place of impoundment
   
70.47   Duration of impoundment
   
70.48   Authority to impound vehicles
   
70.49   Disabled vehicles
   
70.50   Vehicles on bridge
   
70.51   Arrest and detention of driver of vehicle
   
70.52   Vehicle constitutes traffic hazard
   
70.53   Illegal trespass by vehicle
   
70.54   Vehicles parked overtime
   
70.55   Vehicles blocking fire exits or hydrants
   
70.56   Vehicles parked in intersection
   
70.57   Stolen vehicles; recovery by police
   
70.58   Vehicles with outstanding traffic citations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all amendments hereto may be cited or referred to as the
“Traffic Code, City of Holdenville” and may so appear upon all official
documents, records or instruments.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC CODE CONTROLLING.
   Except as specifically provided by law as set forth in this title, the
traffic code shall be controlling in the use of city streets, alleys,
thoroughfares, parks, parkways or any other public right-of-way or municipally
owned land, by pedestrians and by vehicles of every kind whether self-propelled
or otherwise and whether moving or at rest.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 70.03 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE.
   The provisions of the state motor vehicle code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.,
and particularly the rules of the road, 47 O.S. §§ 11-101 et seq., are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and are enforceable by the city
within the city limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 70.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Any narrow highway ordinarily located in the interior portion of
platted blocks and ordinarily used for service or delivery purposes at the rear
of stores, dwellings or buildings.
   AMBULANCE. A motor vehicle constructed, reconstructed or arranged for the
purpose of transporting ill, sick or injured persons.
   BICYCLE. A device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two tandem wheels.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and
used for the transportation of persons, and every motor vehicle, other than a
taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to, and including, a highway if
there are buildings within 600 feet of the highway in use for business or
industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks or office
buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
   CENTER LANE. Any clearly marked center lane. If the CENTER LANE is not
marked and no cars are parked on the roadway, then the CENTER LANE is equally
distanced between the curbs or travelled portion of the roadway. In the event a
vehicle or vehicles are parked on one side of the roadway only, then the CENTER
LANE is equally distanced from the side of the parked vehicle or vehicles
toward the street and curb on the opposite roadway. If vehicles be parked on
each side of the roadway, then the CENTER LANE is equally distanced from the
edges of the parked vehicles.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs; or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway. CROSSWALK also means any portion of a roadway at an
intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
   DOUBLE PARK. Parking or stopping a vehicle on the roadway side of another
vehicle already parked adjacent to the edge or curbing of the roadway.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of
a vehicle.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseeable occurrence of temporary duration causing or
resulting in an abnormal increase in traffic volume, cessation or stoppage of
traffic movement, or creation of conditions hazardous to normal traffic
movement, including fire, storm, accident, riot or spontaneous assembly of
large numbers of pedestrians in such a manner as to impede the flow of traffic.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police vehicles and
ambulances.
   HIGHWAY. See definition of STREET.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadway
of two streets, which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets join at any
other angle, may come in conflict; or
      (2)   Where a street includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided street by an intersecting street
shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such intersecting
street also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of
two roadways of such streets shall be regarded as separate INTERSECTIONS.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LIMIT LINES. Boundaries of parking areas, loading zones and nontraffic areas
and lines indicating the proper place for stopping where stops are required.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. See definition of CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or material. A FREIGHT
CURB LOADING ZONE is a loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during
the loading or unloading of freight; a PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE is a loading
zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of
passengers.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   MOTORCYCLE, MOTOR SCOOTER and MOTOR BICYCLE. A motor vehicle, other than a
tractor, having a seat or saddle for the use of the driver and designed to
travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground, but excluding
a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean
central standard time, or daylight saving time, as may be in current use in the
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning,
or guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers, provided such loading and
unloading is in an authorized place.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Municipal Police Department, or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or to make arrests for
violation of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY. A way or place in private ownership or leading to
property in private ownership and used for vehicular traffic by the owner and
those having express or implied permission from the owner.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars other than streetcars
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street improved, designed, ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulders. In the event a street includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall refer to
any such roadway, separately, but not to all such roadways, collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times, while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SCHOOL ZONE. All streets or portions of streets immediately adjacent to a
school, or school ground, where same is adjacent and for a distance of 300 feet
in each direction.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines or at lateral
lines of the roadway and adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle whether occupied or not.
   STOP. When required, shall mean the complete cessation from movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
traffic signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH STREET or HIGHWAY. A street, or boulevard or highway or portion
thereof at the entrances to which:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required
by law to come to a full stop before entering or crossing; and
      (2)   Stop signs are erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances, either singularly or together, while using any highway or street
for purpose of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR SIGNALS. Any device legally authorized and used
for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   U-TURN. A turn by which a vehicle reverses its course of travel on the same
street.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of a quarter mile or
more.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is, or
may be, transported, or drawn, upon a highway or street, except devices moved
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 70.05 PUSH CARTS AND ANIMALS; COMPLIANCE.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway,
and every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 70.06 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   (A)   Subject to regulations applicable to pedestrians. No person upon
roller skates or skateboards, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing, such person shall be subject to
all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply upon any street while set
aside as a play street as authorized by ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, any state, county,
city or governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles. It is
unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the provisions of this title,
except as otherwise permitted in this title by state statute. This title shall
not apply to the military forces of the United States and organizations of the
national guard when performing any military duty.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Persons excepted. Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions
of this title, except those relating to reckless driving and driving while
intoxicated, shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons,
motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in construction,
maintenance, or repair of public utilities.
   (B)   Warning signs or signals on streets. All street or highway and public
utility operations shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals,
devices or flag persons.
   (C)   Traveling to and from work. The provisions of this title shall apply
to any of the persons and vehicles exempted by this section when traveling to
and from such work.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8)
§ 70.09 MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   Authority to close streets.
      (1)   City personnel or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the city, and city personnel and utility companies, when installing,
improving or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the City Clerk, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction.
      (2)   In exercising this authority, the appropriate personnel, contractor
or utility company shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices
and barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   (B)   Compliance with closure; exception.
      (1)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) of this section and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over, or around such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to persons
entering the closed area or zone for the protection of lives or property.
      (3)   Persons having their places of residence or places of business
within the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at
their own risk.
   (C)   Warning devices required.
      (1)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or
utility line or facility is being performed under traffic, the city personnel,
contractor or utility company concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected,
traffic control devices to warn and guide the public.
      (2)   Every person using the street shall obey all signs, signals,
markings, flag persons or other traffic control devices which are placed to
regulate, control and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9)
§ 70.10 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Drivers of emergency vehicles; regulations.
      (1)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law or ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to
the conditions stated in this section.
      (2)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may do any of the
following when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or
ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm:
         (a)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         (c)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as life or property is
not endangered; or
         (d)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specific directions.
      (3)   The exemptions granted in this section to an authorized emergency
vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of
audible and visual signals as required by law, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      (4)   The provisions of this section shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (B)   Vehicle operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
      (1)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws
of this state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-
of- way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
   (C)   Notify Police Department of emergency run. It is unlawful for any
person to drive in the streets of the city any emergency vehicle, including,
but not limited to, police patrol cars, fire trucks, ambulances, sheriff’s
cars, highway patrol cars and police motorcycles, while sounding a siren, horn,
bell or other noise making device designed to forewarn the populace of the
approach of such vehicle, without first advising the Police Department by
contacting the police dispatcher on duty of his or her intention to make an
emergency run and giving:
      (1)   The name of the person making the run;
      (2)   The destination;
      (3)   The route which they intend to travel; and
      (4)   The nature of the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10)
§ 70.11 SEAT BELTS AND CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM. An infant or child passenger restraint
system that meets the federal standards as set by 49 C.F.R. § 571.213.
      PASSENGER CAR. This term means VEHICLE, as defined in 47 O.S. § 1102,
except that PASSENGER CAR shall not include trucks, truck tractors,
recreational vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles or vehicles used
primarily for farm use and licensed pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. §
1134. For purposes of this definition, TRUCKS shall not include pickup trucks.
   (B)   Mandatory use of seat belts; exceptions; penalty.
      (1)   Use required. Every operator and front seat passenger of a
passenger car operated in the city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
safety seat belt system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle when
manufactured pursuant to federal motor vehicle safety standard 49 C.F.R. §
571.208.
      (2)   Exceptions. This division (B) shall not apply to:
         (a)   An operator or passenger of a passenger car in which the
operator or passenger possesses a written verification from a physician
licensed in this state that he or she is unable to wear a safety belt system
for medical reasons;
         (b)   An operator of a motor vehicle who is a route carrier of the
U.S. Postal Service; or
         (c)   Any passenger vehicle which was manufactured or assembled before
the 1966 models, unless such vehicle is now equipped with a properly adjusted
and fastened safety seat belt system.
      (3)   Enforcement restriction. No law enforcement officer shall make
routine stops of motorists for the purpose of enforcing this division (B).
      (4)   Penalty. Any person convicted of violating this division (B) shall
be punished by a fine and court costs not exceeding $20.
   (C)   Mandatory use of child passenger system; exceptions; penalty.
      (1)   Driver responsibility. Every driver, when transporting a child
under eight years of age in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets,
or highways of this city, shall provide for the protection of said child by
properly using a child passenger restraint system as follows:
         (a)   A child under four years of age shall be properly secured in a
child passenger restraint system. The child passenger restraint system shall be
rear-facing until the child reaches two years of age or until the child reaches
the weight or height limit of the rear-facing child passenger restraint system
as allowed by the manufacturer of the child passenger restraint system,
whichever occurs first; and
         (b)   A child at least four years of age but younger than eight years
of age, if not taller than four feet nine inches in height, shall be properly
secured in either a child passenger restraint system or child booster seat.
      (2)   Use required. If a child is eight years of age or is taller than
four feet nine inches in height, a seat belt properly secured to the vehicle
shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
      (3)   Exceptions. The provisions of this division (C) shall not apply to:
         (a)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
         (b)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
         (c)   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in
use;
         (d)   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are
unable to be placed in such devices, provided there is written documentation
from a physician of such medical reason; or
         (e)   The transportation of a child who weighs more than 40 pounds and
who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a lap
safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with combination
lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and shoulder safety
belts in the back seat are being used by other children who weigh more than 40
pounds. Provided, however, for purposes of this division (C), back seat shall
include all seats located behind the front seat of a vehicle operated by a
licensed child care facility or church. Provided further, there shall be a
rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight requirements of this
division (C) if at the request of any law enforcement officer, the licensed
child care facility or church provides the officer with a written statement
verified by the parent or legal guardian that the child weighs more than 40
pounds.
      (4)   Violations; evidentiary restrictions; penalties.
         (a)   A violation of the provisions of this division (C) shall be
admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages unless the
plaintiff in such action or proceeding is a child under 16 years of age.
         (b)   In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of
damages.
         (c)   A person who is certified as a child passenger safety technician
and who in good faith provides inspection, adjustment or educational services
regarding child passenger restraint systems shall not be liable for civil
damages resulting from any act or omission in providing such services, other
than acts or omissions constituting gross negligence or willful or wanton
misconduct.
         (d)   Any person convicted of violating divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of
this section shall be punished by a fine of $50 and shall pay all court costs
thereof. This fine and costs shall be suspended in the case of the first
offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition by loan of a child passenger
restraint system. Provided, the State Department of Public Safety shall not
assess points to the driving record of any person convicted of a violation of
this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 6-2-16) (Ord. 560, passed 6-2-1987)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.25 ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It is the duty of the officers of the Police Department or any officers that
are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic laws of the
city and all the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the city.
Officers of the Department shall make arrests for traffic violations,
investigate accidents and cooperate with other officers in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the Department
by this title and any other traffic ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 70.26 DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Hand or voice.
      (1)   Officers of the Police Department or any officers designated by the
Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand, or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances. In the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
      (2)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the
immediate vicinity.
   (B)   Unauthorized persons. No unauthorized person shall direct or attempt
to direct traffic, except in case of emergency where no officer is present.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)
§ 70.27 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Council authority; time limit for devices. The City Council, by motion
or resolution, is empowered to adopt regulations necessary to make effective
the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the city and to make temporary or
experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions. No such
temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect for more than 90
days.
   (B)   Testing devices. The City Council may have traffic control devices
tested under actual conditions of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 70.29 ACCIDENTS, DUTY TO STOP.
   (A)   Duties of driver involved in accident. The driver of any vehicle
involved in an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage
to any vehicle or property shall immediately stop his or her vehicle at the
scene of such accident, or as close thereto as possible, return to and remain
at the scene of the accident until he or she has given his or her name, address
and the registration of his or her vehicle and shall upon request exhibit his
or her driver’s license to the person injured or the driver or occupant of, or
person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render to any person
injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying or
making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician, surgeon or
hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that this
treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person. Each
such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Report to police. The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner
involved in an accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or
in which it is apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in
excess of $300 shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a police
officer or to the Police Department.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the
requirements of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, may be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11)
§ 70.30 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; ISSUANCE AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Issuance of citation tags.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to supply
police officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original
and at least two duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this title.
      (2)   Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
      (3)   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to
present such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified
thereon.
      (4)   Nothing in this division (A) shall be construed to abridge the
power of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him or her into
custody.
   (B)   Failure to obey citation. It is unlawful and an offense for any person
to violate his or her written promise to appear, given to an officer upon the
issuance of a traffic citation regardless of the disposition of the charge for
which citation was originally issued.
   (C)   Failure to comply with citation attached to parked vehicle. If a
violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking under the traffic
laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation affixed to
such motor vehicle within a period of five days, the Clerk of the Municipal
Court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the traffic citation
was affixed a letter informing him or her of the violation and warning him or
her that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five days, a
warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two or more such traffic
citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the traffic citations
have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the
letter provided in this section.
   (D)   Presumption in reference to illegal parking.
      (1)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
      (2)   The presumption in division (D)(1) of this section shall apply only
when the procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed.
   (E)   Illegal to cancel or solicit traffic citations. It is unlawful for any
person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any
manner other than is provided by this chapter.
   (F)   Records of citations, warrants, complaints.
      (1)   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of the city, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his or her immediate superior officer, who shall cause the
original to be delivered to the municipal court.
      (2)   Upon the filing of the original citation in the municipal court,
the citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued
by the municipal court which are delivered to the Police Department for
service, and of the final disposition of the warrants.
      (4)   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public
employee shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy
thereof, or the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation,
complaint, or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this chapter.
   (G)   Court records; abstract sent to state.
      (1)   The municipal judge shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of every
official action by the court or its traffic violations bureau in reference
thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
      (2)   Within ten days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this chapter or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the municipal judge or Clerk
of the Court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of Public Safety a
certified abstract of the court’s record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
      (3)   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the State
Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, the
registration number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the
date of hearing, the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the
amount of the fine or forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12)
§ 70.31 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Driver’s license.
      (1)   Possession of valid license.
         (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the highways
without having in his or her possession at all times, when operating such motor
vehicle, an unrevoked or unsuspended operator’s or chauffeur’s license as
required by the laws of the state, unless such person is specifically exempted
from such laws by the provisions thereof. No person charged with violating this
section shall be convicted if he or she produces in court an operator’s or
chauffeur’s license issued to him or her and valid at the time of his or her
arrest.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any manner in
violation of any restriction that may be imposed in a restricted license issued
to him or her with respect to the type of, or special mechanical control
devices required on a motor vehicle or any other restriction applicable to the
licensee as the state may determine.
      (2)   Operation on invalid license; penalty. No person shall operate a
motor vehicle when his or her privilege to do so is cancelled, suspended,
revoked or denied. Any person convicted of violating this division (A) shall be
punished by a fine as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each act of driving on the streets or highways as
prohibited by this section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   State license displayed. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any
kind upon a street of the city without a state vehicle license as may be
required by law or to fail to display the state vehicle license as may be
required by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-13)
§ 70.32 PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit any vehicle owned by him or
her or under his or her control to be driven upon any highway by any person who
is not authorized under the provisions of the laws of the state to operate such
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47
O.S. § 7-606.
      OPERATOR’S POLICY. An operator’s policy of liability insurance which
shall insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him
or her by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by him or her of
any motor vehicle not owned by him or her, subject to the same limits of
liability required in an owner’s policy.
      OWNER’S POLICY. An owner’s policy of liability insurance which:
         (a)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate
reference all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
         (b)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other
person, except as provided in division (c) of this definition, using an insured
vehicle with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against
loss from the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
         (c)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing laws; and
         (d)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
      SECURITY.
         (a)   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
         (b)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
         (c)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the State Board for
Property and Casualty Rates, verifying the existence of security required by
the compulsory insurance law of the State of Oklahoma.
   (B)   Proof of insurance required. The owner of a motor vehicle registered
in this state and operating the vehicle within the city’s boundaries, shall
carry in such vehicle at all times a current owner’s security verification form
listing the vehicle, or an equivalent form which has been used by the State
Department of Public Safety which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon
request for inspection by any law enforcement officer and, in case of a
collision, the form shall be shown upon request to any person affected by the
collision.
   (C)   Exceptions. The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or
operator’s security verification form or an equivalent form from the Department
during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such
form for vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the Department of public
safety which reflect a deposit, bond, a self-insurance, or fleet policy;
      (3)   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, or the Oklahoma Corporation Commission;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   (D)   Verification form carried by operator. Every operator of a motor
vehicle registered in this State shall, while operating or using such vehicle
within the city’s boundaries, carry either an operator’s or an owner’s security
verification form issued by a carrier, provided the operator is not excluded
from coverage thereon; or an equivalent form issued by the Department of Public
Safety, reflecting liability coverage.
   (E)   Penalty for failure to produce verification form. An owner or operator
who fails to produce for inspection a valid and current security verification
form or equivalent form which has been issued by the Department upon request of
any peace officer of the Department shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   Suspension or deferral of sentence. A sentence imposed for any
violation of this section may be suspended or deferred in whole or in part by
the court.
   (G)   Providing court with proof of insurance. Any person producing proof in
court that a current security verification form or equivalent form which has
been issued by the Department reflecting this liability coverage for such
person was in force at the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to
dismissal of such charge.
   (H)   Providing abstract of action to state. Upon conviction, bond
forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the Court Clerk shall forward an abstract
to the State Department of Public Safety within ten days reflecting the action
taken by the court.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-15)
§ 70.34 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   Compliance required. It is an offense against the city for any person
to do any act forbidden or to fail to perform any act required by this title.
   (B)   Parental responsibility. It is an offense against the city for the
parent of any child or for the guardian of any ward to authorize or knowingly
permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this title.
   (C)   Vehicle owner allowing violations. It is an offense for any person to
authorize or knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his or her name to
be driven or to stand or to be parked in violation of any of the provisions of
this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-17)
VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
§ 70.45 PURPOSE AND EFFECT.
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from Traffic Law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-1)
§ 70.46 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the City
Council, and to no other place.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-2)
§ 70.47 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Storage of impounded vehicle. Except as otherwise provided, any
vehicle impounded under the authority of this chapter shall be stored and held
safely until an order for its release is received from an officer of the
traffic violations bureau or other proper police officer.
   (B)   Order of release.
      (1)   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned
upon the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
      (2)   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until
all fines and costs due the city because of traffic law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid.
   (C)   Redemption.
      (1)   Impound fee. Any vehicle impounded under the authority of this
section shall be stored and held until a written order for its release, signed
by an authorized officer of the city, has been issued. Such order of release
shall be conditioned upon the payment to the city by the person to whom the
release is issued of an impound fee in the amount of $100. The impoundment fee
is predicated upon an arrest and shall not apply to a lienholder of record, or
accident owner.
      (2)   Impound fees account. There is hereby created within the Police
Fund a special fund into which all impound fees shall be deposited;
expenditures out of which shall be used only to pay for police equipment.
      (3)   Waiver. The Chief of Police has the discretion to waive technical
title requirements if he or she reasonably believes that the person seeking
release either has authority from the owner or is in fact the equitable owner
notwithstanding legal title.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-3) (Ord. 857, passed 9-10-2017)
§ 70.48 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances enumerated.
No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an authorized police
officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-4)
§ 70.49 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-5)
§ 70.50 VEHICLES ON BRIDGE.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any
tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-6)
§ 70.51 ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER OF VEHICLE.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leaves or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-7)
§ 70.52 VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-8)
§ 70.53 ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Impoundment following complaint. An unattended vehicle found to be in
violation of this title may be impounded when the required complaint has been
properly made and filed as provided in this section.
   (B)   Procedure for filing complaint. If a violation of the provisions of
this title occurs, the owner or legal occupant who complains shall sign a
complaint against the person parking the vehicle on the owner’s or legal
occupant’s property, or if the identity of the person parking the vehicle is
unknown, then the complaint may be filed against the registered owner of the
vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the complaining
party is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is
parked or standing.
   (C)   Impoundment by police. Upon filing of the complaint by the property
owner or legal occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the
provisions of this title have been violated, the Police Department shall cause
the vehicle to be impounded from the property and placed in storage.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-9)
§ 70.54 VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-10)
§ 70.55 VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-11)
§ 70.56 VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-12)
§ 70.57 STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE.
   (A)   Impoundment when owner unknown. Whenever a stolen vehicle is located
by police and the registered owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not
exceeding one hour, or cannot be determined from the registration papers or
other identifying media in the vehicle or from records or information available
from reports of stolen cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest
authorized place of impoundment and the registered owner of the vehicle shall
be notified of the location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by
the Police Department.
   (B)   Removal by owner. If the registered owner is identified, located and
notified of the recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the
right to make his or her own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within
the period of one hour from the time he or she is actually notified of its
recovery, and if the owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within
the time specified, the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-13)
§ 70.58 VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which a citation has been issued, pursuant to §
70.30 of this title for violation of an ordinance, and has not been presented
as required, may be impounded if parked in violation of any provision of this
title.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-14)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Every person violating any of the provisions of this title containing the
traffic laws of the city shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined or punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-18)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Rules of the Road
   
71.01   Speed regulations and restrictions
   
71.02   Changing lanes
   
71.03   Driving on right side of roadway required; exceptions
   
71.04   When overtaking on right permitted
   
71.05   Overtaking vehicle on left
   
71.06   Limitations on overtaking on left; exception
   
71.07   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.08   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.09   Following too closely
   
71.10   No passing zones
   
71.11   Fire apparatus, equipment; restrictions
   
71.12   Parades; funeral processions
   
71.13   School zones, school bus regulations
   
71.14   Driving vehicles on sidewalk prohibited; exception
   
71.15   Backing vehicle
   
71.16   Motorcycles, bicycles and motor scooters
   
71.17   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.18   Entering and leaving controlled access highways
   
71.19   Reckless driving
   
71.20   Careless or negligent driving, stopping or parking
   
71.21   Driving in careful and prudent manner
   
71.22   Driving under influence of drugs or alcohol
   
71.23   Driving through safety zone
   
71.24   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.25   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
71.26   Obstructing driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
71.27   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
71.28   Unlawful riding
   
71.29   Private service drives
   
71.30   Eluding police officer
   
71.31   Designation of truck routes
   
71.32   Loads on vehicles
   
71.33   Vehicle approaching or entering intersection
   
71.34   Vehicle turning left at intersection
   
71.35   Yield right-of-way signs; through streets
   
71.36   Vehicles entering highway or traffic
   
71.37   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
71.38   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
71.39   Railroad crossings
   
71.40   Texting while driving
Turning Movements
   
71.55   Turning markers or indicators
   
71.56   Designation of restricted turns
   
71.57   Obedience to no turn signs
   
71.58   U-turns
   
71.59   Position and method of turning
   
71.60   Turning movements and required signals
   
71.61   Means of giving turn signals
   
71.62   Method of giving hand and arm signals
   
71.63   Turns into or from alleys
RULES OF THE ROAD
§ 71.01 SPEED REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions to compliance with maximum speed limit. No vehicle shall be
driven at a greater speed than provided in division (B) of this section upon
any street or highway within the city except:
      (1)   Emergency vehicles being lawfully driven as provided in this title;
      (2)   When a different speed limit is otherwise designated and posted; or
      (3)   When a different speed limit is established in this title.
   (B)   Maximum speed limits designated. Except when a special hazard exists
that requires lower speed for compliance with this title, the limits specified
in this chapter or established as hereinafter authorized shall be maximum
lawful speeds, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in
excess of such maximum limits as follows.
      (1)   Business district; school zone. All vehicles shall be driven at a
rate of speed not to exceed 20 mph in the business district of the city or in
passing any school building during school hours or within one hour before or
after school hours.
      (2)   Slow zone. No vehicle shall travel faster than 15 mph in passing
over any slow sign on the extended property line on which such sign is located,
or at any point on that portion of the street which is designated as a slow
zone.
      (3)   Alleys. No vehicle shall be driven in any part of an alley faster
than seven mph.
      (4)   Certain streets; 30 miles per hour; highway street exception. No
vehicle shall travel in any other part of the city at a rate of speed to exceed
30 mph, except that on Highway Street between Sections Eight and 17, Township
Seven North, Range Nine East, no vehicle shall travel thereon upon the west
one-half mile thereof at a rate of speed to exceed 45 mph and no vehicle shall
travel upon the balance of Highway Street at a rate of speed to exceed 55 mph.
   (C)   Council authority; posting of signs. The City Council, by motion or
resolution, may reduce or increase the speed limits provided in this section,
and when it does so, appropriate signs shall be placed on such streets or parts
of streets indicating the lower or higher speed limit.
   (D)   School zones. No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than the
posted miles per hour, between the hours posted on any street adjacent to any
school in a designated school zone on days when school is in session, unless a
different speed limit or time is otherwise designated and posted.
   (E)   Driving at reasonable and prudent speed.
      (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater or less than is
reasonable or prudent under the conditions then existing, taking into
consideration among other things, the conditions of the vehicle, the traffic,
roadway surface or width, the amount of light or darkness, the presence of
pedestrians in or near the roadways, and the obstruction of views.
      (2)   No person shall drive any vehicle at a speed greater than will
permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance
ahead.
   (F)   Minimum speed requirements; exception. No vehicle shall be driven at
such an unreasonably slow speed in relation to the effective maximum speed
allowed as to constitute a hazard or to interfere with the normal movement of
other traffic except when the slow speed is unavoidable.
   (G)   Obedience to maximum and minimum speed limits. Where official signs
and markings give notice of both maximum and minimum speed limits in effect on
any street, no vehicle shall be driven at rates in excess of the maximum nor
slower than the minimum except as required by an authorized officer or in
obedience to posted official signs.
   (H)   Speed contest prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall engage in, aid or abet any motor vehicle speed
contest or exhibition of speed on any street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall, for the purpose of facilitating or aiding or as an
incident to any motor vehicle speed contest upon any street or highway, in any
manner, obstruct or place any barricade or obstruction upon any street or
highway.
      (3)   When three or more persons assemble to witness or participate in an
unlawful speed contest, such assembly is unlawful assembly and any person who
participates in such unlawful assembly is guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 CHANGING LANES.
   (A)   Marked lanes. Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for traffic, in addition to all other rules consistent
with this division (A), a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical
entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the
driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with safety and has
signaled for a change of course.
   (B)   Unmarked lanes. Where streets or roadways do not have marked traffic
lanes, vehicles shall nevertheless keep in line or follow a straight course as
nearly as practical and shall not weave in and out or turn from side to side
unnecessarily. Vehicles shall move to the right or left only as necessary in
slowing or stopping adjacent to the curb, in passing slow moving vehicles or
making a proper approach for a turn, and this only after the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made safely and has signaled for a change
of course.
   (C)   Multiple lanes. Upon a roadway which has been divided into three
lanes, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking
and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such
center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a
left turn, or where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to
traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to
give notice of such allocation.
   (D)   Slow moving traffic; designated lane. Official signs may be erected
directing slow moving traffic to use a designated lane or designating those
lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the
center of the roadway. Drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every
such sign.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions to driving to right. Upon all roadways of sufficient width,
a vehicle shall be driven to the right of the center of the roadway, except as
follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; and
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Divided roadways. All vehicles shall keep to the right roadway on all
streets or highways which are divided into two roadways.
   (C)   Slow moving vehicles. Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at
less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right hand lane then available
for traffic, or as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 WHEN OVERTAKING ON RIGHT PERMITTED.
   (A)   Conditions for overtaking on right. The driver of a vehicle may
overtake and pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following
conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   Safety measures. The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another
vehicle upon the right only under conditions permitting such movement in
safety. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or
main traveled portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 OVERTAKING VEHICLE ON LEFT.
   (A)   Manner of passing. The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe
distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the street or roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Overtaken vehicle. Except when overtaking and passing on the right is
permitted, the driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in
favor of the overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the
speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON LEFT; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Manner of passing. No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the
center of the street or roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and
is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the
completion of the overtaking and passing without interfering with the safe
operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle
overtaken. In every instance the overtaking vehicle must return to the right
hand side of the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction.
   (B)   Prohibited conditions for overtaking on left. No vehicle at any time
shall be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade, or upon a curve in the
street or highway where the driver’s view along the street or highway is
obstructed; or
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel
or when approaching within 50 feet of or traversing any intersection or
railroad grade crossing.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right. Upon roadways having a width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7)
§ 71.08 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Council authority to designate. The City Council may designate any
road, street, alley, or highway, or any separate roadway under their
jurisdiction for one-way traffic and shall cause appropriate signs giving
notice thereof, to be erected.
   (B)   Compliance with directions. Upon roadway designated and signposted for
one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (C)   Driving to right of island. A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic
island shall be driven only to the right of such island.
   (D)   One-way streets designated. There are established one-way streets in
the city for the protection and safety of school children going to and coming
from public schools in the city. The streets to be designated as one-way
streets and the hours that the streets are designated as one-way streets and
the direction of the flow of traffic are as follows:
      (1)   North Broadway Street is hereby designated as a one-way street and
zoned as a one-way street, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.,
Saturdays and Sundays excluded, and the flow of traffic shall be in the
direction of Ninth Street and away from Tenth Street between these hours;
      (2)   North Oak Street is hereby designated as a one-way street and zoned
as a one-way street, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Saturdays
and Sundays excluded, and the flow of traffic shall be in the direction of
Tenth Street and away from Ninth Street; and
      (3)   Grimes Street, between Butts Street and Warren Street, is hereby
designated as a one-way street between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.,
Saturdays and Sundays excluded, and traffic shall flow in a northerly direction
or in the direction of Butts Street and away from Warren Street between the
hours so designated herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 NO PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   Authority of state and local officials.
      (1)   The State Department of Transportation, as regards state and
federal highways, and the City Council, as regards all other streets, are
hereby authorized to determine those portions of any highway where overtaking
and passing to the left would be especially hazardous, and may, by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones.
      (2)   When such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an
ordinarily observant person, every driver shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Compliance required. Where signs or markings are in place to define a
no passing zone as set forth in division (A) of this section, no driver shall
at any time drive to the left side of the roadway within the no passing zone or
on the left side of any pavement striping designed to mark the no passing zone
throughout its length.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 FIRE APPARATUS, EQUIPMENT; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Following fire apparatus. The driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the
block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
   (B)   Crossing fire hose. No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a Fire Department used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the
consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 PARADES; FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Driving through procession.
      (1)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising
a funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers.
   (B)   Drivers in procession. Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe.
   (C)   Identification of funeral processions. A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the
outside of each vehicle such identifying insignia as may be determined and
designated by the Police Department.
   (D)   Permit required for certain parades, processions. No funeral
procession, or parade containing 200 or more persons or 50 or more vehicles,
except the military forces of the United States and the military forces of this
state, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street except in accordance
with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and such other regulations as are
set forth herein which may apply.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.13 SCHOOL ZONES, SCHOOL BUS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Overtaking and passing in school zones.
      (1)   No driver of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle which is in
motion and being driven in the same direction in any school zone between the
posted hours on all days when schools are in session.
      (2)   Wherever a school zone is located on a multiple lane street which
is divided into three or more clearly marked lanes for traffic or where the
right half of the roadway has been divided into two or more lanes, or on one-
way streets, vehicles shall be allowed to pass slower moving vehicles being
driven in the same direction where passing does not involve a change of lane
movement.
   (B)   Overtaking and passing school bus.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus that is
stopped to take on or discharge school children, and on which the red loading
signals are in operation, shall stop his or her vehicle before it reaches the
school bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then
proceed past such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due
caution for the safety of such school children and other occupants.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle when passing a school bus shall use due
caution for the safety of school children and other occupants of the school
bus.
      (3)   Occupants of the school bus shall have the right-of-way when
crossing the roadway immediately upon leaving the school bus.
   (C)   School bus requirements.
      (1)   The provisions of division (B) of this section shall be applicable
only if the school bus is painted yellow and bears upon the front and rear
thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words “SCHOOL BUS” in letters not
less than eight inches in height which can be removed or covered when the
vehicle is not in use as a school bus.
      (2)   The school bus shall be equipped with four red alternately flashing
warning signal lights, two of which shall be located high on the front and two
high on the rear of the vehicle. The lights shall be a minimum of four inches
in diameter and shall be widely separated.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.14 DRIVING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall drive any vehicle within or upon any sidewalk area except at
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.15 BACKING VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless such movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with any other traffic.
No vehicle shall be backed into an intersection.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   (A)   Limitations on use.
      (1)   No driver of a two wheel or three wheel motor vehicle or bicycle
shall carry any other person upon or within such vehicle on any street or
highway, except as provided in this section:
         (a)   If any two wheel or three wheel motor vehicle with a wheel
diameter of 12 inches or greater or any bicycle shall have either a double
seating device with double foot rests or a side car attachment providing a
separate seat space within such sidecar attachment for each person riding
therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of the
side car, then it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the age
of 16 or older to carry a passenger; and
         (b)   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his or her employee
is permissible.
      (2)   No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden upon any sidewalk of
the city.
      (3)   No rider of a motorcycle, bicycle or motor scooter shall hold onto
any moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
      (4)   A person operating a motor scooter, motorcycle, motor driven cycle,
or motor bicycle, shall ride only on the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto.
      (5)   No driver of a motorcycle or motor scooter shall pass other
vehicles in between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction.
Authorized emergency vehicles are excepted from the provisions of this division
(A).
   (B)   Motorcycle equipment, headgear.
      (1)   In addition to all other requirements, motorcycles and motor
scooters shall be equipped with the following:
         (a)   Handle bars which do not exceed 12 inches in height, measured
from the crown or point of attachment;
         (b)   Two mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of 200 feet to the rear of his or her vehicle;
         (c)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of the vehicle, to stop
and hold the vehicle, including two separate means of applying the brakes. One
means for applying the brakes shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the
front wheel, and one means shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the rear
wheels. All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of the
vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color between
red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than 100 feet to the rear in
normal sunlight, and which shall be activated upon application of the service
brake;
         (d)   A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least
the maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle shall be provided;
         (e)   A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type
provided by the manufacturer;
         (f)   One lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at
least 300 feet in the direction in which the vehicle is proceeding, and one
taillamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a red light
plainly visible from at least 300 feet to the rear. The lights required by this
division (B) shall be burning whenever the vehicle is in motion during the
period from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise and at
any other time when, due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric
conditions, persons and vehicles on the streets are not clearly discernible at
a distance of at least 500 feet ahead; and
         (g)   A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to
protect the operator from foreign objects. In lieu of the windshield, the
operator shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect
him or her from foreign objects.
      (2)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate or ride upon any
vehicle covered under this section unless the person is equipped with and
wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design which complies with
the standards established by the State Department of Public Safety. All crash
helmets shall consist of lining, padding and chin straps and be of the type as
not to distort the view of the driver.
      (3)   No person may operate a motorcycle or motor scooter with the
exhaust system modified so that motor noise is increased greater than that of
the original muffler equipment provided by the manufacturer of the vehicle.
   (C)   Special speed limitation. No person shall operate any motorcycle or
any motor scooter at a speed greater than the speed limit legally posted. In no
event nor at any time may an operator under the age of 16 years operate a
motorcycle or motor scooter, including a motor driven bicycle, at a speed
greater than 35 mph, or at any time or any speed when prohibited by state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.17 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon
a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.18 ENTERING AND LEAVING CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.19 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the sum not to exceed $250, including
costs.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-19)
§ 71.20 CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING, STOPPING OR PARKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be
parked, or stop any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner, or in such a
manner as to endanger life, limb, person or property, or as to interfere with
the lawful movement of traffic or use of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-20)
§ 71.21 DRIVING IN CAREFUL AND PRUDENT MANNER.
   (A)   Careful driving. Any person driving a vehicle on a public road or way
shall drive the same in a careful and prudent manner and at a careful and
prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper, having
due regard to the traffic, surface, and width of the public way and any other
conditions then existing.
   (B)   Attention to driving. The operator of every vehicle while driving
shall devote his or her full time and attention to such driving.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-21)
§ 71.22 DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF DRUGS OR ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Drugs.
      (1)   No person shall drive, operate or be in actual physical control of
any motor vehicle upon any highway who is under the influence of any substance
included in the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substance Act (63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et
seq.). The fact that any person charged with a violation of this provision is
or has been lawfully entitled to use such controlled substance shall not
constitute a defense.
      (2)   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Alcohol.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to drive, operate or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle in the city.
      (2)   Any person who operates a motor vehicle while his or her ability to
operate such motor vehicle is impaired by the consumption of alcohol shall be
subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-22)
§ 71.23 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.24 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-24) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.25 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-25) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.26 OBSTRUCTING DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with
the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-26) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.27 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-27) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.28 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any such vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply
to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons
riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-28) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.29 PRIVATE SERVICE DRIVES.
   No vehicle or animal shall be driven through any private service driveway or
private service area except for the purpose of obtaining service or
merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-29) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.30 ELUDING POLICE OFFICER.
   No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible
signal directing the operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop shall
willfully increase his or her speed or extinguish his or her lights or in any
other manner attempt to or actually elude such law enforcement officer. A
VISUAL OR AUDIBLE SIGNAL for the purpose of this section means a red light and
a siren from a law enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia
showing the same to be an official police, sheriff, or highway patrol car.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-30) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.31 DESIGNATION OF TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Council authority.
      (1)   The City Council may prescribe routes through the city for the use
of trucks in general, trucks of particular kinds and/or other vehicles which
are not ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the city.
      (2)   Appropriate and adequate signs shall be placed along such routes so
that drivers of such vehicles may follow the routes.
   (B)   Compliance required.
      (1)   When such signs are so erected and in place, the driver of a truck
or other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed, as provided above,
while passing through the city, shall keep on such route and shall not deviate
therefrom except in case of emergency.
      (2)   Drivers of such vehicles shall follow such routes so far as
practicable also when driving within the city and not merely through the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-31) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.32 LOADS ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   Prevent load from dropping. No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any
highway unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its
load from dropping, shifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom,
except that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water
or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining
the roadway.
   (B)   Fastening load. No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle
with any load unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so
as to prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any
manner a hazard to other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand,
cinders, or other loose material susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason
of wind shall have the load covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or
escaping of the load from the vehicle.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section not shall apply to trucks loaded with
livestock, poultry or agricultural products only, except baled agricultural
products; provided, that any such truck shall be so constructed or loaded as to
prevent such livestock or poultry from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-32) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.33 VEHICLE APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Right-of-way. When two vehicles enter or approach an uncontrolled
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver
of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the
right as otherwise stated in this title; however, the driver of a vehicle on a
street which is not a state or federal highway approaching an intersection with
a state or federal highway shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle
which has entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Modification of rule. The right-of-way rule declared in division (A)
of this section is modified at through highways as otherwise stated in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-33) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.34 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard. After so yielding and having given signal when and as
required by this title, the driver may make the left turn and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite direction
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-34) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.35 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS; THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Approaching yield sign. The driver of a vehicle approaching a “yield
right-of-way” sign shall slow to a reasonable speed for existing conditions of
traffic and visibility, yielding the right-of-way to all vehicles on the
intersecting street or highway which have entered the intersection or which are
so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Entering through highway. Except when directed to proceed by a police
officer or a traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle shall stop as
required by this title at the entrance to a through highway and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from the
through highway, or which are approaching so closely on the through highway as
to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   Facing traffic signs; right-of-way.
      (1)   If two or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs
or signals at an intersection and are approaching as to enter the intersection
at the same time, the following rules shall apply.
         (a)   If each vehicle is required to stop, the vehicle coming from the
right shall have the right-of-way.
         (b)   If each vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the
right shall have the right-of-way.
         (c)   If each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming
from the right shall have the right-of-way.
         (d)   If one vehicle is required to slow and the other to take
caution, the one required to take caution shall have the right-of-way.
      (2)   In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the intersection
shall have the right-of- way over one which has not entered the intersection.
   (D)   Through streets.
      (1)   The City Council may designate any street or part of a street a
through street.
      (2)   Whenever the City Council designates and describes a through
street, a stop sign, or yield sign if deemed more appropriate, shall be placed
and maintained on every street intersecting a through street, or intersecting
that portion thereof, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled at all
times by traffic control signals.
      (3)   At the intersection of two such through streets or at the
intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated,
stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets as may
be determined by the City Clerk if deemed desirable.
   (E)   Intersections where stop or yield required. The City Council is hereby
authorized to determine and designate intersections upon other than through
streets where particular hazards exist and to determine whether:
      (1)   Vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place a stop is required; or
      (2)   Vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a different
street as provided in this title, in which event it shall cause to be erected a
yield sign at every place where yield is required.
   (F)   Stop or yield sign construction and placement. Every stop or yield
sign erected pursuant to this chapter shall bear the word “Stop” or “Yield” in
letters not less than eight inches in height. Every stop or yield sign shall at
night be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, by a
fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign. Every stop or yield sign shall be located as
close as practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or if there is no crosswalk, then the sign shall be located at
the nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
   (G)   Entering intersections.
      (1)   Stop intersections. Except when directed by a police officer or
traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection, indicated by a stop sign, shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection. In the event there is no
crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a clearly marked stop line before entering
the intersection. If there is no marked stop line, then the driver shall stop
at the point nearest the intersecting road where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on an intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. A driver after having stopped shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or road, or
which is approaching so close as to constitute immediate hazard; but the driver
having so yielded may then proceed and the driver of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so
proceeding.
      (2)   Yield intersections. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield
sign shall, in observance to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the
existing condition or shall stop, if necessary, and shall yield the right-of-
way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he or she is
driving and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another road
so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded
may then proceed, and drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding. A driver who enters a
yield intersection without stopping and has or causes a collision with a
pedestrian at a crosswalk, or a vehicle in the intersection, shall prima facie
be considered not to have yielded as required herein. The provisions of this
division (G) shall not release the drivers of other vehicles approaching the
intersection at such a distance as not to constitute immediate hazard from the
duty to drive with due care to avoid a collision. The driver of a vehicle
approaching a yield sign if required for safety to stop shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection before entering the
intersection; if there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, or if there is no stop line, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-35) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.36 VEHICLES ENTERING HIGHWAY OR TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Entering from private road or driveway. The driver of a vehicle about
to enter, leave or cross a highway from or into a private road or driveway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the highway.
   (B)   Entering traffic from parking. Any vehicle attempting to re-enter
traffic while parked at the curb shall yield the right-of-way to oncoming
traffic in the street approaching from the rear. The parked vehicle shall
proceed into the line of traffic only after the driver has given the
appropriate signal which indicates his or her intention of turning from the
curb and into the line of traffic. The vehicle shall in no event enter the line
of traffic until the driver has ascertained that no hazard exists.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-36) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.37 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-37) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.38 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-38) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.39 RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Obedience to signal.
      (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         (c)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of
the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such
railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard; or
         (d)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
      (2)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (B)   Certain vehicles to stop.
      (1)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of
any school bus carrying any school child, or of any vehicle carrying explosive
substances or flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing
at grade any track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within 50
feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad, and
while so stopped, shall listen and look in both directions along such track for
any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train,
except as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. After stopping as required herein and upon proceeding when it is safe
to do so, the driver of any such vehicle shall cross only in such gear of the
vehicle that there will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing
such crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears while crossing the track or
tracks.
      (2)   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or
traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-39) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.40 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any
street or highway while using a handheld electronic communication device to
manually compose, send or read an electronic text message while the motor
vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (A) of this section
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $185.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) of this section shall not apply if the
person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication device for
the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following regarding an
imminent emergency situation:
      (1)   An emergency response operator;
      (2)   A hospital, physician’s office or health clinic;
      (3)   A provider of ambulance services;
      (4)   A provider of firefighting services; or
      (5)   A law enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-40) (Ord. 851, passed 11-1-2016)
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 71.55 TURNING MARKERS OR INDICATORS.
   (A)   Council authority. The City Council is authorized to place markers,
buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to
be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections. The course to be
traveled, as so indicated, may conform to or be other than as prescribed by
law.
   (B)   Compliance required. When authorized markers, buttons or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such indications.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.56 DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED TURNS.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to determine those street
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left or U-
turns, and shall have proper signs placed at such intersections. The making of
the turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at
other hours. Where turns are restricted during certain hours pursuant to this
section, the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be
removed when turns are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2)
§ 71.57 OBEDIENCE TO NO TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or U-
turn is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall not disobey the directions of
any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.58 U-TURNS.
   (A)   Prohibited u-turn areas. The driver of a vehicle shall not turn the
vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in the city
at the following locations:
      (1)   At intersections controlled by traffic control devices or signals
unless such turns are specifically authorized;
      (2)   Where a police officer is directing traffic, except at the latter’s
direction; or
      (3)   At any other location where an official “No U-Turn” has been placed
and is maintained.
   (B)   Manner of making u-turns. A U-turn may be made only when it can be
made in safety and without interfering with other traffic. No person shall make
a U-turn except in the following manner:
      (1)   By approaching the intersection as closely as practical to the
right curb or edge of the roadway, the driver giving and continuing to give a
signal for a left turn until the turn is completed, proceeding to make the turn
across the intersection;
      (2)   In one continuous movement without stopping or backing the vehicle;
      (3)   By yielding the right-of-way at all times to all vehicles until
such turn in completed; and
      (4)   Without constituting a hazard to or interfering with any other
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.59 POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and the execution of a
right turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge
of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
the approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the street nearest the center thereof by passing to the right of the centerline
where it enters the intersection. After entering the intersection, the left
turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
   (C)   Left turns, on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as
nearby as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon roadway being entered.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.60 TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS.
   (A)   Vehicle position. No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection
unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §
71.59 of this chapter, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway, unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
   (B)   Appropriate signal. No person shall so turn any vehicle without giving
an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (1)   Signal of intention. A signal of intention to turn right or left,
slow or stop, when required, shall be given continuously during not less than
the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning or stopping.
      (2)   Stop or decrease speed. No person shall stop or suddenly decrease
the speed of a vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner
provided herein to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there
is opportunity to give the signal.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.61 MEANS OF GIVING TURN SIGNALS.
   (A)   Manner of signaling. Any stop or turn signal when required herein
shall be given either by means of hand or arm, or by a signal lamp or lamps, or
mechanical device of a type approved by the Oklahoma Department of Public
Safety, except as provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Vehicle signaling devices. A vehicle shall be equipped with, and the
required signal given by, signal lamps or devices when:
      (1)   The body or cab of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle projects 24
inches or more to the left of the center of the steering wheel;
      (2)   Under any condition where a hand and arm signal would not be
visible both to the front and rear of the vehicle; or
      (3)   The rear limit of the body of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle
projects 14 feet or more beyond the center top of the steering post.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7)
§ 71.62 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn - hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn - hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease speed - hand and arm extended downward with palm to
the rear.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-8)
§ 71.63 TURNS INTO OR FROM ALLEYS.
   (A)   Turning left prohibited. No vehicles shall turn left when proceeding
into or proceeding out of an alley except when necessary to enter a one-way
street, and no vehicle shall cross any street or highway when proceeding into
or proceeding out of any alley except as provided in division (B) of this
section.
   (B)   Left turn allowed. Left turns may be made when proceeding out of an
alley if a traffic survey conducted by the traffic engineer shows that such
turn may be made safely and official signs are erected authorizing such turns.
   (C)   Exception. The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply to
bus terminals used by licensed and authorized bus lines.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
72.01   Authority to install devices
   
72.02   Uniform requirements for devices
   
72.03   Obedience to official traffic control devices
   
72.04   Device required for enforcement
   
72.05   Traffic control signal legend
   
72.06   Pedestrian control signals
   
72.07   Flashing signals
   
72.08   Pedestrian activated school crossing signals
   
72.09   Unauthorized devices prohibited
   
72.10   Defacement of devices
   
72.11   Play streets
   
72.12   Designation of crosswalks and safety zones
   
72.13   Traffic lanes
§ 72.01 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL DEVICES.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, shall have placed and maintained
traffic control signs, signals, and devices when and as required under the
traffic ordinances of the city to make effective the provisions of such
ordinances, and may have placed and maintained such additional traffic control
signs, signals, and devices as it may deem necessary to regulate traffic under
the traffic ordinances of the city or under state law or to guide or warn
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1)
§ 72.02 UNIFORM REQUIREMENTS FOR DEVICES.
   (A)   Conformance with Manual. All traffic control signs, signals, and
devices shall conform to The Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices approved
by the State Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Uniformity. All signs, signals and devices required hereunder for a
particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and
relative location throughout the city. All traffic control devices erected and
not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this chapter shall be
official traffic control devices.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2)
§ 72.03 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 DEVICE REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   No provision of this chapter for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. If a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4)
§ 72.05 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   The display of signal lights, arrows and words shall be deemed to have the
following meanings and requires the appropriate response on the part of
vehicular traffic and pedestrians.
   (A)   Green alone, go.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited, may
proceed straight through or turn right or left unless an official sign at such
place prohibits such turn, but any vehicle and any pedestrian lawfully within
the intersection or adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal displays green
shall have the right-of-way over such vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Pedestrian traffic facing a green signal may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless a “walk” signal
indicator is operating.
   (B)   Steady yellow or amber alone, caution.
      (1)   The showing of such signal color following green shall constitute a
warning that the “Red” or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately
thereafter.
      (2)   Vehicles facing the signal shall stop before entering the near side
crosswalk or at the limit line, if it is marked, unless the vehicle is so near
the limit line when the “caution” signal first flashes that a stop cannot be
made in safety, in which event vehicles may proceed cautiously through the
intersection and clear the same before the “red” signal flashes.
   (C)   Red alone, stop.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk and shall remain standing until green or “go” is shown alone. Except
where official signs are erected prohibiting such turns, vehicles in the right
traffic lane, after making a full stop as required, may enter the intersection
cautiously and make a right turn, but such vehicles shall yield the right-of-
way to any pedestrians or other traffic in the intersection, and the turn shall
be made so as not to interfere in any way with traffic proceeding on a green
signal indication on the cross street.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal shall not enter or cross the roadway
when such movement interferes with traffic proceeding on a green signal
indication on the cross street, or when the movement cannot be made in safety.
No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the green or
“go” is shown alone unless authorized to do so, by a pedestrian “walk” signal.
   (D)   Steady red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal when in the proper traffic
lane may cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated
by the arrow, but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection. If the movement
indicated by the green arrow is a left turn, the left turn shall be made only
on the red with green arrow signal.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “go” is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian “walk”
signal.
   (E)   Green arrows alone. Whenever vehicular traffic movements are
controlled by green arrows alone and not displayed with any other signal
indication, vehicles facing such signals may make the movements indicated by
the green arrows and the movements shall be made only when the green arrows are
displayed.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk”, “wait” or
“don’t walk” shall regulate pedestrian movement as follows:
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait or don’t walk. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his or her crossing on the “walk” signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety
zone while the “wait” signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Obedience required. Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow
signal is showing, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red. When a red light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject
to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow. When a yellow light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection,
or pass such signal only with caution.
   (B)   Exception, railroads. This section shall not apply at railroad grade
crossings.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 PEDESTRIAN ACTIVATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS.
   Whenever a pedestrian activated school crossing signal is provided, it
requires obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Flashing yellow.
      (1)   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or pass
such signal only with caution.
      (2)   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
activate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the signal when
the red or “stop” signal is exhibited.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which the
signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
   (C)   Steady red.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, and shall remain standing until
flashing yellow is shown alone.
      (2)   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal,
and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (D)   Steady red and steady yellow combined.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone.
      (2)   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her crossing
shall proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety zone, and shall be given the
right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 UNAUTHORIZED DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Traffic control. No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in
view of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control
device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
official traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   Advertising. No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public
authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign, signal or device bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
   (C)   Private property, exception. This section shall not prohibit the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information which are of a type that cannot be mistaken for
official signs.
   (D)   Removal of prohibited signs. Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or
device may be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 DEFACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in
fact alter, destroy, deface, molest, interfere, tamper, injure, knock down,
remove or have in his or her possession any traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or an inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
part thereof.
   (B)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not apply to any of the following
persons when acting within the scope and duty of their employment:
      (1)   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any governmental agency; or
      (2)   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any contractor, public utility or railroad company.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   Authority to establish. The City Council, by motion or resolution,
shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play street and to
have placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping
to protect the same.
   (B)   Restrictions on use. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle
upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having
business or whose residences are within such closed area; and then any such
driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may:
   (A)   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in its opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as it may deem necessary; and
   (B)   Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places
as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may be authorized to have
traffic lanes marked upon the roadway of any street where a regular alignment
of traffic is necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Regulations
   
73.01   Illegal parking declared public nuisance
   
73.02   Application of standing or parking regulations
   
73.03   Parking time limits established; signs
   
73.04   Handicapped parking, enforcement; disability insignia required
   
73.05   Parking more than 24 hours
   
73.06   Brakes set; motor left running
   
73.07   Angle parking
   
73.08   Parking in spaces marked off
   
73.09   Permits for loading or unloading at angle to curb
   
73.10   Hazardous or congested places
   
73.11   Parking prohibited in specified places
   
73.12   Blocking intersection or crosswalk
   
73.13   One-way streets
   
73.14   Parking adjacent to schools
   
73.15   Parking prohibited at intersections
   
73.16   Parking in alleys, blocking driveways
   
73.17   Entry on private property
   
73.18   Truck parking
   
73.19   Double parking
   
73.20   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
73.21   Method of parking close to curb
   
73.22   Negligent parking
   
73.23   Right-of-way to parallel parking space
Loading Regulations
   
73.35   Definitions
   
73.36   Curb loading zones, designation
   
73.37   Loading zones used only for designated purpose
   
73.38   Passenger curb loading zone
   
73.39   Commercial curb loading zone
   
73.40   Buses and taxicabs
 
   
73.99   Penalty
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 73.01 ILLEGAL PARKING DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any vehicle in violation of any regulation contained in this chapter
governing, limiting or prohibiting the parking or standing of a vehicle on any
street or public thoroughfare is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance, and each separate traffic citation issued as authorized herein for
such violation shall constitute a separate notice thereof to the owner or
operator of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 APPLICATION OF STANDING OR PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable when it is necessary
for a vehicle to stop to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2)
§ 73.03 PARKING TIME LIMITS ESTABLISHED; SIGNS.
   (A)   Council authority; signs required.
      (1)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may establish parking
time limits or prohibit parking on designated streets or parts of streets and
have appropriate signs placed on the streets.
      (2)   When the signs are in place, it is unlawful for any person to park
a vehicle in violation of the sign.
      (3)   No such time limits shall be effective unless a sign is erected and
in place at the time of the alleged violation.
   (B)   Specific no parking areas.
      (1)   There will be no parking between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30
p.m. on Ninth Street, Tenth Street, North Broadway Street and North Oak Street
where the streets are adjacent to block 64 of the original incorporated town
(city) limits (on which is situated the high school building).
      (2)   There is no parking on either side of North Oak Street or on either
side of Tenth Street or on either side of North Broadway Street where the
streets intersect each other in a rectangular manner around Block 64 of the
original incorporated town (city) limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 HANDICAPPED PARKING, ENFORCEMENT; DISABILITY INSIGNIA REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such
person has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions of 47 O.S. §
15-112, and such insignia is displayed as provided in said section or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 PARKING MORE THAN 24 HOURS.
   No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer
than 24 hours. This section shall not affect parking limits established for
shorter periods.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-5) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 BRAKES SET; MOTOR LEFT RUNNING.
   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-6) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Signs or markings. The City Council, by motion or resolution, shall
determine upon what streets and parts of streets angle parking shall be
permitted, and shall have such streets marked or signed.
   (B)   Obedience to signs or markings. On those streets which have been so
signed or marked for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle
other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such
signs or markings.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-7) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 PARKING IN SPACES MARKED OFF.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-8) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 PERMITS FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE TO CURB.
   (A)   Permit issuance. The City Clerk is authorized to issue special permits
to permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such
permit. Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein. The City Clerk may revoke
such permits at any time.
   (B)   Violation prohibited. It is unlawful for any permittee or other person
to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-9) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   Council authority. The City Council is hereby authorized to determine
and regulate by proper signs the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles when
such stopping, standing or parking would create an especially hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   Compliance required. When official signs are erected at hazardous or
congested places, as authorized in division (A) of this section, no person
shall violate such signs.
   (C)   Middle of street. There is no parking in the middle of a street in any
residential area of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-10) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Places designated. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle,
except in emergencies or when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, sidewalk area or between the sidewalk and the
street;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, except in a parking space
officially marked;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length has been indicated by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and
on the side of street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance when properly signposted;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; and
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   Compliance required. No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under
his or her control into any prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a
curb.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-11) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.12 BLOCKING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-12) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.13 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Parking on one-way roadway.
      (1)   Restrictions. If a highway includes two or more separate roadways
and traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person
shall stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of the one-way roadway
unless signs are erected to permit such standing or parking.
      (2)   Exceptions. The City Council may determine when standing or parking
may be permitted upon the left hand side of any such one-way roadway and shall
erect signs giving notice thereof.
   (B)   Parking in obedience to signs. The City Council may have signs erected
upon the left hand side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or
parking of vehicles. When the signs are in place, no person shall stand or park
a vehicle in violation of any such signs.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-13) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.14 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   Council authority to control. The City Council may have signs erected
indicating no parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any
school property when such parking would, in its opinion, interfere with traffic
or create a hazardous situation.
   (B)   Compliance required. No person shall park a vehicle in violation of
any such signs.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-14) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.15 PARKING PROHIBITED AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The parking of vehicles at the curb where streets intersect shall be
prohibited 15 feet in advance of the crosswalk on the near side of such
intersection.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-15) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 PARKING IN ALLEYS, BLOCKING DRIVEWAYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position as to block a
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-16) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Consent required. No person shall make an entry with any vehicle upon
real property owned or legally occupied by another without the owner’s or
occupant’s consent except where such private property is provided as public
parking and the general use of the property is not restricted by signs or
proper markings.
   (B)   Proof of permission. Where entry is made upon real property owned or
legally occupied by another without the owner’s or occupant’s consent, except
on unrestricted public parking, and is complained of by the owner or legal
occupant of the premises, the burden is put upon the person making the entry to
show that permission for such entry was given.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-17)
§ 73.18 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   Restrictions. It is unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or
corporation to park any of the following vehicles which exceed a weight limit
of one ton on any street or alley in a residential area of the city for more
than three consecutive hours:
      (1)   Truck;
      (2)   Bus;
      (3)   Tractor;
      (4)   Trailer; or
      (5)   Any other commercial vehicle.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Any passenger car;
      (2)   Any vehicle on a state highway or county section line road within
the city limits; or
      (3)   Any vehicle parked on a street or right-of-way within the city
which is parked for the purpose of repair, maintenance or resurfacing of the
street or right-of-way or for repair, maintenance or installation of public
utilities or for any other governmental purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-18) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   Double parking prohibited, conditions. No driver shall double park or
double stop a vehicle under the following conditions:
      (1)   Within 50 feet of an intersection except alley intersections, or
within ten feet of an alley intersection;
      (2)   Opposite a double parked or double stopped vehicle across the
street;
      (3)   When such double parking or double stopping would or does block or
interfere materially with the normal movement of traffic;
      (4)   When parking space adjacent to the curb is available;
      (5)   When directed by a police officer to move on; or
      (6)   In any position other than parallel to the curb and within two feet
of the adjacent vehicle parked next to the curb.
   (B)   Double parking authorized. A driver may double park or double stop a
vehicle only as authorized in this section. There must be a licensed driver in
any vehicle while it is double parked or double stopped.
   (C)   Loading or unloading passengers.
      (1)   A driver may double stop for the purpose of, but only while
actually engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers,
subject, however, to all the general conditions hereinabove set out.
      (2)   A driver may double park for the purpose of, but only while
actually engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of merchandise;
subject, however, to all the general conditions hereinabove set out. No such
vehicle shall be double parked longer than ten minutes.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-19) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.20 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
   (C)   Washing, cleaning or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-20) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21 METHOD OF PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right hand curb.
   (B)   Any vehicle stopped or parked upon the left hand side of a one-way
street where there are adjacent curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left
hand wheels parallel to and within 18 inches of the left hand curb.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-21)
§ 73.22 NEGLIGENT PARKING.
   No person shall park, cause to be parked, stop or leave unattended any
vehicle as follows:
   (A)   In a careless or negligent manner;
   (B)   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, persons or property; or
   (C)   In such manner as to endanger or interfere with the lawful traffic or
use of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-22) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PARALLEL PARKING SPACE.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle intending to occupy a parallel parking
space where a backing movement is necessary and which is being vacated by
another vehicle shall stop his or her vehicle to the rear of the parking space
until the vacating vehicle has cleared and entered normal traffic.
      (2)   He or she then shall be deemed to have the right-of-way to such
parking space over any other vehicle attempting to park therein.
   (B)   The first of two or more vehicles to reach the rear boundary of an
unoccupied parallel parking space where a backing movement is necessary to
occupy shall be deemed to have the right-of-way to such parking space.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-23)
LOADING REGULATIONS
§ 73.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A truck designated for delivery purposes with the name of the owner
or his or her business painted on both sides of the vehicle, regularly used
during normal business hours for the delivery and handling of merchandise or
freight and which bears a regular state commercial license tag; and
      (2)   A passenger vehicle used regularly and actually engaged during
normal business hours in the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight,
and which bears a special numbered license plate issued by the city at the rear
of the vehicle attached to the state license plate together with an identically
numbered decal.
   FREIGHT LOADING ZONES. All curb loading zones authorized and regularly used
exclusively for the loading and unloading of merchandise for storage, trade,
shipment or resale.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONES. All loading zones authorized and used regularly and
exclusively for the loading and unloading of passengers except bus stops,
taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1)
§ 73.36 CURB LOADING ZONES, DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Council authority. The City Council may determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall have placed and maintained
appropriate signs indicating the zones and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable.
   (B)   Compliance required. No person shall stand or park a vehicle in
violation of signs erected in accordance with this section.
   (C)   Payment for sign placed by city. If any loading zone is established on
request of any person, the signs shall not be placed until the applicant pays
to the city an amount of money estimated by the City Council to be adequate to
reimburse the city for all costs of establishing and signing the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.37 LOADING ZONES USED ONLY FOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE.
   No curb loading zone authorized and established as a passenger loading zone
shall be used as a freight loading zone, and no freight loading zone shall be
used as a passenger loading zone, except as may be specifically provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.38 PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a passenger curb loading
zone for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious loading
or unloading of passengers, during the hours when the regulations applicable to
such curb loading zones are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed
three minutes.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-4) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.39 COMMERCIAL CURB LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   Requirements and restrictions.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a commercial curb
loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials during hours when the
provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
      (2)   In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials
exceed 30 minutes.
      (3)   Vehicles using any commercial loading zone shall be subject to the
licensing requirements and regulations provided by this chapter.
   (B)   Passenger vehicles. The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop
temporarily at a place marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any commercial vehicle which is waiting to
enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-5) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.40 BUSES AND TAXICABS.
   (A)   Designation of public carrier stops and stands.
      (1)   The City Council may establish loading zones for common carriers,
including, but not limited to, bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands
for other passenger common carrier motor vehicles, on such public streets in
such places and in such number as it shall determine to be of the greatest
benefit and convenience to the public.
      (2)   Every such loading zone shall be designated by appropriate signs.
   (B)   Use of stands restricted.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and the appropriate signs are in place.
      (2)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers
when such stopping does not interfere with any bus, or taxicab waiting to enter
or about to enter the zone.
   (C)   Parking of buses and taxicabs.
      (1)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
      (2)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street
at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their
baggage except at areas designated as provided herein, except in case of an
emergency.
      (3)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or
passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when
stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with
the right front wheel of such vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb
and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the
movement of other vehicular traffic.
      (4)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-6) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
73.04 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine as provided in §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4)
CHAPTER 74: VEHICLE CONDITION; EQUIPMENT
Section
   
74.01   Vehicles injurious to streets
   
74.02   Obstructive and dangerous vehicles
   
74.03   Equipment
   
74.04   Mufflers, cut outs
   
74.05   Size, weight and load
§ 74.01 VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS.
   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded, as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
Chief of Police and in accordance with the terms of such permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 EQUIPMENT.
   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the city
which is not equipped as required by law. It is unlawful to fail to use such
equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it in a manner prohibited by
law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law
upon a street of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 MUFFLERS, CUT OUTS.
   No motor vehicles with an internal combustion engine shall be operated
within the city unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable
and sufficient muffler. No muffler cut-out or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall
be used on any motor vehicle while operating within the city, except that
exhaust whistles may be used on authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD.
   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
length, height, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
75.01   Subject to traffic control signals
   
75.02   Right-of-way at crosswalks
   
75.03   Use right half of crosswalk
   
75.04   Crossing at right angles
   
75.05   Yield by pedestrians
   
75.06   Walking along roadways
   
75.07   Soliciting rides, business or donations
   
75.08   Drivers exercise due care
   
75.09   Crossing prohibited
   
75.10   Obedience of pedestrians to railroad signals
§ 75.01 SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as provided for in
this title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights
and be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-1)
§ 75.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Vehicles to yield.
      (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way slowing down or stopping,
if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when:
         (a)   The pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling; or
         (b)   The pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite edge
of the roadway as to be in danger.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (A) are not applicable under
conditions where pedestrians are required to yield pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Pedestrian restrictions. No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or
other place of safety or walk or run into the path of the vehicle which is so
close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
   (C)   Overtaking vehicle stopped at crosswalk. Whenever any vehicle is
stopped at a marked crosswalk, or any unmarked crosswalk, or at an intersection
to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, the driver of any other vehicle
approaching from the rear shall not overtake to pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.03 USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians, when crossing the street at a crosswalk, shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of the crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-3)
§ 75.04 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angle to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except
in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-4)
§ 75.05 YIELD BY PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The provisions of this section are not applicable where pedestrian
crossings are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.06 WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practical, walk only on the left side of the
roadway, or its shoulder, facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction, and shall yield to approaching vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.07 SOLICITING RIDES, BUSINESS OR DONATIONS.
   (A)   Soliciting prohibited. No person shall stand in a roadway for purpose
of soliciting a ride, donations, employment or business from the occupant of
any vehicle.
   (B)   Other prohibited acts. No person shall:
      (1)   Stand in any street, roadway or park and stop or attempt to stop
and engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting
contributions or the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about
to be parked on a street;
      (2)   Sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in any vehicle;
      (3)   Hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill or any political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir or gift; or
      (4)   In any other manner, while standing in the street or roadway,
attempt to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other similar
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.08 DRIVERS EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway, and
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.09 CROSSING PROHIBITED.
   Between adjacent intersections, at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall not cross any divided highway having a median in the center
thereof, except in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.10 OBEDIENCE OF PEDESTRIANS TO RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
76.01   Application of bicycle regulations
   
76.02   Application of traffic laws to bicyclists
   
76.03   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
76.04   Riding on bicycles
   
76.05   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
76.06   Speed of bicycle
   
76.07   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
76.08   Carrying articles
   
76.09   Parking
   
76.10   Riding on sidewalks
   
76.11   Lamps and equipment on bicycles
Golf Carts and ATVs
   
76.25   Golf carts and ATV vehicles regulated
BICYCLES
§ 76.01 APPLICATION OF BICYCLE REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated
upon any street or upon any public way, or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-1)
§ 76.02 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS TO BICYCLISTS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of this state and the traffic provisions of this title applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and
except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature are
inapplicable to such persons.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-2)
§ 76.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Compliance required. Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the
instructions of official traffic control signals, signs and other control
devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Turning signs. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating no
right or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall
disobey the directions of such sign, except where such person dismounts from
the bicycle to make any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey
the regulations applicable to the pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-3)
§ 76.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Use of regular seat. No person operating a bicycle shall ride other
than astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   Carrying passengers. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Riding on right side. Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right hand side of the roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle proceeding in
the same direction.
   (B)   Riding two abreast. Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (C)   Bicycle paths. If usable paths for bicycles are provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such paths and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.06 SPEED OF BICYCLE.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.07 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley or driveway shall, upon
approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across the alley or driveway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area. Upon entering the roadway, the bicycle operator shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadways.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.08 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handle bars.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against the building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.10 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Business district. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within a business district.
   (B)   Signs prohibiting bicycles. The City Council, by motion or resolution,
is authorized to have erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the
riding of bicycles thereon by any person; and when such signs are in place, no
person shall disobey the same.
   (C)   Yield to pedestrians. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.11 LAMPS AND EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Lamps. Bicycles in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   (B)   Bell, signaling device. No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of at least 100 feet.
   (C)   Siren. A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use,
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Brake. Bicycles shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
GOLF CARTS AND ATVs
§ 76.25 GOLF CARTS AND ATV VEHICLES REGULATED.
   (A)   Golf carts, privately or publicly owned, and utility ATV vehicles
owned by citizens of the city, may be operated on the streets and alleys of
said city, under the following conditions:
      (1)   Operation shall be during daylight hours;
      (2)   Operation must be only upon city authorized streets;
      (3)   Operation must not occur on any state or federal highway, except to
run at a 90 degree angle for crossing purposes, where posted speed limit is
less than 36 mph;
      (4)   Operator of vehicle must be a licensed driver, at least 16 years
old;
      (5)   Operator must provide proof of liability insurance;
      (6)   All state, county and local laws and regulations shall govern the
operation of golf carts and utility ATV vehicles within the city limits;
      (7)   It shall remain illegal to operate sport utility ATV and non-
utility ATV vehicles on streets or alleys of the city;
      (8)   The number of passengers are only permitted as suggested by
manufacturers. No seating modifications shall be permitted including lift kits
or passenger seating modifications; and
      (9)   Canvass covers must allow good visibility in all directions. Gas
operated units shall have manufacturer’s muffler. Approved vehicles must have
reflectors on the back and golf carts maintain a flag on the back at least
eight feet high.
   (B)   All vehicles operating in designated ATV areas must have a city permit
and the owner must sign a waiver of liability before permit will be issued.
Permit fees are as follows:
 
Permits
Per day                 $10
Annual
   County residents  $30
   Non-county residen$60
 
(Prior Code, § 6-12-1) (Ord. 731, passed 10-21-2008, eff. 11-1-2008; Ord. 850,
passed 11-1-2016; Ord. 6-12-1, passed 8-8-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH REGULATIONS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   RECREATION
      
93.   FOOD SERVICE SANITATION
      
94.   HYGIENE REGULATIONS FOR SECURE FACILITIES
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
96.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
97.   ACCESS AND USE OF TOBACCO
      
98.   ANIMALS
      
99.   FAIR HOUSING
      
100.   CITY CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH REGULATIONS
Section
   
90.01   Enforcement by County Health Department
   
90.02   Obstructing Health Officer
   
90.03   Compliance with health regulations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Where the term “health officer” is used in this title, or anywhere in
this code, it shall be construed to mean the director of the County Health
Department or his or her duly designated representative.
   (B)   It is the intent and purpose of the Mayor and City Council to delegate
the enforcement of the health ordinances of the city as set out in this
section, and any such decisions rendered under this section shall be subject to
review by the governing board upon an appeal from an offender.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 90.02 OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with any
health officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 COMPLIANCE WITH HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully violate or refuse or fail to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the
health officer, or any officer charged with enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any law or code
adopted by reference in this code is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. In addition thereto, such person may be
enjoined from continuing such violations.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances; Generally
   
91.01   Nuisances defined
   
91.02   Responsibility; nuisance unlawful
   
91.03   Time does not legalize
   
91.04   Remedies
   
91.05   Power to define and summarily abate nuisances
   
91.06   Certain public nuisances defined
   
91.07   Health nuisances; abatement
   
91.08   Toilet facilities required; nuisance
   
91.09   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
91.10   Abatement by suit in district court
   
91.11   Procedures cumulative
   
91.12   Dilapidated structures
   
91.13   Boarding and securing unsecured buildings
   
91.14   Orders to vacate premises
Trash and Weeds
   
91.25   Definitions
   
91.26   Enforcement; appeal; assessing costs
   
91.27   Accumulation of trash or weeds
   
91.28   Reports of accumulations on property
   
91.29   Hearing and notice
   
91.30   Work done by city or contract
   
91.31   Determination, assessment of cost for structural removal
   
91.32   Lien on property; civil remedy
   
91.33   Service of notices
   
91.34   Abandoned iceboxes or refrigerators
   
91.35   Rubbish deposits
   
91.36   Removal of dead animals
   
91.37   Burning trash and debris within city limits
   
91.38   Abatement of unsightly condition of premises
Litter
   
91.50   Definitions
   
91.51   Litter deposits
   
91.52   Use of receptacles
   
91.53   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
91.54   Vehicle loads causing litter
   
91.55   Distributing handbills
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NUISANCES; GENERALLY
§ 91.01 NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   Nuisance. A NUISANCE is unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to
perform a duty, or is any thing or condition which either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   (B)   Public. A PUBLIC NUISANCE is one which affects at the same time an
entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal.
   (C)   Private. Every nuisance not included in division (B) of this section
is a PRIVATE NUISANCE.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
§ 91.02 RESPONSIBILITY; NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   Persons responsible. Every successive owner of property who neglects
to abate a continuing nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by
a former owner, is liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first
created it.
   (B)   Nuisance unlawful. It is unlawful for any person, including, but not
limited to, any owner, lessee or other person to create or maintain a nuisance
within the city or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his or her
control within the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3)
§ 91.04 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Public nuisances. The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      (1)   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      (2)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      (3)   Civil action; or
      (4)   Abatement:
         (a)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
         (b)   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance.
   (B)   Private nuisances. The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      (1)   Civil action;
      (2)   Abatement:
         (a)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
         (b)   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4)
§ 91.05 POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES.
   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the city has power to determine what is and
what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water supply,
outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the city
has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner
and an opportunity for him or her to be heard, if this can be done.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5)
§ 91.06 CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   Nuisances enumerated. In addition to other public nuisances declared
by other sections of this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be
public nuisances:
      (1)   Unwholesome food. The sale, or offering for sale, of unwholesome
food or drink; or the keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are
made;
      (2)   Liquor. The sale, offering for sale, or furnishing of intoxicating
liquor in violation of the state law or ordinances of the city; or keeping of a
place where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale, or furnished in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the city;
      (3)   Obscene materials. The exposure, display, sale or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or
the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      (4)   Gambling. The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by
cards, slot machines, punchboards or otherwise;
      (5)   House of prostitution. The keeping of a place where prostitution,
illicit sexual intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      (6)   Place where unlawful activities occur. The keeping of a place where
activities in violation of state law or ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      (7)   Illegal dances. The conduct or holding of public dances in
violation of the ordinances of the city; or the keeping of a place where such
dances are held;
      (8)   Exposure of person with contagious disease. The public exposure of
a person having a contagious disease;
      (9)   Loud noises. The continued making of loud or unusual noises which
annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which
makes such noises;
      (10)   Interference with radio or television reception. The operation or
use of any electrical apparatus or machine which materially or unduly
interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      (11)   Crowds obstructing traffic. Any use of a street or sidewalk or a
place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinance;
      (12)   Liquid or snow falling from building. Permitting water or other
liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or structure
upon any street or sidewalk;
      (13)   Stagnant water. All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers
of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (14)   Dangerous building. Every building or other structure that is now
or shall become unsafe and dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall
become hazardous from fire, by reason of age, decay or construction, location
or other cause, or shall be detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the
city or its inhabitants from any cause, is hereby declared to be a nuisance;
      (15)   Dangerous pit or hole. Any pit, hole or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (16)   Fire hazard. Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the
public safety;
      (17)   Activities endangering public health. Any occupation or activity
which endangers the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare;
      (18)   Inoperable vehicle or trailer storage in residence district. Any
motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any trailer without a
current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on the public
highways, when stored or kept in a residence district;
      (19)   Stables, obnoxious animal areas. Any stable or other place where
animals are kept that may become obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the
city, by reason of any noise or noises made by the animal therein, or by reason
of lack of sanitation;
      (20)   Offensive dog kennels. The keeping of any dog kennels within the
city for the breeding and raising of dogs that shall become offensive or
annoying to the public by reason of the barking and noise made by the animals
therein contained;
      (21)   Vaults or cesspools. Any vault, cesspool or sink used to receive
human excrement, slops, garbage, refuse or other filthy substance;
      (22)   Refuse, decaying vegetable matter. Any pond, slop, trash, refuse,
cobs, manure, decayed or decaying vegetable matter, left, kept or maintained in
such condition as to endanger the public health;
      (23)   Hog pens. The keeping of any hog pen within the limits of the
city;
      (24)   Leaking privies or water closets. Every privy or water closet
which shall be in an overflowing, leaking or filthy condition, or in a
condition dangerous, injurious or annoying to the comfort, health and welfare
of any resident of the city;
      (25)   Hides of animals. Any green or unsalted hides of any animal kept
in any exposed or open place within the limits of the city;
      (26)   Defective ditch, gutter. Any unclean, foul, leaking or broken or
defective ditch, drain, gutter, slop, garbage or manure barrel, box or other
receptacle in the city; and
      (27)   Number of cats restricted.
         (a)   Number. No more than six cats, more than six months of age, may
be kept on any lot, premises or in any structure, except in a kennel. Not more
than one litter of kittens born to different female cats may be kept unless in
a kennel.
         (b)   Kennel location. It is unlawful for any person to have, run,
maintain or operate any kennel or any place for sale, exchange, breeding or
training of pet animals within the city except in a nonresidential area.
         (c)   Transition rule. The number of cats shall be limited to six in
any one household. Six additional identified cats shall be grandfathered in on
the effective date of this enactment. Any number more than 12 shall be subject
to removal by the animal control officer after 90 days from the effective date.
   (B)   Provisions cumulative. The above enumeration of certain public
nuisances shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or
ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more
specific terms.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-6) (Ord. 620, passed 3-21-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice to abate.
      (1)   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the health
officer shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of any private
premises in the city to remove from such premises, at his or her own expense,
any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of
insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any
other condition adversely affecting the public health, within 24 hours, or
within such other time as may be reasonable, and a failure to do so shall
constitute an offense.
      (2)   Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the
owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the health
officer or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual
place of abode of the owner, occupant or agent, if known and within the state.
      (3)   If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the owner,
occupant or agent is unknown, or is without the state, the order may be served
by posting a copy thereof on the premises, or by publication in at least one
issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the city.
   (B)   Abatement by city; assessment of costs.
      (1)   If the order is not complied with, the health officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with, and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the City Clerk, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
added to the water bill or other city utility bill of the owner or occupant if
he or she is a user of water from the city water system or such other utility
service.
      (2)   The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which
it is added, and shall become due and payable, and be subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment, as the utility bill itself.
      (3)   If such owner or occupant is not a user of any city utility
service, such cost, after certification to the City Clerk, may be collected in
any manner in which any other debt due the city may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-7)
§ 91.08 TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED; NUISANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
      SANITARY PIT PRIVY. A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as
to conform with the specifications approved by the State Health Department.
      SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   (B)   Installation of sanitary facilities.
      (1)   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans
reside, are employed, or congregate within the city shall install, equip and
maintain adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement by
use of a sanitary water closet or a sanitary pit privy.
      (2)   The closets and toilets hereby required shall be of the sanitary
water closet type when located within 200 feet of a sanitary sewer and
accessible thereto, and of the sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a
greater distance from a sanitary sewer) or the water closet type emptying into
a septic tank system or the pit privy type.
      (3)   A septic tank system or a pit privy may be used in such cases only
if it meets the standards of and is approved by the State Health Department.
   (C)   Disposal of human excrement.
      (1)   All human excrement disposed of within the city shall be disposed
of by depositing it in closets and privies of the type provided for in this
section.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any owner of property within the city to permit
the disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person
to dispose of human excrement within the city in any other manner.
   (D)   Maintenance of privies.
      (1)   All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and the
covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all times when the
privies are not being used.
      (2)   No wash water, kitchen slop, or anything other than human excrement
and toilet paper shall be emptied into a privy.
      (3)   No excrement from any person suffering from typhoid fever,
dysentery, or other serious bowel disease shall be deposited in any sanitary
pit privy or sanitary water closet until it is disinfected in such a manner as
may be prescribed by the health officer.
   (E)   Noncompliance; nuisance declared.
      (1)   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner
different from that required by this section, and all privies and closets so
constructed, situated, or maintained as to endanger the public health, are
hereby declared to be public nuisances, and may be dealt with and abated as
such.
      (2)   Any person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense,
and each day upon which any such nuisance continues is a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-8) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Immediate action by city. Some nuisances are of such nature as to
constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of one or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized
that circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to require the Mayor or
other appropriate officer or agency of the city government to take immediate
and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend
the danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   (B)   Statement submitted to Council. The Chief of the Fire Department, the
Chief of Police, the City Attorney, the city inspector or any other officer
subordinate to Code Enforcement may submit through, or with the consent of, the
Mayor to the City Council, a statement as to the existence of a nuisance as
defined by the ordinances of the city or law, and a request or recommendation
that it be abated. The Mayor himself or herself, the health officer, any
Council member, or any resident or residents of the city may submit such a
statement and request a recommendation to the City Council.
   (C)   Council determination; notice of nuisance.
      (1)   The City Council shall determine whether or not the alleged
nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the
subject, the Council shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books,
papers and other effects.
      (2)   Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or have it abated, the
Council shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner
of any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed responsible
for or to be causing the nuisance, and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if
such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the
owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by
service by a police officer if their names and addresses are known; but, if the
names or addresses are not known, and the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be
published in a paper of general circulation within the city.
   (D)   Order abatement by owner; subsequent abatement by city; costs
assessed.
      (1)   If the Council finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it shall
direct the owner or other persons responsible for, or causing, the nuisance to
abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay.
      (2)   If such peace, health, safety, morals or welfare would be unduly
jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, the Council shall direct Code Enforcement to abate the nuisance or to
have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 O.S. §
16.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for, or causing, the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known.
      (4)   Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the city
collectible as other debts of the city may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-9)
§ 91.10 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the
city may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-10)
§ 91.11 PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this subchapter
and by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative onto any other
penalties or procedures authorized.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-11)
§ 91.12 DILAPIDATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DILAPIDATED BUILDING. Means:
         (a)   A structure which through neglect or injury lacks necessary
repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent
that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of the general
public;
         (b)   A structure which is determined by the municipal governing body
or administrative officer of the municipal governing body to be an unsecured
building, as defined by §
91.13 of this chapter, more than three times within any 12-month period;
         (c)   A structure which has been boarded and secured, as defined by §
91.13 of this chapter, for more than 18 consecutive months; or
         (d)   A structure declared by the municipal governing body to
constitute a public nuisance.
      OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   (B)   Notices. At least ten days’ notice that a building is to be torn down
or removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the City Council
holds a hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be
affected. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by certified mail to
the property owner at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the
office of the County Treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any
mortgage holder as shown by the records in the office of the County Clerk to
the last known address of the mortgagee. However, if neither the property owner
nor mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of
the notice on the property.
   (C)   Hearing. The City Council shall determine if the building is
dilapidated and has become detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the
general public, and the community, or if the property creates a fire hazard
which is dangerous to other property. The Council may, alternatively, give the
owner of the property a reasonable time to correct the defects noted by the
city before the property is found to be dilapidated.
   (D)   Abatement by city; notice of lien. Pursuant to a finding that the
condition of the property constitutes a detriment or a hazard and that the
property would be benefitted by the removal of such conditions, the Council may
direct that the dilapidated building be torn down and removed or boarded and
secured. The City Manager shall fix reasonable dates for the commencement and
completion of the work. The City Clerk shall immediately file a notice of
dilapidation and lien with the County Clerk describing the property, the
findings of the city at the hearing, and stating that the city claims a lien on
the property for the destruction and removal costs and that such costs are the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of filing of
the notice. The agents of the city are granted the right of entry on the
property for the performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function
of the city if the work is not performed by the property owner within dates
fixed by the city. Any action to challenge the order of the administrative
officer shall be filed within 30 business days from the date of the order.
   (E)   Notice and determination of costs. The owner of the property may
consent to the removal of the structure in writing for a flat fee of $500 paid
to the city as stated in §
91.31 of this chapter. If this fee is not paid directly to the City Clerk’s
office by the time the structure is removed, then a lien will be filed against
the property for the amount of the fee. If the owner does not give his or her
written consent to removal, the city shall determine the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that
may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the
buildings, including the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall
forward a statement of the actual cost attributable to the dismantling and
removal of the buildings and a demand for payment of such costs, by mail, to
the property owner. In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any
mortgage holder. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any
property owner or mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing
from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and
the name and address of the mailee. If the city dismantles or removes any
dilapidated buildings, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the
actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment required for the
dismantling and removal of the dilapidated buildings. If dismantling and
removal of the dilapidated buildings is done on a private contract basis, the
contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
   (F)   Payment of costs; failure to pay.
      (1)   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the City Clerk
shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual cost of
the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within six months from
the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such property, the
City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the
County Treasurer of the county in which the property is located. Once certified
to the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to the County Treasurer
except as otherwise provided for in this section. The costs shall be levied on
the property and collected by the County Treasurer as are other taxes
authorized by law. Until finally paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall
be the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of the
notice of dilapidation and lien is filed with the County Clerk.
      (2)   In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the
County Clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and
all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all
other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the
cost is fully paid.
      (3)   At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall collect a fee
of $5 for each parcel of property. The fee shall be deposited to the credit of
the General Fund of the county. If the County Treasurer and the city agree that
the County Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the city may pursue a
civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon, including
an action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to
foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from
the surface interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject
to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving
payment, the City Clerk shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such
payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
   (G)   Appeals.
      (1)   The property owner shall have the right of appeal to the City
Council from any order of the city inspector.
      (2)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with
the City Clerk within ten days after the administrative order is rendered.
   (H)   Summary abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its police
power to protect the health, safety or welfare of the general public.
   (I)   Nonliability of city. The officers, employees or agents of the city
shall not be liable for any damages or loss of property due to the removal of
dilapidated buildings performed pursuant to the provisions of this section or
as otherwise prescribed by law.
   (J)   Exemptions from provisions. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any property zoned and used for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-12) (Ord. 859, passed 3-25-2018)
§ 91.13 BOARDING AND SECURING UNSECURED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARDING AND SECURING or BOARDED AND SECURED. The closing, boarding,
barring or locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into
the structure.
      UNSECURED BUILDING. Any structure which is not occupied by an owner or by
any persons holding a lease with the owner, and into which there are one or
more unsecured openings such as broken windows, unlocked windows, broken doors,
unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes in the roof, broken basement or
cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar hatchways or other similar
unsecured openings which would facilitate an unauthorized entry into the
structure.
   (B)   If an unsecured building has been declared dilapidated, as provided in
§
91.12 of this chapter, and before the commencement of the tearing and removal
of a dilapidated building, the City Manager may authorize that such a building
be boarded and secured immediately. Boarding or securing a building that has
been declared dilapidated does not waive the city’s right to tear down the
building at a later date per the procedures in §
91.12 of this chapter.
   (C)   The city may cause any unsecured building to be boarded and secured in
accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   Notices. Before the administrative officer orders such action, at
least ten days’ notice that such unsecured building is to be boarded and
secured shall be given by mail to any property owners and mortgage holders as
provided in §
91.12 of this chapter. If the administrative officer anticipates summary
abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the provisions below, the notice
shall state:
         (a)   Any subsequent need for boarding and securing the building
within a six-month period after the initial boarding and securing of the
building pursuant to such notice may be summarily boarded and secured by the
administrative officer;
         (b)   The costs of such boarding and securing shall be assessed
against the owner; and
         (c)   A lien may be imposed on the property to secure such payment,
all without further prior notice to the property owner or mortgage holder.
      (2)   Consent of owner for city to board and secure. The owner of the
property may give written consent to the city authorizing the boarding and
securing of such unsecured building and to the payment of any costs incurred
thereby. By giving written consent, the owner waives any right the owner has to
a hearing by the administrative officer.
      (3)   Hearing; decision and action. If the property owner does not give
written consent to such actions, a hearing may be held by the City Council to
determine whether the boarding and securing of such unsecured building would
promote and benefit the public health, safety or welfare. Such hearing may be
held in conjunction with a hearing on the accumulation of trash or the growth
of weeds or grass on the premises of such unsecured building held pursuant to
the provisions of §
91.29 of this chapter. In making such determination, the administrative officer
shall apply the following standard: the administrative officer may order the
boarding and securing of the unsecured building when the boarding and securing
thereof would make such building less available for transient occupation,
decrease a fire hazard created by such building, or decrease the hazard that
such building would constitute an attractive nuisance to children. Upon making
the required determination, the administrative officer may order the boarding
and securing of the unsecured building.
      (4)   Notice of lien. After the administrative officer orders the
boarding and securing of such unsecured building, the City Clerk shall
immediately file a notice of unsecured building and lien with the County Clerk
describing the property, stating the findings of the city at the hearing at
which such building was determined to be unsecured, and stating that the city
claims a lien on the property for the costs of boarding and securing such
building and that such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date of filing the notice.
      (5)   Entry powers to board and secure. Pursuant to the order of the
administrative officer, the agents of the city are granted the right of entry
on the property for the performance of the boarding and securing of such
building and for the performance of all necessary duties as a governmental
function of the city.
      (6)   Costs. After an unsecured building has been boarded and secured,
the administrative officer shall determine the actual costs of such actions and
any other expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith, including
the cost of the notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall send by certified mail
a statement of the actual costs attributable to the boarding and securing of
the unsecured building and a demand for payment of such costs at the time of
mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage holder. If
the city boards and secures any unsecured building, the cost to the property
owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, materials and equipment
required for the performance of such actions. If such actions are done on a
private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best
bidder.
      (7)   Payment of costs; failure to pay.
         (a)   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the City
Clerk shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual
costs of the boarding and securing of the unsecured building is not made within
30 days from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such
property, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of
the costs to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is
located. Once certified to the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to
the County Treasurer except as otherwise provided for in this section. At the
time of collection, the County Treasurer shall collect a fee of $5 for each
parcel of property, and such fee shall be deposited to the General Fund of the
county. The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the County
Treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. Until fully paid, the costs and
the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date the notice of unsecured building and lien is filed with
the County Clerk.
         (b)   In addition, the costs and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the
County Clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and
all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all
other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the
costs and interest are fully paid.
         (c)   If the County Treasurer and the city agree that the County
Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the city may pursue a civil
remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon by an action in
personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien
against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface owner,
shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this
section. Upon receiving payment, the City Clerk shall forward to the County
Treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
      (8)   Appeals. The property owner or mortgage holder shall have a right
of appeal to the City Council from any order of the city inspector. Such appeal
shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within
ten days after the administrative order is rendered.
      (9)   Summary boarding and securing. If the city causes a structure
within the city limits to be boarded and secured, any subsequent need for
boarding and securing within a six-month period constitutes a public nuisance
and may be summarily boarded and secured without further prior notice to the
property owner or mortgage holder. At the time of each such summary boarding
and securing, the city shall notify the property owner and mortgage holder of
the boarding and securing and the costs thereof by certified mail.
   (D)   The City Council may determine that a building is unsecured and order
that such building be boarded and secured in the manner provided for in this
section even though such building has not been declared by the City Council to
be dilapidated.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-13) (Ord. 859, passed 3-25-2018)
§ 91.14 ORDERS TO VACATE PREMISES.
   (A)   Any structure shall be deemed unfit for human occupancy if it is found
to be in one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   So damaged, decayed, unsanitary, unsafe or vermin-infested that it
creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of the occupants or of the
public;
      (2)   So deficient in illumination, sanitation or ventilation facilities
that it jeopardizes the health or safety of the occupants or of the public;
      (3)   So located as to be dangerous to the health or safety of the
occupants or of the public;
      (4)   The structure being inhabited has not had working city water
service or a working water well for at least one week;
      (5)   The structure being inhabited has not had working electric service
for at least one week; or
      (6)   The structure has been declared dilapidated by the City Council
under the provisions of §
91.12 of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the city inspector determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of division (A) of this section, he or she shall
give notice of such violation to the person or persons residing in the unfit
structure.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing, shall notify the residents of the
remedial action which will cause the structure to become fit for occupancy, and
specify a reasonable time for performance.
      (3)   The notice may be mailed to the address of the structure by
certified mail or posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (C)   Upon reinspection at the end of the time specified for compliance, if
it is found that the violation or violations continue to exist, the Council may
declare the structure unfit for human occupancy and order the structure vacated
by the following procedure.
      (1)   The building shall be vacated within a reasonable time which shall
not exceed 60 days from the City Council meeting in which the structure is
declared unfit.
      (2)   Vacated buildings shall have all outer doors firmly locked or
boarded and all cellar or first-story windows shall be barred or boarded.
      (3)   If the building is not vacated within the time specified in the
order the city may seek an order in a court of competent jurisdiction to
require compliance with the order.
      (4)   Vacated buildings shall not be occupied again by any human until
the violations have been corrected and an occupancy permit has been issued by
the city inspector. Any person found to be occupying the building in
contradiction to the Council’s order shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor
punishable by a municipal fine of $100 per day.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-14) (Ord. 859, passed 3-25-2018)
TRASH AND WEEDS
§ 91.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste, or matter of any kind or form which is
uncared for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEEDS.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to: poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption or grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community, or a
hazard to traffic, or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of the weeds;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term WEED does not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1)
§ 91.26 ENFORCEMENT; APPEAL; ASSESSING COSTS.
   (A)   Enforcement official designated. Pursuant to 11 O.S. § 22-111(A)(7),
the city hereby designates the City Clerk to carry out the duties of the City
Council in 11 O.S. § 22-111(A).
   (B)   Appeal.
      (1)   The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the City Council
from any order of the City Clerk, acting as the administrative officer,
provided such notice of appeal is made in writing to the City Clerk within ten
days of issuance of the City Clerk’s administrative order.
      (2)   The appeal is de novo except that the burden of proof is upon the
appellant. BURDEN OF PROOF means the burden of going forward with the evidence
and further includes the burden of persuasion by a preponderance of the
evidence.
   (C)   Assessing costs for trash and weed removal.
      (1)   The city may not waive the actual cost of cleaning trash from
private property open to the public but rather must charge recipient of
services the actual cost for services rendered.
      (2)   Private property not open to the public may be subject to waiver
under equitable principles established by the City Clerk, for persons receiving
social security income.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) (Ord. 601, passed 5-5-1998)
§ 91.27 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH OR WEEDS.
   It is unlawful for any owner of any lot, tract or parcel of land situated
wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the city to allow trash or
weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises, and it shall be the duty
of such owner to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28 REPORTS OF ACCUMULATIONS ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   Reports by city officials. Any officer or employee of the city who
discovers an accumulation of trash or the growth of grass and weeds, or both
these conditions, upon any premises within the limits of the city, shall report
the condition to the City Clerk if, as a result of the accumulation or growth,
the premises appear to be:
      (1)   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and
the community;
      (2)   A hazard to traffic;
      (3)   A fire hazard to property; or
      (4)   Any two or more of these conditions.
   (B)   Citizen complaints; committee investigation. A committee composed of
the Chief or Assistant Chief of Police, Chief or Assistant Chief of the Fire
Department and the county sanitarian or other representative of the Department
of Public Health, shall, on citizen complaint or upon their own notice, inspect
subject property. If their inspection reveals a violation of one or more of the
above named conditions, and their decision must be unanimous, they shall report
their findings to the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4)
§ 91.29 HEARING AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Report placed upon Council agenda. Upon receiving the report provided
for in §
91.28 of this chapter, or upon receipt of equivalent information from any
reliable source, the Mayor shall place the matter upon the agenda of the City
Council for hearing and consideration at an appropriate date which will permit
the giving of the notices prescribed by state law. At the hearing, the Council
shall consider whether the premises, by reason of the conditions specified, are
detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the community,
or a hazard to traffic, or a fire hazard to property, or any two or more of
such conditions.
   (B)   Notice by mail, posting, newspaper. At least ten days prior to the
hearing, the City Clerk shall give written notice of the hearing by posting
upon the premises and by forwarding a copy thereof by certified mail with
return receipt requested to the owner of the property at the address shown by
the current year’s tax rolls in the office of the Treasurer of the county in
which the property is located. If the return receipt shows that the property
owner cannot be located, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation one time not less than ten days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   (C)   Hearing; Council action. At least ten days from the date of receipt of
the notice by the owner and upon the date specified in the notice, the City
Council shall hear the matter and shall receive information thereon, including
anything which may be presented by the owner of the premises, personally or by
agent or attorney. If the Council determines that any of the conditions
specified in §
91.28 of this chapter exist upon the premises, it may order the property to be
cleaned of trash, or other trash or weeds to be cut, removed or destroyed
unless within ten days from the date of receipt of the notice the owner either:
      (1)   Cuts, removes or destroys the trash or weeds in accordance with the
notice; or
      (2)   Gives written consent authorizing the city to abate the trash or
weeds, thereby waiving his or her right to a hearing.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-5)
§ 91.30 WORK DONE BY CITY OR CONTRACT.
   The work ordered to be performed under §
91.29 of this chapter may be done by the employees of the city under
supervision of the City Manager, or it may be let by contract to the lowest and
best bidder, after appropriate notice, in the manner for letting other
contracts by public bid.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-6)
§ 91.31 DETERMINATION, ASSESSMENT OF COST FOR STRUCTURAL REMOVAL.
   (A)   Determination of cost. In the absence of a voluntary agreement for a
flat fee of $500 per structure removed, the City Council, after analysis of the
cost of work performed pursuant to §
91.30 of this chapter, the actual cost has been estimated and predetermined at
not less than $500 and is hereby established as a minimum charge for removal of
a dilapidated housing structure. Upon the failure to pay the actual removal
cost in excess of $500, a lien shall be set against the subject property, as
provided in §
91.32 of this chapter. If the minimum actual cost is less than $500, the $500
administrative charge shall be the lienable claim.
   (B)   Statement to property owner. The City Council hereby directs the City
Clerk to forward a statement and demand payment of the actual cost, but not
less than $500, by certified mail, with return receipt requested, to the record
owner of the property at the address shown by the current tax rolls in the
office of the Hughes County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-7) (Ord. 747, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 91.32 LIEN ON PROPERTY; CIVIL REMEDY.
   (A)   If the cost of the work performed under this chapter, as established
in §
91.31(A) of this chapter, is not paid within 30 days from the date of mailing
the notice prescribed by §
91.31(B) of this chapter, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer of the county in which the
property upon which the work was done is located, in order that the amount be
levied upon the property and be collected by the County Treasurer in the manner
prescribed by the law of this state. The lien is coequal with the lien of ad
valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and
superior to all other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall
continue until the cost is fully paid.
   (B)   At any time prior to collection as provided in this section, the city
may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owed and interest
thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the City Clerk shall forward to the
County Treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-8)
§ 91.33 SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   The service of all notices prescribed by this chapter shall be evidenced by
the return of the officer making such service, certified in his or her official
capacity, and filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-9)
§ 91.34 ABANDONED ICEBOXES OR REFRIGERATORS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave in a place
accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox,
refrigerator or other container of a capacity of one and one- half cubic feet
or more which has an airtight door with a lock or other fastening device which
cannot be easily released for opening from the inside of the icebox,
refrigerator or container, without first removing the door, lock or fastener.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-10) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.35 RUBBISH DEPOSITS.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any rubbish, trash,
slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, trees, brush or any other refuse
or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley or in any ditch or watercourse, or
upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in the city shall,
within 24 hours after the death of such animal, remove its carcass, and failure
so to do shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.37 BURNING TRASH AND DEBRIS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Burning prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to burn trash,
garbage or debris in any area within the city limits, and such burning shall
constitute an offense subject to the penalties provided below.
   (B)   Exception 1; approval of burn permit application.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall maintain a free burn permit application
process in his or her office and establish burn permit guidelines for safe
periodic but infrequent burning also permitted by state and/or federal law.
      (2)   The Fire Department Chief may, in his or her discretion, issue a
burn permit when his or her established criteria are satisfied. If a permit is
denied for any reason, the applicant can appeal to the City Council for review
of the decision provided such appeal is filed with the City Clerk within five
days of denial and is to be specially set on the next City Council meeting
docket as a public administrative review.
   (C)   Exception 2; approval of device.
      (1)   The Fire Chief may, upon written application and after
investigation and determination that any device meets the requirements of the
city’s then approved codes and state DEQ and/or Department of Health, and that
the device operates without objectionable smoke, odor or fly ash, permit the
installation and the use of such device if it operates without substantial
injury to the citizens of the city. This exception includes an outdoor custom
built firepit personally approved by the Fire Chief. No permit shall be
required of any Underwriters Laboratory (UL) approved commercial pit item.
      (2)   The permit for a specific installation of a device in a given
location shall not constitute a blanket authority to install and operate
similar devices at other locations or under other conditions.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-13) (Ord. 836, passed 5-20-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.38 ABATEMENT OF UNSIGHTLY CONDITION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Definition. The term UNSIGHTLY includes the WEED and DEBRIS
definitions found in 11 O.S. § 22-112, and also includes household furniture
and furnishings, not designed for outdoor use, located in front and side
residence yards.
   (B)   Findings; notice; issuance of tickets.
      (1)   Upon the city inspector or his or her staff finding that there
appears to be an unsightly dwelling by reason of debris or the presence outside
of home furniture or furnishings, not designed for outdoor use, said inspector
shall issue a ten-day notice to cure by leaving a copy of same at the door of
the residence, and shall also transmit a copy to the Police Department.
      (2)   After ten days, including weekends and holidays, if the inspector’s
reinspection results in the same unsightly determination, then the Police
Department shall issue a ticket for unsightliness, in the same manner as other
tickets, except that no arrest is authorized. The complaint shall be signed by
the city inspector. The defendant is then subject to the municipal court
appearance docket as in other complaints.
   (C)   Determination of responsibility.
      (1)   Any occupant of the dwelling is the person deemed subject to the
ticket. A water service recipient shall be prima facie evidence of the identity
of the occupant and responsible party.
      (2)   If the property has no tenant or occupant, the notice and ticket
shall issue to the owner receiving tax statements from the County Treasurer’s
office.
   (D)   The presiding municipal judge for the city shall serve as the
administrative officer to carry out the duties of the governing body as
detailed in this section and in compliance with 11 O.S. § 22-112.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-14) (Ord. 612, passed 4-2-2002, eff. 6-1-2002; Ord. 616,
passed 8-17-2004; Ord. 886, passed 12-19-2023)
LITTER
§ 91.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required by the ordinances of the city pertaining to depositing of trash and
garbage for the purpose of collection.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, sample, device, pamphlet, notice,
paper, circular, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original of any
matter of literature, which advertises for sale any merchandise, product or
thing, or which directs attention to any business, commercial establishment,
political campaign, theatrical performance, exhibition, event or other
activity, for the purpose of promoting the interest thereof by sales or for the
purpose of acquiring private gain, profit or benefit.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation, including any periodical or
current magazine published with not less than four issues per year, and sold to
the public.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property, which is not owned by or under the
control of a person who may be accused of committing the act described in §
91.51(B)(1) of this chapter.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, road, sidewalk, alley, easement, park, ditch,
drain or area of land or property open to the general public use.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-1)
§ 91.51 LITTER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Public ways, public places.
      (1)   It is an offense for any person to willfully throw or leave or
deposit any garbage, grass or weed cuttings, refuse, litter or other items and
matter, commonly referred to as trash, upon or into any public street, road,
parking area, drainage ditch or other public place, not designated as a public
dump ground established and under the control of the city.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit litter in or upon
any street, sidewalk or other public place within the city, except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection, or in official
city dumps.
   (B)   Private property.
      (1)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to willfully throw,
leave or deposit any garbage, grass cuttings, refuse, litter or any other items
and matter, commonly referred to as trash, upon or into any private property,
ditch, drain or driveway, which is not owned by or under the control of the
person committing such act. A conviction for violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall not preclude the prosecution of the charge of trespass,
should the facts involved include a violation of the crime of trespass as
provided by the ordinances of the city.
      (2)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property except that the person in control of private property may keep private
receptacles for collection of litter to be prevented from being deposited upon
streets, sidewalks and other public places.
   (C)   Vacant property. It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit
litter on any open or vacant property within the city, whether owned by such
person or not.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.52 USE OF RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Prevent litter from scattering. Persons placing litter in public
receptacles or in authorized private receptacles shall do so in such manner as
to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to place litter in public
receptacles or in authorized receptacles in the way and manner as provided by
division (A) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.53 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   (A)   Sweeping into street. No person shall sweep into or deposit in any
gutter, street or other public place within the city the accumulation of litter
from any building, yard or lot, or from any public or private sidewalk or
driveway.
   (B)   Keeping sidewalks free of litter. Persons owning or occupying property
shall keep the sidewalks abutting their premises free of litter or
obstructions.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-4) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.54 VEHICLE LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck, cart, or other vehicle within the
city unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown, scattered or deposited upon any street,
alley or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-5) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.55 DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Public ways, public places.
      (1)   Streets, sidewalks. No person shall throw or deposit any commercial
or noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place
within the city or hand out or distribute or sell commercial handbills in
public places.
      (2)   Throwing from aircraft. No person in an aircraft shall throw out,
drop or deposit within the city any litter, handbill or any other object.
      (3)   Posting to poles, trees. No person, except a duly elected or
appointed officer or employee of the city while acting within the proper
authority of such office or employment, shall post or affix any notice,
commercial or noncommercial handbills, poster or other paper calculated to
attract the attention of the public, to any lamp post, public utility pole or
shade tree in a public place, or on any public structure, except as may be
authorized or required by law.
   (B)   Uninhabited property. No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in
or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited.
   (C)   Private property. It is unlawful to throw, deposit or distribute any
handbill upon any private premises, if requested not to do so, or where signs
are displayed bearing the words “No Trespassing”, “No Peddlers or Agents”, “No
Advertisement”, or similar notice indicating that the occupants do not desire
to have their privacy disturbed.
   (D)   Inhabited property.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial
or noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited,
except by transmitting directly to the owner, occupant or persons present upon
such private premises. In cases of inhabited private premises which are not
posted, handbills must be placed securely to prevent same from blowing on
sidewalks, streets, or other public places.
         (b)   Mailboxes may not be used when so prohibited by federal postal
laws or regulations.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution
of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall
be placed on private property so as to prevent being carried or deposited upon
any street, sidewalk or public place or on other private property.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-6) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Burning trash and debris. Penalty for burning, in violation of §
91.37, without first obtaining any permit is $150 plus court costs. Penalty for
violation of the terms of the permit guidelines is $50, including court costs
for the first offense each year; $100, including court costs for the second
offense each year; and $225, including court costs for the third offense each
year.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-13)
   (C)   Penalty for conviction of violating §
91.38.
      (1)   Upon a conviction for unsightliness in violation of §
91.38, the occupant shall be punishable by $20 court costs and a $100 fine.
Upon a second conviction, the fine is increased to $140 including court costs.
Upon a third conviction, the fine is increased to $160 including court costs.
Tickets shall be issued at not less than ten-day intervals.
      (2)   In the event any ticket is not paid, the amount may be posted as a
judgment in the County Clerk’s office against the named occupant. Further, a
city warrant shall issue, and the conviction reported to the State Department
of Public Safety as in other cases.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-14)
(Ord. 612, passed 4-2-2002, eff. 6-1-2002; Ord. 616, passed 8-17-2004; Ord.
836, passed 5-20-2014)
CHAPTER 92: RECREATION
Section
Recreation and Park Facilities
   
92.01   Rules for recreational facilities
   
92.02   Determination of fees
   
92.03   Use of parks and public areas; consent required
   
92.04   Waiver of provisions
   
92.05   Presumptive evidence of overnight camping
   
92.06   Unlawful use of motor vehicles
   
92.07   Free fishing
   
92.08   Wading or swimming; damaging poles
City Lakes
   
92.20   Definition
   
92.21   Garbage and trash; glass containers
   
92.22   Motorcycles, other vehicles restricted
   
92.23   Swimming in lake
   
92.24   Picnics, regulations
   
92.25   Firearms, bow and arrow use restrictions
   
92.26   Fishing rules
   
92.27   Fishing tournaments
   
92.28   Hunting activities
   
92.29   Duck blinds
   
92.30   Trapping
   
92.31   Taking frogs from lakes
   
92.32   Boating requirements and restrictions
   
92.33   Jet ski use restrictions
   
92.34   Water skiers regulated
   
92.35   Camping regulations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
RECREATION AND PARK FACILITIES
§ 92.01 RULES FOR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   The City Council shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce such
rules, regulations, and other requirements, as it deems necessary or expedient
in connection with fishing and fishing privileges, hunting and hunting
privileges, boating and boating privileges, and swimming, and the use of all
other recreational facilities owned or operated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 92.02 DETERMINATION OF FEES.
   The city shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such recreational privileges on any property or facility for recreational
purpose owned or operated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 USE OF PARKS AND PUBLIC AREAS; CONSENT REQUIRED.
   The use of the parks and public areas within the corporate limits of the
city for overnight camping is prohibited without the consent of the Mayor and
Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 92.04 WAIVER OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter may be waived by the Mayor and Council at any
regular or special meeting in favor of any person, organized group or
association, for such time as specified, not to exceed five days and nights,
consecutively.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4)
§ 92.05 PRESUMPTIVE EVIDENCE OF OVERNIGHT CAMPING.
   The installation or stopping of any trailer or the erection of any tent or
shelter after one hour before sundown in the areas described in §
92.03 of this chapter shall constitute presumptive evidence of the breach of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5)
§ 92.06 UNLAWFUL USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive any truck, automobile, motorcycle,
motor scooter, or other motor vehicle or to ride any horse, pony or other
animal in or upon the public parks within the limits of the city except upon
clearly defined public roadways or public parking areas in such parks or except
in cases of public necessity when authorized and directed to do so by public
officials of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 FREE FISHING.
   (A)   Persons age 65 and over. Any resident of the city who is of the age of
65 years and over may hereafter fish free of any charge or fee in the waters of
any reservoir under the control and management of the city.
   (B)   July Fourth. There is no charge or fee to any person, regardless of
age, who is a resident of the city for fishing in any reservoir under the
control and management of the city on the date of July 4 of any year.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7)
§ 92.08 WADING OR SWIMMING; DAMAGING POLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to wade or swim in any lakes or ponds in
public parks within the city or to climb upon or otherwise damage light poles,
bulbs and fixtures around such lakes or ponds.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8) Penalty, see §
92.99
CITY LAKES
§ 92.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the term LAKE shall mean and include the
two Holdenville city lakes, commonly known as Holdenville Lake and “The Old
Lake”.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
§ 92.21 GARBAGE AND TRASH; GLASS CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Garbage.
      (1)   No garbage or other trash shall be dumped or placed in the lake, or
on the lake, or the adjacent land belonging to the city.
      (2)   All garbage shall be placed in containers provided by the city.
   (B)   Unused bait; animal flesh. No person shall throw into, or permit to
enter the lake, or place, throw or deposit upon the premises surrounding the
lake any unused bait, flesh of animals or fish, or other matter subject to
putrefaction, or any human or animal excreta, or any other unsanitary or
unsightly thing.
   (C)   Glass containers. There shall be no glass containers permitted upon
the Holdenville Lake or lake property. Glass food containers will be permitted,
but must be removed when leaving the lake property.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2) (Ord. 577, passed 6-7-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 MOTORCYCLES, OTHER VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Driving in designated areas only. It is unlawful for any motorcycle,
four wheeler, dirt bike not licensed by the state, or any other vehicle to
operate any place on the lake premises, except on designated roads or areas as
demarcated by the lake superintendent.
   (B)   Motorcycles; secondary roads; hours restricted. It is unlawful to
operate a motorcycle on the lake secondary roads from dark to daylight of any
day.
   (C)   Three-wheeled vehicles prohibited. Three-wheeled vehicles shall not be
operated on any lake property.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 SWIMMING IN LAKE.
   (A)   Public swimming is permitted in the Holdenville Lake.
   (B)   People will be swimming at their own risk.
   (C)   No life guards will be on duty.
   (D)   The hours of swimming will be from sunup until sundown.
   (E)   Swimming is to be confined to the designated swimming area only.
   (F)   There shall be no alcoholic beverages of any kind in or near the land
or water area.
   (G)   There shall be no foul language in the area.
   (H)   No sharp or glass objects are to be thrown in swimming area.
   (I)   There shall be no disorderly conduct.
   (J)   No children under the age of 12 shall be permitted to wade or swim in
the swimming area unless accompanied by an adult at least 18 years old.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 PICNICS, REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Cleanup. All persons holding picnics or other group gatherings on the
lake must clean and remove all trash and refuse in areas where there are no
trash containers.
   (B)   Fires. All fires must be properly extinguished before leaving the
area.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5)
§ 92.25 FIREARMS, BOW AND ARROW USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms, bow and arrow. It is unlawful to discharge any
firearm around or on the lake, except under the following conditions.
      (1)   Duck hunting will be allowed during the annual duck season as
established by federal regulations.
      (2)   Quail hunting will be allowed during the annual quail season as
established by state regulations.
      (3)   Squirrel hunting will be allowed by shotgun or bow and arrow only
during the annual squirrel season as established by state regulations.
      (4)   Deer hunting will be allowed with bow and arrow only, in state
regulated season and with proper license.
      (5)   The lake superintendent shall have the authority to authorize skeet
and turkey shoots.
      (6)   The lake superintendent may also authorize such licensed persons as
he or she may deem fit to use firearms in the destruction of turtles, beavers
and snakes around the lakes, to protect water quality, public safety and
fishing areas.
   (B)   Use during activities. The use of rifles or pistols is expressly
prohibited in any activity unless authorized by the lake superintendent under
this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 FISHING RULES.
   (A)   Compliance with state laws. All persons who fish, spear or bow fish in
or around the lake pursuant to this section shall abide by all of the
applicable fishing laws of the state.
   (B)   Boating permit required. All boats used for fishing purposes must
possess a current Lake Holdenville boating permit.
   (C)   Possession of bass. It is unlawful for any person to have in their
possession any largemouth or smallmouth bass less than ten inches in length.
   (D)   Trotlines. It is unlawful for any person to place a trotline,
regardless of type or size, within the designated skiing area of the lake
between April 1 and October 1 of any given year.
   (E)   Gill or trammel nets prohibited. The use of any gill or trammel net,
regardless of size or type, is prohibited anywhere upon the lakes.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-7) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 FISHING TOURNAMENTS.
   (A)   Permission required. Any group or club planning a fishing outing or
tournament must obtain permission from the superintendent at least ten days
prior to the event.
   (B)   Boating permit. Each boat participating in such an outing must possess
a current boating permit.
   (C)   Authority to prohibit. The lake superintendent, with the authority of
the City Council, shall have the power to prohibit a fishing tournament.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-8) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 HUNTING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Permit required; fee. All persons engaged in hunting activities as
prescribed in previous sections and this section shall obtain an annual permit
from the lake superintendent or from the City Clerk’s office. The fee for such
permit shall be $5.
   (B)   Compliance with state game laws. All persons engaged in hunting
activities shall do so pursuant to the game laws of the state.
   (C)   Rifle or pistol prohibited; exception. Hunting with a rifle or pistol
is prohibited. Shotguns with pellets only are allowed.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-9)
§ 92.29 DUCK BLINDS.
   (A)   Permit required; fee. No duck blinds shall be built upon the lakes
without first securing a permit, in addition to the hunting permit, from the
lake superintendent. The annual duck blind permit fee shall be $5.
   (B)   Location restriction. No duck blind shall be built closer to another
existing blind than 200 yards.
   (C)   Car or truck bodies prohibited. No car or truck bodies will be allowed
to be used as duck blinds.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-10)
§ 92.30 TRAPPING.
   Trappers will be allowed on the city lakes pursuant to the applicable game
laws of the state and with the permission of the lake superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-11)
§ 92.31 TAKING FROGS FROM LAKES.
   (A)   Gigs and lights permitted. Frogs may be taken on the lakes by use of
frog spears (gigs) and lights.
   (B)   Nets, seines and firearms prohibited. No frogs may be taken on the
lakes by the use of nets or seines, or by the use of firearms.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-12)
§ 92.32 BOATING REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Boating permits; fees.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to place or use any boat on the lake
unless a current permit has been issued for such boat. Residents of the city
and county shall purchase their permits at the office of the City Clerk. Out-
of-county residents shall obtain their permits from the lake superintendent.
      (2)   The fee for the permit shall be:
         (a)   The annual permit for county residents shall be $10 for boats
with less than 25 horsepower motor, or $25 for boats with 25 horsepower motor
or more.
         (b)   The annual permit for out-of-county residents shall be $50
regardless of the horsepower of the craft, or a daily permit of $6.
         (c)   Daily permits for in-county residents may be obtained from the
lake superintendent for $4 for weekdays (Monday through Saturday) and $5 per
day for Sundays and holidays.
         (d)   Dealer’s license shall be $15 per year.
      (3)   The annual license of each boat shall be designated by the proper
sticker which must be displayed immediately behind the license on the left side
of the boat, and an annual sticker shall also be placed on the tongue of the
boat trailer.
      (4)   Current full time city employees and retired city employees shall
be issued a boating permit sticker at no charge by the City Clerk. Should an
employee terminate his or her employment with the city, or should the city
terminate a person’s employment, that person shall be required to purchase a
new boating permit.
      (5)   Any second violation of any provision of this division (A), upon
conviction in city court, shall result in automatic cancellation of the permit
of such holder. The convicted holder shall not be eligible for another boating
permit until the next calendar year.
      (6)   An annual permit issued under this division (A) shall be valid for
the calendar year, unless sooner suspended or revoked.
   (B)   Owner responsibility. All boat owners are fully responsible for the
operation of their boats on the lakes whether being controlled by the owner or
used by someone else as the operator, with or without the boat owner’s
permission.
   (C)   Size restrictions. Outboard motors of any size or type may be used on
the lakes, as long as the horsepower rating of the motor does not exceed that
of the boat.
   (D)   Speed, reckless operations.
      (1)   All boats shall be operated at a reasonably safe speed and in such
a manner as to avoid interfering with or disturbing persons fishing.
      (2)   Motor propelled boats shall not come nearer than 75 feet to any
bank, dock, other boats, or the tower, while cruising at speeds such as to
create a visible wake.
      (3)   Boats within the launching ramp area shall move only at such speed
as shall not create a visible wake.
   (E)   Boat safety rules.
      (1)   All motorboats used at night shall carry proper lights, as governed
by state law and coast guard regulations. All rowboats and other nonmotor
propelled boats used at night shall have a minimum of one light shining.
      (2)   No boat shall be overloaded while upon the lakes. The lake
superintendent shall be the sole judge as to whether or not a boat is
overloaded in any instance in which a boat does not possess a listed load
limit.
      (3)   All motor propelled boats must carry at least one Coast Guard
approved portable fire extinguisher, which is readily accessible, and in good
serviceable condition.
      (4)   No person shall operate any boat unless there is at least one
flotation device for each person in the boat approved by the U.S. Coast Guard.
      (5)   No person shall operate any boat or vessel, or manipulate any water
skis while intoxicated or under the influence of any substance included in the
Uniform Controlled Dangerous Drug Act of the State of Oklahoma (63 O.S. §§ 2-
101 et seq.).
      (6)   The use of rubber boats or rafts of less than 12 feet in length is
prohibited except within the designated swimming area.
      (7)   No person shall ride on or in any motorboat being operated on Lake
Holdenville except in a seat provided by the boat manufacturer for passenger or
operator of the boat.
      (8)   Persons inexperienced in boat operating or persons under the age of
14 years shall not operate a motor propelled boat on the lakes unless
accompanied by an adult experienced in boat operations.
      (9)   Small paddle boats, propelled by foot driven propulsion as may be
approved by the lake superintendent, may be operated anywhere on the lake but
no more than 50 feet from the shoreline.
      (10)   No person shall operate a boat on the lake, whether pulling skiers
or not pulling skiers, closer than 300 feet behind a skier at any time, or
closer than 100 feet to the side of a skier.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-13) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.33 JET SKI USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required; fees.
      (1)   Permit. Due to the increased use of jet skis on the Holdenville
Lake, the city will require that permits be purchased for such vehicles.
      (2)   Fees. The fees for such vehicles shall be the same as set forth in
the Holdenville municipal lake rules and ordinances for boats.
         (a)   The fees shall be as follows:
 
All out-of-county boats for annual permit                   $50
All out-of-county boats for daily permit                    $6
All in-county boats 25 horsepower or more for annual permit $25
All in-county boats under 25 horsepower for annual permit   $10
In-county weekday permit (Monday through Saturday)          $4
In-county on Sundays or holidays (daily permit)             $5
 
         (b)   These fees shall henceforth apply to all jet skis in use on the
Holdenville Lake.
   (B)   Safety rules; skiing pattern. Jet skis shall be required to follow the
same skiing and boating safety rules and skiing pattern as boats.
   (C)   Designated areas. Jet propelled ski bikes are to be used only in the
designated skiing area of the lake.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-14) (Ord. 573, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 92.34 WATER SKIERS REGULATED.
   (A)   Privilege granted.
      (1)   Water skiers’ privileges shall be granted on Lake Holdenville, only
under the terms and conditions prescribed in this section, and the city assumes
no responsibility for such activities.
      (2)   The privilege of water skiing on Lake Holdenville will be
automatically revoked upon the second violation of any provision of this
section.
   (B)   Restrictions.
      (1)   No skiers shall be permitted on the lake between one hour after
sunset and one hour before sunrise.
      (2)   Skiing outside the designated area shall be unlawful.
      (3)   No more than two skiers are to be pulled by any one boat at any
time except on designated special occasions, such as water carnivals and other
special events.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to manipulate water skis, surfboards
or similar devices unless the person being towed is wearing a coast guard
approved flotation device.
      (5)   No boat shall operate on Lake Holdenville while pulling skiers
unless such boat possesses a rear view mirror, or unless there is another
individual behind the operator of the boat above 12 years of age.
   (C)   Required pattern, takeoff. Skiers will use a counterclockwise pattern
at all times. Ski takeoffs will be permitted from any point within the
designated ski area, except in the immediate vicinity of the boat launching
ramp and the lake tower.
   (D)   Other skiing safety rules.
      (1)   Tow ropes must be pulled in immediately after a skier has dropped
off, regardless of the circumstances.
      (2)   No person shall drop a ski on the lake unless there is another boat
present and available to pick it up immediately, for the safety of other
skiers.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-15)
§ 92.35 CAMPING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Fees.
      (1)   All camping fees (permits) shall be issued by the lake
superintendent or such other agent appointed the lake superintendent. The paid
reservation and occupancy rules for campers relating to their paid reserved
area shall be enforced by the lake superintendent, whose interpretation shall
be binding on all parties.
      (2)   Campers shall be charged a fee of $5 per night per tent, camper,
motorhome or any other camping unit in primitive camp sites. Campsites with
electric only are $10 per night per camping unit, and campsites with electric
and water are $15 per night per camping unit.
   (B)   Designated areas.
      (1)   Overnight camping will be permitted only in those areas designated
by the lake superintendent.
      (2)   Overnight camping in boats or on the water, whether moored or tied
to the bank, will not be permitted.
      (3)   Noncampers are not permitted in the designated camping areas, or on
Holdenville City Lake property from the hours of 12:30 a.m. until 5:00 a.m.,
except for fishermen checking existing lines.
   (C)   Rules and regulations. Campers shall abide by all the laws, rules and
regulations of this section and other sections of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-16)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to use any city recreational facilities
or to hunt, fish, swim or use any boat in connection with any of the
recreational facilities owned or operated by the city without having complied
with the rules and regulations promulgated by the City Council in connection
therewith. Anyone violating any of the rules and regulations, or failing to
comply with such, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-9)
   (C)   Anyone in violation of §
92.21(C) will be fined, said fine to be $50.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2) (Ord. 577, passed 6-7-1994)
CHAPTER 93: FOOD SERVICE SANITATION
Section
   
93.01   U.S. Food Service Sanitation Ordinance adopted
§ 93.01 U.S. FOOD SERVICE SANITATION ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The unabridged form of the latest edition of the United States Public Health
Service Food Service Sanitation Ordinance and Code is hereby adopted and
incorporated in this code by reference. At least one copy of the sanitation
ordinance and code shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk. The
sanitation ordinance and code shall govern the definitions; inspection of food
service establishments; the issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to
operate food service establishments; the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated
or misbranded food or drink and the enforcement of this section. In the
sanitation ordinance and code; however, all parenthetical phrases referring to
grading and the following subsections shall be understood to be deleted:
subsections H2e, H7 and H8.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-1)
CHAPTER 94: HYGIENE REGULATIONS FOR SECURE FACILITIES
Section
   
94.01   Showers
   
94.02   Enforcement and appeal
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 SHOWERS.
   (A)   Number of facilities. There shall be provided within the design of any
secure facility adequate shower facilities with tempered water for use by the
residents or incarcerates therein. Such facilities shall be provided as
follows:
      (1)   General population housing. At least one shower for every eight
beds;
      (2)   Segregation housing. At least one shower for every 15 beds; and
      (3)   Medical housing. At least one shower for every four beds.
   (B)   Application of provisions. These provisions shall apply to new
facilities, and any additions, enlargements, or other modifications to existing
facilities. Further, any existing secure facilities shall be brought into
compliance with this chapter within six months of adoption hereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-1) (Ord. 608, passed 2-6-2001)
§ 94.02 ENFORCEMENT AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Enforcement officer. The city inspector shall be responsible for
inspection and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Appeal to Council. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the city
inspector may appeal to the City Council according to the procedure contained
in §§
150.087 and
150.999(F) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-2) (Ord. 608, passed 2-6-2001)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notice of violation; remedial action. Any person found to be violating
any provision of this chapter shall be served by the city with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Penalty imposed. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that the violation continues beyond
the time limit shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-3) (Ord. 608, passed 2-6-2001)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Storing or keeping explosives
Fireworks
   
95.15   Sale and use prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES.
   It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the city any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder, or any other highly explosive material or
substance, except that gunpowder may be kept in quantities of not to exceed
five pounds where the same is securely kept.
(Prior Code, § 4-10-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIREWORKS
§ 95.15 SALE AND USE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, FIREWORKS shall have the
meaning as defined in state law, 68 O.S. § 1622.
   (B)   Prohibition.
      (1)   The sale, use, display, firing, igniting, lighting or discharge of
fireworks within the city is unlawful and an offense. Nothing in this section
shall permit the use or discharge or lighting of any fireworks in the city’s
fire limits or within 150 feet of any hospital, public meeting or place of
religious worship.
      (2)   It is unlawful to use, shoot, ignite, light or discharge fireworks
in the places included in division (B)(1) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-1) (Ord. 558, passed 11-18-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Abandonment of vehicles
   
96.03   Leaving on street or private property
   
96.04   Impoundment authorized
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street, highway
or alleyway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles and tractors.
(Prior Code, § 4-11-1)
§ 96.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city, and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
(Prior Code, § 4-11-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03 LEAVING ON STREET OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Leaving on street prohibited. No person shall leave any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked vehicle on any street, highway or
alleyway within the city.
   (B)   Storing on private property prohibited; exception. No person in charge
or control of any property within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant,
lessee or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, nonoperating,
wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than ten
days. This chapter shall not apply with regard to:
      (1)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (2)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise; or
      (3)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-11-3)
§ 96.04 IMPOUNDMENT AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   City authority. The Chief of Police, or any member of his or her
Department designated by him or her, is hereby authorized to remove or have
removed any vehicle left at any place within the city which reasonably appears
to be in violation of this chapter or lost, stolen or unclaimed.
   (B)   Term of impoundment. Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully
claimed or disposed of in accordance with the ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-11-4)
CHAPTER 97: ACCESS AND USE OF TOBACCO
Section
Access to Tobacco
   
97.01   Youth access to tobacco
   
97.02   Display of tobacco age restriction signage
   
97.03   Public access to tobacco products
   
97.04   Tobacco paraphernalia
Smoking in Public Places and Indoor Workplaces
   
97.15   Public nuisance declared
   
97.16   Prohibition
   
97.17   Enforcement
 
   
97.99   Penalty
ACCESS TO TOBACCO
§ 97.01 YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO.
   (A)   Definition. The following definition shall apply in this chapter
preventing youth access to tobacco.
      TOBACCO VENDING MACHINE. Includes any machine or device designated for
the use or used for the vending of cigarettes, cigars, tobacco or tobacco
products upon the insertion of coins, trade checks or slugs.
   (B)   Sale and furnishing tobacco products to minors.
      (1)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to sell or furnish in
any manner any tobacco product to any person under the age of 21, or to
purchase in any manner a tobacco product on behalf of any such person. It shall
not be unlawful for an employee under 21 years of age to handle tobacco
products when required in the performance of the employee’s duties.
      (2)   Proof of age.
         (a)   Demanding proof of age. A person engaged in the sale or
distribution of tobacco products shall demand proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of
appearance that the prospective purchaser may be under 21 years of age.
         (b)   Identification. Proof of age includes a driver’s license or
other government issued photo identification purporting to establish that the
purchaser was 21 or older and the defendant confirmed the validity of the
driver’s license or other government issued photo identification presented by
the purchaser by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction
device.
         (c)   Defense. Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and
reasonably relied upon proof of age shall be a defense. Provided, however, that
this defense is not available, that if said defendant failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the license or identification used was that of the person who
presented it.
   (C)   Tobacco vending machines.
      (1)   Conditions for operation of vending machines. It shall be unlawful
for the owner or manager of any building or business, and any other person in
lawful possession or control of the space, upon which a tobacco vending machine
sits, to permit or allow to be operated a tobacco vending machine unless:
         (a)   The machine is located in a workplace where the general public
is 21 years of age or older; or
         (b)   The machine is located in a workplace where the general public
is not usually admitted and where such machines are for the use of the
employees therein. In such cases, it shall be the responsibility of the owner
or manager of any building or business and any other person in lawful
possession of said machine to bar access to the machine by persons under 21
years of age.
(Prior Code, § 4-13-1) (Ord. 735, passed 11-3-2009) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.02 DISPLAY OF TOBACCO AGE RESTRICTION SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Any person who sells or displays tobacco products at retail must post
conspicuously at the place of business a sign stating the following:
   IT IS THE LAW. WE DO NOT SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS
   UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (B)   The sign shall also provide a toll free telephone number for the
purpose of reporting violations of the Prevention for Youth Access to Tobacco
Act, being 63 O.S. §§ 1-229.1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 4-13-2) (Ord. 735, passed 11-3-2009)
§ 97.03 PUBLIC ACCESS TO TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to display or offer for sale tobacco
products in any manner that allows public access to the tobacco product without
assistance from the person displaying the tobacco product or an employee or
owner of the store.
   (B)   If the business does not admit into the store persons under 18 years
of age this section does not apply.
(Prior Code, § 4-13-3) (Ord. 735, passed 11-3-2009)
§ 97.04 TOBACCO PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner to a
person under the age of 18 years of age any material or device used in the
smoking, chewing, or other method of consumption of tobacco including cigarette
paper, pipes, holders of smoker materials of all types, and other items
designed primarily for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products.
(Prior Code, § 4-13-4) (Ord. 735, passed 11-3-2009)
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND INDOOR WORKPLACES
§ 97.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   (1)   The possession of lighted tobacco in any form is a public
nuisance and dangerous to public health and is hereby prohibited when such
possession is in any indoor place used by or open to the public, public
transportation or any indoor workplace, except where specifically allowed by
law.
      (2)   As used in this chapter, INDOOR WORKPLACE means any indoor place of
employment or a employment type service for or at the request of another
individual or individuals, or any public or private entity, whether part time
or full time and whether for compensation or not. Such services shall include,
without limitation, any service performed by an owner, employee, independent
contractor, agent, partner, proprietor, manager, officer, director, apprentice,
trainee, associate, servant or volunteer. An indoor workplace includes work
areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee
cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees, and all
space between a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or totally enclosed by
walls or windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed windows,
stairways, or the like. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to such
indoor workplaces at any given time, whether or not work is being performed.
   (B)   All buildings, or portions thereof, owned or operated by this city
shall be designated as nonsmoking. As used in this division (B), BUILDINGS
shall not include up to 25% of any hotel or motel rooms rented to guests if the
rooms are properly ventilated so that smoke is not circulated to nonsmoking
areas.
   (C)   No smoking shall be allowed within 25 feet of the entrance or exit of
any building specified in division (B) of this section.
   (D)   The restriction provided in this section shall not apply to stand
alone bars, stand alone taverns and cigar bars.
   (E)   The restrictions provided in this section shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   The room(s) where licensed charitable bingo games are being
operated, but only during the hours of operation of such games;
      (2)   Up to 25% of the guestrooms at a hotel or other lodging
establishment;
      (3)   Retail tobacco stores predominantly engaged in the sale of tobacco
products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental and in which no food or beverage is sold or served for consumption
on the premises;
      (4)   Workplaces where only the owner or operator of the workplace, or
the immediate family of the owner or operator, performs any work in the
workplace, and the workplace has only incidental public access. INCIDENTAL
PUBLIC ACCESS means that a place of business has only an occasional person, who
is not an employee, present at the business to transact business or make a
delivery;
      (5)   Workplaces occupied exclusively by one or more smokers, if the
workplace has only incidental public access;
      (6)   Private offices occupied exclusively by one or more smokers;
      (7)   Workplaces within private residences, except that smoking shall not
be allowed inside any private residence that is used as a licensed childcare
facility during hours of operation;
      (8)   Medical research or treatment centers, if smoking is integral to
the research or treatment;
      (9)   A facility operated by a post or organization of past or present
members of the armed forces of the United States which is exempt from taxation
pursuant to §§ 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue
Code, 26 U.S.C. when such facility is utilized exclusively by its members and
their families and for the conduct of post or organization nonprofit operations
except during an event or activity which is open to the public; and
      (10)   Any outdoor seating area of a restaurant; provided, smoking shall
not be allowed within 15 feet of any exterior public doorway or any air intake
of a restaurant.
   (F)   An employer not otherwise restricted from doing so may elect to
provide smoking rooms where no work is performed except for cleaning and
maintenance during the time the room is not in use for smoking, provided each
smoking room is fully enclosed and exhausted directly to the outside in such a
manner that no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking area. No exhaust
from a smoking room shall be located within 15 feet of any entrance, exit, or
air intake.
   (G)   If smoking is to be permitted in any space exempted above, such
smoking space must either occupy the entire enclosed indoor space or if it
shares the enclosed space with any nonsmoking areas, the smoking space shall be
fully enclosed, exhausted directly to the outside with no air from the smoking
space circulated to any nonsmoking area, and under negative air pressure so
that no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking area when a door to an
adjacent nonsmoking area is opened. Air from a smoking room shall not be
exhausted within 15 feet of any enhance, exit, or air intake. Any employer may
choose a more restrictive smoking policy, including being totally smoke free.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision, restaurants may have designated
smoking and nonsmoking areas or may be designated as being a totally nonsmoking
area. Restaurants shall be totally nonsmoking or may provide nonsmoking areas
and designated smoking rooms. Food and beverage may be served in such
designated smoking rooms which shall be in a location which is fully enclosed,
directly exhausted to the outside, under negative air pressure so smoke cannot
escape when a door is opened, and no air is recirculated to nonsmoking areas of
the building. No exhaust from such room shall be located within 25 feet of any
entrance, exit, or air intake. Such room shall be subject to verification for
compliance with these provisions by the State Department of Health.
   (I)   The person who owns or operates a place where smoking or tobacco use
is prohibited by law shall be responsible for posting a sign or decal, at least
four by two inches in size, at each entrance to the building indicating that
the place is smoke free or tobacco free.
   (J)   Responsibility for posting signs or decals shall be as follows:
      (1)   In privately owned facilities, the owner or lessee, if a lessee is
in possession of the facilities, shall be responsible;
      (2)   In corporately owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of
the facility involved shall be responsible; and
      (3)   In publicly owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of the
facility involved shall be responsible.
(Prior Code, § 4-14-1) (Ord. 737, passed 11-17-2009) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.16 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Generally. Except as specifically provided in the smoking in public
places and indoor workplaces act, no person shall smoke in a public place, in
an indoor workplace, in any vehicle providing public transportation, at a
meeting of a public body, in a nursing facility licensed pursuant to the
nursing home care act, or in a childcare facility licensed pursuant to the
Oklahoma Child Care Facilities Licensing Act, being 10 O.S. § 401-410. A
nursing facility licensed pursuant to the nursing home care act may designate
smoking rooms for residents and their guests. Such rooms shall be fully
enclosed, directly exhausted to the outside, and shall be under negative air
pressure so that no smoke can escape when a door is opened and no air is
recirculated to nonsmoking areas of the building.
   (B)   Educational facilities.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, an educational facility which offers
an early childhood education program or in which children in grades
kindergarten through 12 are educated shall prohibit smoking, the use of snuff
chewing tobacco or any other form of tobacco product in the buildings and on
the grounds of the facility by all persons including, but not limited to, full
time, part time, and contract employees, during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 4:00
p.m., during the school sessions, or when class or any program established for
students is in session.
      (2)   Career and technology centers may designate smoking areas outside
of buildings, away from general traffic areas and completely out of sight of
children under 18 years of age, for use by adults attending training courses,
sessions, meetings or seminars.
      (3)   An educational facility may designate smoking areas outside the
building for the use of adults during certain activities or functions,
including, but not limited to, athletic contests.
   (C)   Educational facilities; more restrictive policy. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit educational facilities from having more
restrictive policies regarding smoking and the use of other tobacco products in
the building or on the grounds of the facility.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INDOOR AREA. Any enclosed area on municipal property used or visited by
employees or the public, at all times, regardless of whether work is being
performed. INDOOR AREA includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, and any other
spaces used or visited by employees, as well as all space between a floor and
ceiling that is predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows,
regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed windows, stairways, or the like.
      MUNICIPAL PROPERTY. All buildings, indoor areas, and outdoor areas,
including but not limited to recreational areas, and other property, or
portions thereof, owned or operated by the city including, but not limited to,
vehicles and equipment owned by the municipality.
      OUTDOOR AREA. Any area that is not an indoor area, and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
      SMOKING. The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or
other lighted smoking device.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption, but does not include any product approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product.
      VAPOR PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product that may or may not contain
nicotine that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic circuit
or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to produce a
vapor in a solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCT shall include any vapor
cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that is
intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any vapor
cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic device.
   (E)   Prohibited conduct.
      (1)   Smoking tobacco products is prohibited in all places in which
smoking tobacco products is prohibited by state law.
      (2)   Using tobacco products and vapor products is prohibited on all
municipal property, indoor and outdoor, including parks and recreational areas.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits any person or entity from
prohibiting the use of tobacco products or vapor products on their property,
even if the use of tobacco products or vapor products is not otherwise
prohibited in that area.
      (4)   No person or entity shall knowingly permit the use of tobacco
products or vapor products in an area that is under the control of that person
or entity and in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is
prohibited by law.
      (5)   (a)   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash
receptacles, such as ash trays or ash cans, within an area under the control of
that person or entity and in which smoking is prohibited by law.
         (b)   However, the presence of ash receptacles shall not be a defense
to a charge of the use of tobacco products or vapor products in violation of
any provision of this chapter.
      (6)   No person shall dispose of tobacco product or vapor product waste
within an area in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is
prohibited.
      (7)   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten, or otherwise
retaliate against another person or entity that seeks to attain compliance with
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-14-2) (Ord. 737, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 858, passed 9-10-
2017) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The local government agency or the person who owns or operates a
public place shall, at a minimum, do the following in order to prevent smoking
in public places: post signs at the entrances to places where smoking is
prohibited which state that smoking is prohibited or that the indoor
environment is free of tobacco smoke.
   (B)   (1)   Violations.
         (a)   Failure to comply with the terms of this chapter shall be a
violation and such violation shall constitute a nuisance to the public.
         (b)   Each instance of tobacco product or vapor product use in
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
         (c)   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation
of any provision of this chapter regarding tobacco product or vapor product use
shall also constitute a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Enforcement. Enforcement of this chapter shall be the
responsibility of the city’s Police Department. In addition, any peace officer
or code enforcement official may enforce this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-14-3) (Ord. 737, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 858, passed 9-10-
2017)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
97.02 shall be punished as set forth hereinabove by a fine not exceeding $200,
or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 4-13-2)
   (C)   Violations of §
97.03 shall be punished as set forth hereinabove by a fine not exceeding $200,
or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 4-13-3)
   (D)   Violations of §
97.04 shall be punished as set forth hereinabove by a fine not exceeding $200,
or by imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 4-13-4)
   (E)   Any person who knowingly violates §§
97.15 through
97.17 is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 4-14-1)
   (F)   (1)   Any person who knowingly violates any provision within §§
97.15 through
97.17 shall be punished by a citation and subject to a fine of not less than
$50 and not more than $125.
      (2)   The remedies provided by §§
97.15 through
97.17 are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies available at law or
in equity.
      (3)   In addition to other remedies provided by §§
97.15 through
97.17 or by other law, any violation of this chapter regarding tobacco product
or vapor product use may be remedied by the City Attorney, including, but not
limited to, administrative or judicial nuisance abatement proceedings, Criminal
Code enforcement proceedings, and suits for injunctive relief.
(Prior Code, § 4-14-3)
(Ord. 735, passed 11-3-2009; Ord. 737, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 858, passed 9-
10-2017)
CHAPTER 98: ANIMALS
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Keeping animals and poultry; compliance required
   
98.03   Permit license fees and requirements
   
98.04   Grounds for revocation of permit license
   
98.05   Procedure for revoking permit license
   
98.06   Vaccination of dogs
   
98.07   Impoundment of biting dogs, rabies suspect
   
98.08   Running at large
   
98.09   Dog registration and taxation
   
98.10   Impoundment; disposal; redemption fees
   
98.11   Adoption of animals from pound
   
98.12   Cruelty to animals
   
98.13   Nuisance; noise
   
98.14   Nuisance animals
   
98.15   Number of animals in possession inside city
   
98.16   Determination of vicious animal
   
98.17   Requirements for keeping a potentially vicious animal
   
98.18   Right to kill dog in defense of self or another
   
98.19   Enforcement
   
98.20   Abandoning or dumping domestic animals in public place or on property
of another
   
98.21   Disposition of dead animals generally
   
98.22   Care of animals generally
   
98.23   Adequate shelter and space for animals; time restriction on tethering
dogs
   
98.24   Authority of police to take possession of animals kept in cruel manner
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL AT LARGE. Any animal that is not securely confined to the premises of
said animal’s owner by a fence or other means; or the animal is not otherwise
under the control of the owner or agent of the owner by use of a leash or other
method of RESTRAINT as defined in this section, whether on the owner’s premises
or not.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person employed by the city to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   ANIMALS. Shall include the following: dogs, cats, poultry, horses, mules,
donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep, swine or potbellied pigs and shall include every
age and sex of each of the herein named species and by whatever other name they
might be called.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm or corporation applying for a permit license to
keep animals or poultry within the corporate limits of the city.
   CURRENTLY VACCINATED. The animal is vaccinated within the following
specifications:
      (1)   The animal must have been at least three months of age at the time
of vaccination;
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed since the initial vaccination;
      (3)   Vaccination is valid in accordance with that particular vaccine’s
license and was administered by a licensed veterinarian; and
      (4)   The records of the vaccination must be available to the city either
through the animal’s owner, guardian, or veterinarian.
   DOG. Any dog, male or female.
   DOG LICENSE. A license and registration tag required to be issued annually
for each individual dog on July 1 of each year, unless a lifetime permit has
been issued.
   KEEP or HARBOR. To maintain, possess, control by use.
   OBSERVATION PERIOD. Ten-day period, beginning the day of an animal bite
incident, during which said animal’s health status must be monitored.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership or corporation that keeps, harbors or owns
one or more animals.
   PERMIT LICENSE. Any receipt or license granted by the City Clerk, showing
that fees as hereinafter set forth have been duly paid and that the holder
thereof has a right to keep and maintain animals or poultry within the city
limits under all provisions of this chapter.
   PERMIT LICENSE HOLDER. Any person, family, firm or corporation to which a
permit license has been issued and which permit license is in full force and
effect.
   POTENTIALLY VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that acts as if it intends to bite a
human or other animal, without being provoked; or, an animal that chases or
approaches a human upon a public roadway or other public area in a threatening
fashion; or, an animal demonstrating aggressive behavior, regardless of being
situated on public or private property, which causes a human to take defensive
or evasive action to avoid physical contact with the animal.
   POULTRY. Shall include the following: rabbits, hares, chickens, turkeys,
guineas, geese, ducks or pigeons, and shall include every age and sex of each
of the herein named.
   POUND. An establishment for the confinement of animals seized either under
the provisions of this chapter or otherwise.
   PROVOCATION. A purposeful act that would reasonably cause an animal to bite,
scratch or attack in protection of itself, owner or owner’s property. Entrance
in any manner upon an area where an animal is properly under restraint in
compliance with city ordinance is considered PROVOCATION, regardless of the
purpose for such entrance.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any animal that unreasonably annoys or endangers the
life or health of persons or other animals, or substantially interferes with
the rights of citizens and their enjoyment of life or property. The term
includes, but is not limited to, any animal that:
      (1)   Is repeatedly at large or stray;
      (2)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
      (3)   Molests or intimidates pedestrians or others in a public place;
      (4)   Chases vehicles or bicycles;
      (5)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other noises causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in
close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept;
      (6)   Causes fouling of the air by odor and by which creates unreasonable
annoyance to others in close proximity to where the animal is kept;
      (7)   Causes unsanitary conditions in the area which the animal is kept;
      (8)   Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare
by virtue of the number or types of animals maintained; or
      (9)   Attacks other animals.
   RATPROOF. A state of being constructed so as to effectively prevent entry of
rats.
   RESTRAINT. A method by which a dog or other animal is secured by its owner
or custodian. On the owner or custodian’s premises, RESTRAINT means that the
animal must either be physically confined by a substantial fence of sufficient
strength and height to prevent such dog or other animal from escaping
therefrom; or by an electric fence sufficiently constructed and maintained to
prevent such dog or other animal from escaping therefrom; or inside a house on
such premises; or secured on such premises by a leash consisting of a material
of sufficient strength to prevent such dog or other animal from escaping from
such premises. Leashes must not allow the dog or other animal to get on or
across or within eight feet of any sidewalk, street, public right-of-way, park,
public land or public building when such leash is stretched to its full length.
Outside the owner or custodian’s premises or on or within eight feet of a
sidewalk, street, public right-of-way, park, public land or public building,
RESTRAINT means that an animal is at all times secured by a leash or lead and
under the physical control of a responsible person and obedient to that
person’s commands.
   SANITARY. A condition of good order and cleanliness, which precludes the
probability of disease transmission.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that attacks, bites or injures human beings or
domesticated animals without adequate provocation, or which, because of
temperament, conditioning or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite,
or injure human beings or domesticated animals; or an individual animal that is
found to have a dangerous disposition and is likely to be harmful to humans or
other animals.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.02 KEEPING ANIMALS AND POULTRY; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, family, firm, or corporation to keep or
maintain in their possession any animal or poultry, as defined herein, within
the corporate limits of the city, without first meeting all of the rules and
requirements hereinafter set forth and obtaining from the City Clerk a permit
license.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.03 PERMIT LICENSE FEES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Clerk is authorized to issue to any person, family, firm or
corporation the following permits after the person, family, firm or corporation
has paid the following designated fees and by written application has shown
that he or she has fully met all other requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   Livestock.
      (1)   Permit license fee for the keeping, maintaining and having horses,
mules, donkeys, cattle, goats or sheep is $5 total annually.
      (2)   In no event shall the permit be issued unless the application
therefor states that applicant’s suitable enclosure or pen measures at least
500 square feet for each animal unit the applicant intends to keep or maintain
under the license permit, and states that the exterior limit of applicant’s
suitable pen or enclosure is at least 50 feet from the exterior limits of any
dwelling resided in by anyone other than the applicant unless all the adult
residents whose dwellings are nearer than 50 feet, waives in writing his, her
or their objections, if any, to the issuance of the permit license. The
applicant is responsible for procuring waivers of objections in order to
support his or her application.
   (B)   Potbellied pigs.
      (1)   Permit license fee for the keeping, maintaining and having
potbellied pigs is $5 annually.
      (2)   In no event shall the permit be issued unless the Police Chief or
animal control officer inspects the applicant’s location in which he or she
intends to keep the potbellied pigs and certifies in writing to the City Clerk
that the location is suitable and is not likely to become unsanitary; and in
addition, applicant must, before permit is granted, present with his or her
application signed waivers of objections to the issuance of the permit license
from all adult residents of the city residing within 100 yards of the exterior
limits of the area in which the potbellied pigs are to be confined. The width
of streets and alleys shall not be considered in determining the above measure
of distance. The applicant is responsible for procuring waivers of objections
in order to support his or her application.
   (C)   Poultry. Permit license fee for the keeping, maintaining and having
poultry is $5 annually, subject to the following.
      (1)   (a)   In no event shall the permit be granted unless the applicant
shows that the exterior lines of the house or pen in which the poultry are to
be confined are at least 100 feet to the exterior limits of any dwelling
resided in by anyone other than the applicant unless all of the adult residents
whose dwellings are nearer than 100 feet to the enclosure waives in writing his
or her objections, if any, to the issuance of the permit license.
         (b)   The applicant is responsible for procuring waivers of objections
in order to support his or her application.
      (2)   No poultry permit licenses shall be issued or be valid if the
applicant is requesting to keep within the city a combination total of more
than 12 rabbits, chickens and other poultry, or any combination thereof.
   (D)   Permit license expiration.
      (1)   Each of such permit licenses expires on January 1 of each year
unless sooner revoked.
      (2)   Keepers of poultry or animals must thereafter and on each
successive year secure a new permit license to retain the privileges granted in
the same manner and on the same conditions and applications as the permit
license originally granted, and the new permit shall be good for each calendar
year or fraction thereof, that they remain in force and effect.
      (3)   Waivers of objections from neighbors described above may be carried
over to a successive year’s application unless a neighbor revokes his or her
waiver of objection or submits an objection in writing to the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.04 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OF PERMIT LICENSE.
   (A)   Requirements. Any permit license granted under this chapter may be
revoked for failure to comply with any of the following requirements.
      (1)   All animals or poultry shall be confined at all times when not in
use, or under the immediate care and supervision of the owner or keeper, within
a suitable pen or other enclosure built and maintained in such manner as to
reasonably ensure that the animals or poultry will not escape and trespass upon
property belonging to other residents of the city.
      (2)   The permit license holders herein provided shall at all times
maintain the pens or other enclosure above referred to in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times.
      (3)   The permit license holders shall further cause all feed kept on the
premises for the animals and poultry to be stored and kept in a rat-proof, fly-
tight building, box, container or receptacle.
      (4)   A permit license holder must allow inspection of any and all of the
premises where the animals or poultry are confined or kept, by the Chief of
Police or animal control officer at any reasonable hour of the day.
   (B)   Complaint; notice to violator. Any complaint received by the Mayor,
Council member, City Clerk or police of the city to the effect that a permit
license holder has violated any of division (A) of this section shall be
reported to the animal control officer and the Chief of Police who shall
immediately proceed to inspect the permit license holder’s premises upon whom
the complaint is lodged. If in their opinion the complaint is justified, the
officers shall notify the permit license holder to correct his or her omission
within ten days or they, the officers, shall proceed to apply for cancellation
of the permit license as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.05 PROCEDURE FOR REVOKING PERMIT LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for revocation; hearing. If a permit license holder fails
to comply with the above requirements within the time specified, the animal
control officer shall file with the City Clerk an application to revoke the
permit license. A copy of the application shall be served on the permit license
holder either in person or posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
wherein the animals or poultry are confined. The application shall ask the City
Clerk to enter a revocation of the permit license seven days after the date of
filing the application to revoke and the City Clerk shall enter the revocation
as applied for unless within the seven days set out in the application for
revocation the permit license holder files with the City Clerk a letter stating
that he or she intends to appear before the municipal judge to show cause why
his or her permit license should not be revoked. If the letter of intention to
show cause is filed, the permit license holder shall forthwith proceed to the
municipal judge and ask the municipal judge to set a time certain for the
hearing convenient to the animal control officer and Chief of Police. After
such hearing which shall be conducted as a municipal court trial, the judge
shall determine whether or not the requirements imposed by the officers are
reasonable and if the permit license holder has complied with the same.
   (B)   Decision Of Municipal Judge; court costs. If the findings show that
the permit should be revoked, the Municipal Judge shall give an order to the
City Clerk ordering him or her to revoke the permit license forthwith. If the
findings are in favor of the permit license holder, the municipal judge shall
order the City Clerk not to revoke the permit license. In no event shall the
municipal judge hear the appeal unless first the permit license holder deposits
with the court the sum of $45 to represent court costs in the case and will not
be refunded in any event.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.06 VACCINATION OF DOGS.
   It is the duty of the owner, keeper and harborer of every dog in the city
once every year to cause such dog to be currently vaccinated against rabies by
a licensed veterinarian and to secure a certificate from such veterinarian of
the vaccination and attach to the collar of the dog a metal tag indicating such
vaccination. No permit license shall be issued for the keeping of the dog in
the city as this chapter provides until a certificate of such vaccination for
the year shall first be exhibited to the City Clerk or other collecting officer
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.07 IMPOUNDMENT OF BITING DOGS, RABIES SUSPECT.
   (A)   Biting dogs. Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or
which has bitten a person and caused an abrasion of the skin of such person,
shall be seized and impounded under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian
or placed in the city dog pound for an observation period of ten days. If, upon
examination by a veterinarian at the end of the observation period, the dog has
no signs of rabies, it may be released to the owner, or in the case of a stray,
it shall be impounded and/or disposed of in accordance with applicable
ordinances.
   (B)   Rabid animals. Any dog or other animal suspected of being rabid or of
having been bitten by a rabid animal may be confined by order of the animal
control officer or Police Chief and in the manner and for the time ordered by
him or her, to determine whether the animal is rabid. If a person has been
bitten or if there is good reason to believe that a person has been otherwise
infected by such animal, the animal control officer or Police Chief may have
the animal put to death in a humane manner and have it examined by medical
authority to determine whether it has rabies.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.08 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of any animal shall keep such animal under
restraint at all times and shall not permit such animal to be at large.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit the animal
to be upon any public street, sidewalk or right-of-way, unless it is kept
secured by a leash or lead by other means of restraint not harmful or injurious
to the animal and under the control of a responsible person capable of
physically restraining the animal.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided in this section, any person found who does
not restrain his or her animal, in accordance with this section, whether such
person be the owner or custodian of such animal shall be issued a summons for
violation of this section by a city animal control officer or police officer.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to any person who has a dog on his or her
private property and has control of the dog by direct supervision through
visual observation and verbal command or uses a dog under his or her direct
supervision while lawfully hunting or while engaged in a supervised obedience
training class or show.
   (E)   Any dog or other animal trained for enforcement purposes and used by
the Police Department or other legitimate law enforcement agencies shall not be
considered to be running at large if the animal is under the visual and verbal
control of its handler, trainer or police officer with or without specific
restraints.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.09 DOG REGISTRATION AND TAXATION.
   (A)   Registration required. It is the duty of every owner, keeper or
harborer of any dog three months of age to cause the dog to be registered and
the license tax paid. The license fee must be paid when the dog is brought into
the city limits or when a dog residing within city limits reaches three months
of age. Dog owners shall have the option of registering their dogs annually or
by purchasing a lifetime dog registration.
   (B)   License tax imposed.
      (1)   There is hereby imposed a license tax in the following amount for
each dog:
         (a)   Annual dog licenses.
            1.   For an unaltered dog, $10;
            2.   For a spayed/neutered dog with documentation, $5; and
            3.   For any dog whose owner is 65 or older, $5.
         (b)   Lifetime dog registration.
            1.   For an unaltered dog, $60;
            2.   For a spayed/neutered dog with documentation, $30; and
            3.   For a service dog as covered by the Americans with
Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 12101, the license tax is waived.
      (2)   License taxes will not be prorated if a dog is registered during
the year. All annual registrations are valid until December 31.
   (C)   License tax included in adoption fee. If a dog is adopted from the
city’s dog shelter, registration shall be done at the time of the adoption and
an annual license tax shall be considered part of the regular adoption fee. The
owner shall be responsible for renewing the dog’s registration by January 1st
of the next year.
   (D)   Manner of payment. It is the duty of each owner, keeper or harborer of
any dog within the limits of the city to apply to the City Clerk on or before
January 1 of each year thereafter for an annual license as herein provided, and
to furnish to the City Clerk a description of the dog together with a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian who has theretofore vaccinated the dog
for rabies as to the fact of such vaccination. The applicant should thereupon
pay to the City Clerk the license tax herein provided. Upon application and
payment of the license tax, the City Clerk shall issue a receipt which shall
contain a description of the dog upon which the license tax was paid.
   (E)   Disposition of fees. All monies collected from license fees by the
City Clerk as hereinabove provided, which shall be paid to and received by the
City Clerk, shall be paid into the city treasury, and used for the purpose of
animal control.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-9) (Ord. 861, passed 9-12-2018)
§ 98.10 IMPOUNDMENT; DISPOSAL; REDEMPTION FEES.
   (A)   Impoundment; redemption fees. All dogs found in violation of this
chapter shall be impounded. Any impounded dog which has a current license on it
shall be held five days, during which time the owner or keeper of such dog may
redeem it upon payment of a fee of $20, plus $2 for each day of impoundment.
   (B)   Disposition of unlicensed or unredeemed dogs. Any unlicensed dog or
dog not redeemed after five days of impoundment may be destroyed or given to
any person who will at the time of adoption:
      (1)   Pay the permit license fee for such dog;
      (2)   Pay the cost to have such dog spayed or castrated; and
      (3)   Pay a fee of $10 plus $2 per day of impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-10) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.11 ADOPTION OF ANIMALS FROM POUND.
   Any person who wishes to adopt an animal from the pound must not have a
record of having treated animals under their care with cruelty or neglect. Such
persons wishing to adopt animals from the shelter must have the means to care
for the animal in a humane manner. A person may be denied the opportunity to
adopt an animal from the pound if a city employee has evidence to believe that
the person has such a record or does not have adequate means to care for the
animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-11) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.12 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty. It is unlawful for any person willfully and maliciously to
pour on, or apply to, an animal any drug or other thing which inflicts pain on
the animal, or knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner; or
knowingly to neglect an animal belonging to him or her or in his or her custody
in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   (B)   Poisoning animals. It is unlawful for a person willfully to poison any
dog or other animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or knowingly to
expose poison so that the same may be taken by such an animal.
   (C)   Encouraging animals to fight. It is unlawful for any person to
instigate or encourage a fight between animals; or to encourage one animal to
attack, pursue, or annoy another animal except a noxious, nondomesticated
animal; or to keep a house, pit or other place used for fights between animals.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-12) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.13 NUISANCE; NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep a dog without exercising
proper care and control of such dog to prevent it from disturbing the peace of
others by barking in a loud, continuous or untimely manner. Any person, whether
as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, in charge or control of the
property where such dog is kept, or the owner of such dog, shall be responsible
for exercising control of such dog under this section.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any animal control officer or police officer,
who may find any dog disturbing the peace of others by barking in a loud,
continuous or untimely manner, to advise the owner of such dog, or the person
in charge or control of the property where such dog is kept, to exercise proper
control and care of such dog to prevent it from barking in such manner. If such
owner or person refuses to cooperate with the police officer or animal control
officer, or is unable to prevent such dog from barking in such manner, or if
the animal control officer or police officer is unable to locate any person on
the property where such dog is kept, it shall be the duty of the animal control
officer or police officer to take such dog into possession. The impoundment
provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to and followed by the animal
control officer, or police officer upon taking any dog into possession under
this section. For the purposes of this section, each day a nuisance exists
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit on his or her
premises or in any public place any animal or poultry that creates a public
nuisance or that makes objectionable noise and thus disturbs public peace and
rest.
   (D)   The animal control officer or police officer may issue a summons to
any person he or she finds in violation of this section.
   (E)   Any dog or other animal alleged to be a nuisance may be proceeded
against in municipal court after a complaint has been filed by any person
having knowledge thereof, with the court, animal control officer, or Chief of
Police, and if the court shall find that the animal is a nuisance, then the
court may order the owner to prevent or abate such nuisance, or the court may
order the animal impounded and the owner may have the animal returned upon
paying all costs required and giving good and sufficient bond, in the sum set
by the city, conditioned that he or she will prevent and abate such nuisance.
After 30 days, said owner may present evidence that the nuisance has been
abated or otherwise prevented, then the court may, upon such hearing, order the
bond returned.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-13) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.14 NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or her
animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance animal as defined in §
98.01 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person owning or having in his or her possession or under his or
her control any animal constituting a nuisance shall be summoned before the
municipal court of the city to show cause why such animal should not be
confined, disposed of or removed or the nuisance otherwise abated and, upon
proof that the animal constitutes a public nuisance, the animal in question
shall, by order of the municipal court, either be confined, removed from the
city, or the nuisance activity otherwise abated as such court shall order. It
shall be unlawful and shall constitute contempt of court for any person to
harbor or conceal any animal which has been ordered disposed of or removed by
the municipal court, or to fail to confine or restrain an animal when such an
order has been entered by the court.
   (C)   Any person who owns any dog, cat or other animal that has been
adjudged a nuisance pursuant to this section by the municipal court and who
appeals that decision to the district court shall be responsible for the fees
connected with the impounding of the animal by the city. If on appeal the
district court determines that the dog, cat or other animal is not a nuisance,
no such fees for the impounding of the animal shall be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-14) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.15 NUMBER OF ANIMALS IN POSSESSION INSIDE CITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership or corporation to
keep, harbor, own or have in their possession, at any one time, more than ten
dogs or ten cats or ten poultry animals inside the city. Except at such times
that one or all of the above mentioned animals shall have a litter of puppies
or kittens. As soon as these litters are old enough to be weaned from their
mothers, they shall be sold, given away or in some humane manner be removed
from the premises, so that the number of legal animals are kept.
   (B)   A person, partnership or corporation may keep, harbor, own or have in
their possession more than the aforementioned number of dogs only in the event
that they register with the state as a dog kennel or shelter and fulfill all
the requirements of licensing and maintaining a dog kennel or shelter pursuant
to 4 O.S.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-15) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.16 DETERMINATION OF VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   It shall be an offense under the terms of this chapter for any person
within the city to own, keep, possess, harbor or allow to remain upon premises
under his or her control any vicious animal.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, or his or her designated
agent, to investigate any proper claim that an animal is vicious within the
meaning of this chapter. Should the investigating official determine that a
vicious animal poses an immediate threat to the public health or safety, he or
she shall immediately seize and impound the animal, or otherwise seek an order
from the court that the animal be impounded. The Chief of Police shall also
refer the matter to the city prosecutor for approval of a verified complaint
requesting a finding by the court that the impounded animal is vicious and aid
in the proceedings instituted in the municipal court against any person for
harboring a vicious animal.
   (C)   If the court shall fail to find, upon a preponderance of the evidence
presented in an evidentiary hearing, that the animal seized and impounded is
not a vicious animal, the court shall order the Chief of Police to return the
animal to its owner. If such animal is found by the court to be a vicious
animal, the court shall order the Chief of Police to have the animal
euthanized. In the alternative, the court may order the animal to be
permanently removed from the city. Prior to removal of the animal from the
city, the animal shall be tattooed with identification marks by a licensed
veterinarian. The costs of the tattooing shall be the responsibility of the
owner of the animal.
   (D)   At the option of the owner, but subject to the approval of the Chief
of Police, an animal impounded pursuant to this section may be confined in a
private kennel or veterinary clinic during the pendency of the vicious animal
action. The operators of the facility shall then assume full liability for the
confinement and maintenance of such animal and shall not release it without
first being authorized by the Chief of Police or the court. All fees for such
impoundment shall be the responsibility of the owner. In no event shall the
city be liable for costs or fees charged by the private facility. Further, the
city may assess to the owner the cost of transporting the animal to the
privately operated impoundment facility.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-16) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.17 REQUIREMENTS FOR KEEPING A POTENTIALLY VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   Confinement. All potentially vicious animals shall be confined in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and muzzled as
provided in division (B) of this section. Such pen, kennel or structure must
have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All structures used
to confine potentially vicious animals must be locked with a key or combination
lock when such animals are within the structure. Such structure must have a
secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen which must be embedded
in the ground no less than two feet. All structures erected to house
potentially vicious animals must comply with all zoning and building
regulations of the city. All such structures must be adequately lighted,
ventilated, and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit a potentially vicious animal
to go outside its kennel or pen unless such animal is securely leashed with a
leash no longer than four feet in length. No person shall permit a potentially
vicious animal to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its
kennel or pen, unless a person is in physical control of the leash. Such
animals may not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings
and the like. In addition, all animals on a leash outside the animal’s kennel
must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such animal from
biting persons, dogs or cats.
   (C)   Sightproof fencing. In addition to other requirements provided herein,
the yard where a potentially vicious animal is kept shall be enclosed with a
six foot high sightproof fence. Said fence shall be maintained in a strong and
sturdy condition at all times so that said potentially vicious animal cannot
escape from the property. Said fence shall be maintained free of holes and
shall not contain any gap between the fence and the ground large enough for a
human limb or other animal to go through. Said fence shall also be maintained
to prevent another animal from entering the property where the potentially
vicious animal is kept. Electric fences, if installed, shall be installed in
accordance with applicable building and safety codes. Electric fences shall not
be installed on the top of the fence or be installed in such a way as to be
likely to shock humans on the opposite side of the fence.
   (D)   Signs. All owners, keepers or harborers of potentially vicious animals
must, within 30 days of notification, display in a prominent place on their
premises a sign easily readable by the public using the words “Beware Of
Potentially Vicious Animal”. In addition, a similar sign is required to be
posted on the kennel or pen of such animal.
   (E)   Insurance. A landowner or property owner that leases, rents or
otherwise allows an owner of a potentially vicious animal to keep or harbor
said animal on the landowner’s premises and all owners, keepers or harborers of
potentially vicious animals must, within 30 days of notification, provide proof
to the Chief of Police of public liability insurance in a single incident
amount of $100,000, or a surety bond issued by an insurer qualified under 36
O.S., insuring the owner for bodily injury to or death of any person or persons
or for damage to property owned by any persons which may result from the
ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal. Such insurance policy shall
provide that no cancellation of the policy will be made unless ten days’
written notice is first given to the city by the owners, keepers or harborers.
   (F)   Identification photographs. All owners, keepers or harborers of
potentially vicious animals must, within 30 days of notification, provide to
the Chief of Police two color photographs of the potentially vicious animal
clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal. Said photographs
shall be no smaller than three inches by five inches in size.
   (G)   Electronic identification tag. All owners, keepers or harborers of
potentially vicious animals must, within 30 days of notification, have an
electronic identification chip installed on the animal. The chip shall be
installed by a veterinarian licensed in the state and shall be readable with
the use of an industry standard universal reader.
   (H)   Reporting requirements. All owners, keepers or harborers of
potentially vicious animals must within 30 days of the incident, report the
following information in writing to the Chief of Police as required
hereinafter:
      (1)   The removal from the city or death of a potentially vicious animal;
      (2)   The birth of offspring of a potentially vicious animal; and
      (3)   The new address of a potentially vicious animal owner should the
owner move within the corporate city limits.
   (I)   Sale or transfer of ownership prohibited. No person shall sell, barter
or in any other way dispose of a potentially vicious animal within the city to
any person within the city unless the recipient personally resides permanently
in the same household and on the same premises as the owner of such animal;
provided that the registered owner of a potentially vicious animal may sell or
otherwise dispose of a potentially vicious animal or the offspring of such
animal to persons who do not reside within the city.
   (J)   Breeding of potentially vicious animals. It shall be unlawful to allow
any potentially vicious animal within the city to be bred.
   (K)   Animals born of potentially vicious animals. All offspring born of
potentially vicious animals registered with the city must be removed from the
city within six weeks of the birth of such animal.
   (L)   Sterilized. All owners, keepers or harborers of potentially vicious
animals must, within 30 days of notification, have the potentially vicious
animal sterilized. Sterilization shall be performed by a veterinarian licensed
in the state.
   (M)   Annual registration. All potentially vicious animals shall be
registered by the owner with the city within 30 days of notification by the
Chief of Police that the animal has been declared potentially vicious. By the
end of this 30-day period, the owner, keeper or harborer of the animal must be
in compliance with all of the requirements of this section. The annual
registration fee shall initially be established at $100. The registration must
be renewed by January 1 of each subsequent year that the potentially vicious
animal is kept in the city.
   (N)   Failure to comply. It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
harborer of a potentially vicious animal in the city to fail to comply with the
requirements and conditions set forth in this section. Any potentially vicious
animal found to be the subject of a violation of this section shall be subject
to immediate seizure and impoundment. All expenses associated with the
impounding including shelter, food, handling and veterinary care shall be borne
by the owner of such animal during the period of impoundment. Failure to comply
with all the requirements and conditions set forth in this section within 15
days of impoundment will result in the destruction of this animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-17) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.18 RIGHT TO KILL DOG IN DEFENSE OF SELF OR ANOTHER.
   (A)   Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of another
when the dog, without due provocation, bites him, her or another, or attacks or
attempts to bite or attack him, her or another in such manner that an
ordinarily prudent person would believe that the person toward whom the efforts
of the dog are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise physically harmed.
   (B)   This law does not apply to individuals or groups of individuals who
may be trespassing on the property of the dog owner. The right to protect one’s
property remains intact.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-18) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the animal control officer(s) and all
police officers or any person designated for such purpose by the Chief of
Police. The animal control officer shall have full authority to carry out the
provisions of this chapter including gathering up and impounding or
quarantining any livestock, poultry, cats, dogs or other domestic and
nondomestic animals found running at large (stray) within the city limits. In
addition to the authority provided by the general law, and in enforcing this
chapter, officers may pursue animals onto city owned or vacant or privately
owned property.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-19) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.20 ABANDONING OR DUMPING DOMESTIC ANIMALS IN PUBLIC PLACE OR ON PROPERTY
OF ANOTHER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon, dump or otherwise dispose of
a dog, cat or other domesticated animal on public property, including a public
highway, right-of-way, property adjacent to such highway or right-of-way, or on
private property without the written consent of the owner thereof or his or her
agent. When a violation of this section which has been observed by any person,
and the animal illegally abandoned, dumped or disposed or has been ejected or
removed from a motor vehicle, the owner or operator of such motor vehicle shall
be presumed to be the person abandoning, ejecting or disposing of the animal.
Such presumption shall be rebuttable by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-20) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.21 DISPOSITION OF DEAD ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   The owner of any animal which has died from disease or other cause shall
forthwith cremate or bury or dispose of the remains of such animal in a manner
authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-21) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.22 CARE OF ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide for each animal under his or her care
each of the following:
      (1)   Adequate feed;
      (2)   Adequate water;
      (3)   Adequate shelter to allow the animal to remain dry and protected
from the elements;
      (4)   Adequate space in the primary enclosure for the particular type of
animal depending upon its age, size, species and weight;
      (5)   Adequate exercise;
      (6)   Adequate care, treatment and transportation; and
      (7)   Veterinary care when needed or to prevent suffering or disease
transmission.
   (B)   No animal shall be confined within a motor vehicle under such
conditions as may endanger the health or well being of the animal, including,
but not limited to, dangerous temperature or lack of food and water.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-22) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.23 ADEQUATE SHELTER AND SPACE FOR ANIMALS; TIME RESTRICTION ON TETHERING
DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to fail to provide any animal with adequate
shelter. ADEQUATE SHELTER means sufficient space to allow each animal to easily
stand, sit, lie, turn about, and make all other normal body movements in a
comfortable, normal position for the animal and interact safely with other
animals in the enclosure. The shelter shall provide protection from the weather
elements specifically wind, rain, direct sun during times of excessive heat,
extreme cold temperatures and will have clean dry flooring. Any animal exposed
to the elements and without adequate shelter as defined for more than four
hours will be subject to punishment imposed by § 98.25 of this chapter.
   (B)   When a dog is tethered, ADEQUATE SPACE, means a tether that permits
the above actions and is appropriate to the age and size of the dog. The tether
must be attached to the dog by a properly applied collar, halter or harness
configured so as to protect the dog from injury and prevent the dog or the
tether from becoming entangled with other objects or dogs, or from extending
over an object or edge that could result in the strangulation or injury of the
dog.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-23) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.24 AUTHORITY OF POLICE TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ANIMALS KEPT IN CRUEL MANNER.
   (A)   Any animal control officer or police officer may enter the premises
where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner in violation
of §§
98.12, 98.22 or 98.23 of this chapter, and demand to examine the animal and
take possession of the animal when, in his or her opinion, it requires humane
treatment.
   (B)   The animal control officer or police officer shall be authorized to
give owners or custodians warnings or initiate proceedings to have charges
filed against them for cruel and inhumane treatment.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-24) (Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise stated, if found guilty of the offense described in
this chapter, punishment shall be imposed by a fine as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense in a 12-month period, a fine of not less than
$50 and not more than $100;
      (2)   For the second offense in a 12-month period, a fine of not less
than $100 and not more than $250; and
      (3)   For the third and subsequent offense in a 12-month period, a fine
of not less than $250 and not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-25)
   (B)   If found guilty of the offense described in §
98.20, punishment shall be imposed by a fine of not less than $100 and not more
than $250.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-20)
   (C)   If found guilty of the offense described in §
98.22, punishment shall be imposed by a fine of not less than $100 and not more
than $250.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-22)
(Ord. 845, passed 6-16-2015)
CHAPTER 99: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
99.01   Policy
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Unlawful practices
   
99.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
99.05   Discrimination in financing or housing
   
99.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
99.07   Exemption
   
99.08   Administration
   
99.09   Education and conciliation
   
99.10   Enforcement
   
99.11   Investigations, subpoenas, giving of evidence
   
99.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
99.13   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
99.14   Separability of provisions
   
99.15   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the City of Holdenville to provide, within
constitutional limitations, for fair housing throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES. An act that is unlawful under §§
99.04,
99.05 and
99.06 of this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
designed or intended for occupation as a residence by one or more families and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   RENT. To rent includes to lease, to sublease, to let or otherwise to grant
for a consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section and §
99.07 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) of this section;
   (B)   Nothing in §
99.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided that
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further that, in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (B) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24- month period; provided
further that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
the application of this chapter only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman or
of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of any such facilities or
services of any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings or of
any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
99.04(C) of this chapter. However, nothing in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as is necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
99.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
99.03(B) and
99.07 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, disability, familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity or
political activities;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, disability, familial status, sexual orientation, gender
identity or political activities;
   (C)   To make, print or publish or cause to be made, printed or published
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, sex, color, religion, national origin, disability, familial status,
sexual orientation, gender identity or political activities an intention to
make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, disability or familial status, sexual orientation, gender
identity or political activities that any dwelling is not available for
inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is, in fact, so available; and
   (E)   To induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any
dwelling, for profit, by representations regarding the entry or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, sex,
color, religion, national origin, disability, familial status, sexual
orientation, gender identity, or political activities.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.05 DISCRIMINATION IN FINANCING OR HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
financial assistance because of race, sex, color, religion, national origin,
disability, familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or political
activities of such person or of any person associated with him or her in
connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such
loan or other financial assistance or of the present or prospective owners,
lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which
such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given, provided that
nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of
the exception contained in §
99.03(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or
her in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on
account of race, sex, color, religion, national origin, disability, familial
status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or political activities.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-6) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or
controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association or
society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion
or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion
is restricted on account of race, sex, color, national origin, disability,
familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity or political activities.
Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club, not, in fact, open
to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-7) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the chief executive officer of the city.
   (B)   The chief executive officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties and powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties and powers, with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter under this chapter. The
chief executive officer shall, by rule, prescribe such rights of appeal from
the decisions of his or her hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to
other officers in the city, to boards of officers or to himself or herself, as
shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner to
affirmatively further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with the
chief executive officer to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-8) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the chief executive officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the
housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the
provisions of this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it
and shall endeavor, with their advice, to work out programs of voluntary
compliance and of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the chief executive officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the chief executive officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
chief executive officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint or
within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference under division
(C) of this section, the chief executive officer shall investigate the
complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he or she
intends to resolve it. If the chief executive officer decides to try to
eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal
methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion, nothing said or done in the
course of such informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a
subsequent proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the
persons concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) of this section shall be filed within
180 days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and, with the leave of the chief executive officer which
shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend
his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the chief executive
officer, the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. The chief executive officer will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court against the
respondent named in the complaint to enforce the rights granted or protected by
this chapter insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint. If
the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about
to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such practice or
order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceedings brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action by an individual shall come to trial, the chief
executive officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-10) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.11 INVESTIGATIONS, SUBPOENAS, GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the chief executive officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and
other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy
such materials and take and record the testimony or statement of such persons
as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that the chief executive officer first complies with the provisions of
the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The chief
executive officer may issue subpoenas to compel his or her access to or the
production of such materials or the appearance of such persons and may issue
interrogatories to a respondent to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place. The chief executive
officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   (1)   Upon written application to the chief executive officer, a
respondent shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of
subpoenas by and in the name of the chief executive officer to the same extent
and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas issued by the chief executive
officer himself or herself.
      (2)   Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their
face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they were
issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoenas of the chief executive officer shall
be entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in
proceedings in United States district courts. Fee payable to a witness summoned
by a subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him or
her. Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such person
may petition the chief executive officer to revoke or modify the subpoena. The
chief executive officer shall grant the petition if he or she finds that the
subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place,
that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to any matter
under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient particularity
the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous or for
other good reason.
   (D)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the chief
executive officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which
the person to who the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts
business.
   (E)   The city’s Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the chief
executive officer participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-11) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted herein by §§
99.03,
99.04,
99.05 and
99.06 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts
of general jurisdiction.
   (B)   A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the alleged
discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however, that the court
shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
99.10(D) of this chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if the
court believes that the conciliation efforts of the chief executive officer are
likely to result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing
practice complained of in the complaint made to the chief executive officer and
which practice forms the basis for the action in court; and provided, however,
that any sale, encumbrance or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any
court order issued under the authority of this chapter and involving a bona
fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant, without actual notice of the existence
of the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of this
chapter, shall not be affected.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-12) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any
other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by
§§
99.03,
99.04,
99.05 or
99.11 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-13) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.14 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the application
of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-14) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.15 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, disability, familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or
political activities, and because he or she is or has been selling, purchasing,
renting, financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the sale,
purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling or applying for or
participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the business
of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating without discrimination on account of race, sex,
color, religion, national origin, disability, familial status, sexual
orientation, gender identity, or political activities in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) of this
section; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-15) (Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any employee of the chief executive officer who shall make public any
information in violation of §
99.10 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more that $100 or imprisoned not
more than ten days.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-10)
   (C)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the chief executive officer shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned
not more than ten days, or both, and shall violate §
99.11. Any person who, with intent to mislead the chief executive officer,
shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any
report, account, record or other document submitted to the chief executive
officer pursuant to his or her subpoena or other order or shall willfully
neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true and correct entries in
such reports, accounts, records or other documents or shall willfully mutilate,
alter or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence shall be fined not
more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-11)
   (D)   For §
99.12, the court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent or
temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order and may award
to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive damages,
together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of a
prevailing plaintiff, provided that the said plaintiff, in the opinion of the
court, is not financially able to assume said attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-12)
   (E)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, sex, color,
religion, national origin, disability, familial status, sexual orientation,
gender identity, or political activities in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in §
99.15(A) or from participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to so participate shall be fined not more than
$100 or imprisoned not more than ten days, or both; and if bodily injury
results, shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten
days, or both; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any
term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-15)
(Ord. 855, passed 3-7-2017)
CHAPTER 100: CITY CEMETERY
Section
Cemetery Organization
   
100.01   Purchase and regulation
   
100.02   Power to acquire and control land for cemeteries
   
100.03   Conveyance of cemetery lots; abandoned lots
   
100.04   Conveyance or devise of lot in trust
   
100.05   Rules and ordinances
   
100.06   Sexton
   
100.07   Separate department
   
100.08   Board of Cemetery Trustees
   
100.09   Cemetery expenses and collections
   
100.10   Cemetery Care Fund; disposition
   
100.11   Reports of Cemetery Board
   
100.12   Cemetery lot upkeep charges; enforcement
   
100.13   Perpetual Care Fund
   
100.14   Removal of bodily remains; unmarked graves
Cemetery Operation
   
100.25   Application of subchapter
   
100.26   Supervision by caretaker
   
100.27   Nonliability of city
   
100.28   Prices of lots
   
100.29   Grave opening fee
   
100.30   Crematory urns; fee; burial restrictions
   
100.31   Perpetual care
   
100.32   Use of lots
   
100.33   Testate and intestate death of burial plot owner
   
100.34   Burial rules
   
100.35   Outside burial containers
   
100.36   Disinterment
   
100.37   Grave mounds
   
100.38   Planting or removing trees; permission required
   
100.39   Enclosures; monuments; double grave markers
   
100.40   Burial of animals prohibited
   
100.41   Firearms; animals restricted
   
100.42   Disorderly conduct
 
   
100.99   Penalty
CEMETERY ORGANIZATION
§ 100.01 PURCHASE AND REGULATION.
   The City Manager with the City Council and Mayor may purchase, lay out and
regulate cemeteries, including, but not limited to, cemeteries used or
dedicated for interment of animal remains.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-1)
Cross-reference:
   Burial of animals prohibited, see §
100.40
§ 100.02 POWER TO ACQUIRE AND CONTROL LAND FOR CEMETERIES.
   The City Manager with the Mayor and City Council may acquire, by purchase,
donation or otherwise, and control lots or parcels of land within and without
the limits of the city as the Council deems necessary for cemetery purposes.
When lots or parcels are so acquired, the title shall vest in the city. The
city may subdivide or plat any of the lots or lands into suitable parcels for
burial purposes and make such disposition thereof as will in the judgment of
the Council best serve the purpose for which they were acquired. Any lands so
acquired shall thereafter be exempt from taxation, and the Council may pay and
discharge any assessments against the lands for the improvement of streets or
the construction of sewers. The Council shall provide for the grading, fencing,
ornamenting and improving of all burial and cemetery grounds owned by the city
and the avenues leading thereto, and may construct walks and plant and protect
ornamental trees and shrubs therein, and provide for paying the cost thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-2)
§ 100.03 CONVEYANCE OF CEMETERY LOTS; ABANDONED LOTS.
   Empty lots in the cemetery shall be conveyed by a certificate of cemetery
lot conveyance signed by the Mayor with the City Clerk and recorded in the
office of the City Clerk. The certificate shall be signed by the current record
owner of the lot and notarized. If the current record owner is no longer alive,
then the executor or administrator of the estate of the current record owner
may transfer the lot provided that a copy of the letter of administration or
execution is recorded along with the certificate. This certificate shall vest
in the purchaser and his or her heirs a right to the lot or lots for the sole
purpose of interment. All abandoned lots or spaces of lots shall revert to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-3) (Ord. 847, passed 9-1-2015)
§ 100.04 CONVEYANCE OR DEVISE OF LOT IN TRUST.
   Any burial lot in any cemetery owned by a municipality, or by an association
incorporated for cemetery purposes under the laws of the state may be conveyed
or devised by the owner back to and held by such company, municipality or
association in perpetual trust for the purpose of its preservation as a place
of burial. The lot so conveyed shall thereafter remain forever inalienable by
act of the parties, but the right to use the same as a place of burial of the
dead of the family of the owner and his or her descendants from generation to
generation shall remain, unless the deed of conveyance in trust shall provide
that interments in such lot shall be confined to the bodies of specified
persons, in which case the lot shall be forever preserved as the burial place
of the persons specified in the deed and shall never be used for any other
purpose whatever. However, no conveyance in trust shall be made without the
consent of the cemetery company or association in whose cemetery the burial lot
is located, or of the governing body or Board of Cemetery Trustees of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-4)
§ 100.05 RULES AND ORDINANCES.
   The City Council may pass rules and ordinances to regulate, protect and
govern the cemetery, the owners of the lots therein, visitors therein, and to
punish trespassers therein. It may limit the number of lots which may be owned
by one person, corporation or association at the same time, and may prescribe
rules for enclosing, adorning and erecting monuments and tombstones on cemetery
lots; but no religious test shall be made as to the ownership of lots, the
burial therein, or the ornamentation of graves or lots. The Council may
prohibit any division of the use of lots and any improper adornment thereof.
The officers of the city shall have full jurisdiction and power to enforce such
rules and ordinances as if they related to the city itself.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-5)
§ 100.06 SEXTON.
   (A)   Appointment; direction; compensation. The Mayor, subject to the
approval of the City Council, shall appoint a cemetery sexton who shall have
charge and custody of the city cemetery. The sexton shall perform such duties
as may be required of him or her by ordinance and all other duties imposed upon
him or her by the Mayor and Council and shall work under the direction and
receive such compensation as the Mayor and Council may direct.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   It is the duty of the sexton to have actual charge of the cemetery
and to properly keep, preserve and care for the same.
      (2)   He or she shall locate and open all graves.
      (3)   No grave shall be prepared or burial permitted until there be
presented to the sexton a receipt from the City Clerk for the payment of the
lot and the fees for digging the grave. Family members of the deceased may open
a grave for the decedent if they so request. The opening of the grave will be
by hand tools only, under the supervision of the sexton. No fees for digging
the grave will be charged under these circumstances.
      (4)   The sexton shall keep the grass cut and the cemetery as a whole
clear of all weeds, wild and obnoxious growths.
      (5)   He or she shall keep the fence in good repair and maintain all
streets and alleys in good condition.
      (6)   He or she shall take care that all graves are marked and all stones
and monuments kept in proper position.
      (7)   He or she shall keep all trees pruned, disinfected and free from
insects.
      (8)   It is the duty of the sexton to carefully prepare and preserve
complete and adequate records of all burials showing the name of the person
buried, the date of interment, and the lot and block numbers of each grave.
      (9)   He or she shall perform such landscaping and ornamentation as may
be required by the Mayor and Council.
      (10)   He or she shall be at his or her post of duty at all times from 8:
00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., excepting the noon hour, Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays. At such times as necessity or emergency may require, outside of his
or her regular hours, he or she shall be at his or her post of duty and answer
and serve any summons made upon him or her for services in the cemetery.
      (11)   He or she shall perform such other duties as the Mayor and Council
may direct.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-6)
§ 100.07 SEPARATE DEPARTMENT.
   The cemetery shall constitute a separate department of the municipal
government. All revenue arising therefrom shall be applied as required by law
or Council action. The City Clerk shall keep a separate account of such funds
as are paid out and received into the treasury and all warrants drawn against
the fund shall state on their face the fund drawn against and the date for and
for what purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-7)
§ 100.08 BOARD OF CEMETERY TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Membership; terms. A Board of Cemetery Trustees is created. The Board
of Cemetery Trustees shall consist of three members. The term of each member
shall be six years, except that when the Board is first appointed, one member
shall serve a term of two years, one member shall serve a term of four years,
and one member shall serve a term of six years.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Board of Cemetery Trustees shall have charge of
and control of the cemetery, and shall be authorized to:
      (1)   Make rules and regulations governing the management, improvement
and establishment of the cemetery;
      (2)   Fix the price for which lots shall be sold or for which an
interment shall be made; and
      (3)   Appoint all officers necessary for the control and management of
cemeteries, including a cemetery superintendent, subject to the approval of the
City Council and Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-8)
§ 100.09 CEMETERY EXPENSES AND COLLECTIONS.
   All monies received by the Board of Cemetery Trustees from the sale of lots
or from interments, or from any other source, shall be paid to the City Clerk,
who shall deposit the same in the city treasury. Expenses incurred by reason of
the upkeep, repair and adornment of the municipal cemetery may be paid by the
City Clerk upon proper warrants authorized by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-9)
§ 100.10 CEMETERY CARE FUND; DISPOSITION.
   Not less than 25% of all monies received from the sales of lots and
interments shall be segregated and set aside as a permanent fund to be known as
the Cemetery Care Fund. The Cemetery Care Fund shall be expended in purchasing
lands for cemeteries and for making capital improvements when necessary. The
balance of the fund may be invested, without approval of any court, by the City
Council and Mayor in the manner provided by 62 O.S. § 348.1 for investment of
municipal funds. Only the interest from the investments shall be used in
improving, caring for and embellishing the lots, walks, drives, parks and other
necessary improvements on the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-10)
§ 100.11 REPORTS OF CEMETERY BOARD.
   The Board of Cemetery Trustees shall, on the first Monday in January and
July of each year, make a full report to the City Council of all lots sold,
interments made, and all monies received and expended by the Board in and about
the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-11)
§ 100.12 CEMETERY LOT UPKEEP CHARGES; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Lien on unused lot. The city shall have a lien on any unused lot when
a written contract provides for upkeep payments on such lot and the upkeep
payments have been unpaid for a continuous period of five years. Where more
than one lot has been purchased in a group of lots, and at least one of the
lots has been used in that group of lots, the provisions of this section shall
not apply.
   (B)   Enforcement of lien. After filing the lien with the Clerk of the
district court in the county in which the cemetery lot is situated, the lien
may be enforced by civil action. The practice, pleading and proceedings for
foreclosure in such action shall conform to the rules prescribed by the code of
civil procedure as far as they may be applicable.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-12)
§ 100.13 PERPETUAL CARE FUND.
   (A)   Fund created; disposition. Donations, deposits or bequests may be made
in trust for the special care of specified lots, monuments or mausoleums in any
cemetery. These funds shall be segregated and set aside as a permanent fund to
be known as the Perpetual Care Fund. A separate account shall be kept of each
amount so deposited, donated and bequeathed for special care of specified lots.
The Perpetual Care Fund may be invested in like manner as the Cemetery Care
Fund, and only the interest derived from the fund shall be used in the care,
maintenance and repair of such lots, monuments and mausoleums, unless otherwise
specified by the donor.
   (B)   Trustee of Fund; appointment, duties. The city or 25 of the lot owners
in the cemetery, may petition the district court in the county where the
cemetery is situated for the appointment of a trustee to be the trustee of the
Perpetual Care Fund. The trustee of the Fund shall receive the perpetual care
funds, as provided in division (A) of this section, and any other funds which
may be donated, deposited or bequeathed to the cemetery, or any part thereof,
as a Perpetual Care Fund. The trustee shall invest, manage and control the fund
under the direction of the judge of the district court.
   (C)   Receipts; cemetery records. Every trustee of a Perpetual Care Fund
shall execute and deliver to the donor a receipt showing the amount of money
received, and the use to be made of the net proceeds from the money. The
receipts shall be attested by the Clerk of the Court granting letters of
trusteeship and a copy thereof shall be signed by the trustees of the Cemetery
Board. The receipts so attested shall then be filed with and recorded by the
Court Clerk in the book to be known as the “Cemetery Records”, in which shall
be recorded all reports and other papers, including orders made by the court or
the judge relative to cemetery matters.
   (D)   Loans, approval. The Perpetual Care Fund trustee may loan monies
received by him or her under the direction and with the approval of the court,
but only as such loans may be secured by first mortgages upon real estate in
this state. No loan shall be made or approved unless it be made to appear to
the court that the real estate is ample security for the loan applied for, and
that the title to the real estate is good of record and in fact in the party
making application for the loan.
   (E)   Bond and oath of trustee. The trustee of the Perpetual Care Fund,
before entering on the discharge of his or her duties or at any time thereafter
when required by the court or judge, shall give bond in such amount as may be
required by the court, to be approved by the Court Clerk, conditioned for the
faithful discharge of the duties imposed upon the trustee by law. The trustee
shall take and subscribe an oath the same in substance as the condition of the
bond. The oath and bond shall be filed with the Court Clerk.
   (F)   Sufficiency of trustee’s bond. The Court Clerk, at the time of filing
each receipt as provided in division (C) of this section, shall immediately
advise the court or judge as to the amount of the principal fund in the hands
of the trustee, the amount of bond filed, and whether or not the bond is good
and sufficient for the amount given. The court or judge may require, if it
seems best, a new and additional bond of the Perpetual Care Fund trustee.
   (G)   Payment of trustee’s expenses. The trustee of a Perpetual Care Fund
shall not be entitled to receive any compensation for services rendered, but
may, out of the income received, pay all proper items of expense incurred in
the performance of his or her duties, including cost of bond, if any.
   (H)   Trustee reports. Every Perpetual Care Fund trustee shall make a full
report to the district court of his or her doings in the matter of his or her
trusteeship in the months of January and July following his or her appointment,
and in January and July of each successive year. In each of the reports, he or
she shall apportion the net proceeds received from the sum total of the
permanent fund and make proper credit to each of the separate funds assigned to
him or her in trust.
   (I)   Removal or death of trustee. A Perpetual Care Fund trustee may be
removed by the court or judge thereof at any time for cause. In the event of
removal or death, the court or judge must appoint a new trustee and require his
or her predecessor or his or her personal representative to make full
accounting for all the property belonging to the trustee.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-13)
§ 100.14 REMOVAL OF BODILY REMAINS; UNMARKED GRAVES.
   When the bodily remains of an unknown person are discovered in an
unidentified and unmarked grave of the cemetery, the remains may be removed to
some other gravesite within the cemetery, at the expense of the city, if no
record exists as to a sale or conveyance of the lot and the city is without
knowledge that a body had been buried in the gravesite, in the event the lot is
sold to another person. An application for approval of the disinterment and
removal of the bodily remains shall be first filed with, and approval obtained
from, the State Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-14)
CEMETERY OPERATION
§ 100.25 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Each and every part of this subchapter shall apply to the operation and
maintenance of Lewis Addition to the Holdenville Cemetery and shall apply to
the Holdenville Cemetery property, except as to monuments, markers, trees,
shrubbery and plants.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-1)
§ 100.26 SUPERVISION BY CARETAKER.
   The caretaker shall at all times have charge of the cemetery and shall
supervise all workers and shall assist visitors and direct drivers of vehicles.
He or she shall maintain order and expel from the cemetery any person who
violates any part of this subchapter, or who engages in improper conduct.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-2)
§ 100.27 NONLIABILITY OF CITY.
   The city will make every effort to protect property rights in the cemetery
but will not be responsible for loss by fire, storm, tornado, theft or vandals.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-3)
§ 100.28 PRICES OF LOTS.
   (A)   Lot and grave space prices. The price of lots and grave spaces in
Lewis Addition shall be as set by the City Council from time to time by motion
or resolution. A copy of the current schedule shall be on file in the City
Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Payment of purchase price in full. No deed to property purchased will
be delivered until purchase price is paid in full. Any unused ground contracted
for, but not paid for according to agreement, shall revert to the city. All
purchases of burial sites shall be made at the office of the City Clerk and a
record of all property sold and of burials made shall be kept in the City
Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-4)
§ 100.29 GRAVE OPENING FEE.
   The fee for opening a grave shall be $150.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-5) (Ord. 591, passed 5-20-1997)
§ 100.30 CREMATORY URNS; FEE; BURIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Fee.
      (1)   The fee to bury a crematory urn shall be $50.
      (2)   The urn may be buried at the foot of an occupied grave with no
additional charge.
   (B)   Burial depth. The urn must be buried at a depth that will cover the
top of the urn by at least 18 inches.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-6) (Ord. 569, passed 2-2-1993)
Cross-reference:
   Sexton; duties, see §
100.06(B)(3)
§ 100.31 PERPETUAL CARE.
   Perpetual care shall go with all property sold and any work done by
individuals shall be under the supervision of the caretaker.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-7)
§ 100.32 USE OF LOTS.
   (A)   The lots sold shall be used solely for the burial of human dead.
   (B)   Lots sold shall be used by the family purchasing them, their relatives
or descendants, unless special permission is obtained from the owner of such
lot or his or her authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-8)
§ 100.33 TESTATE AND INTESTATE DEATH OF BURIAL PLOT OWNER.
   (A)   When the owner of a burial plot dies intestate, his or her interest
shall descend according to the laws of the state relating to the descent of
realty, except there is no right of representation, and upon such death, proof
of heirship shall be filed with the City Clerk, and no further burial will be
permitted without such sworn proof. No transfer of title shall be valid until
such transfer is filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   The City Clerk is authorized to administer consistent with the state
administrative procedure act the transfer of ownership of cemetery lots in the
city’s cemetery. The administrative rules to be followed are as follows, in
order of priority:
      (1)   Court order determining ownership;
      (2)   Any will admitted to probate takes precedence in the absence of a
court order determining ownership;
      (3)   If the record owner dies intestate, his or her surviving spouse is
the sole owner for life with burial rights, but if the surviving spouse is
deceased, then to surviving children, share and share alike;
      (4)   If no surviving children then to the record owner’s surviving
parent, whether one or more;
      (5)   If no surviving children or parents then to surviving siblings,
share and share alike;
      (6)   If no surviving children, parents, or siblings, then to surviving
first cousins, share and share alike;
      (7)   That there is no right of representation for children of deceased
children, parents, siblings, or first cousins;
      (8)   The determination of ownership shall be determined by the City
Clerk after a ten-day publication notice in a form approved by the City Clerk
and a copy sent to all claimants who could assert a right by representation,
potential claimants, and surviving children, parents and siblings;
      (9)   If no objection is received within 14 days of the publication then
the City Clerk shall transfer ownership to the surviving family member so
entitled.
      (10)   If objection is made, a public hearing shall be conducted within
20 days by the City Clerk prior to an administrative decision following the
guidelines. Notice shall issue to interested persons only.
      (11)   Any party aggrieved shall have 30 days from entrance of the City
Clerk’s order to appeal the matter to the district court of the county.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-9) (Ord. 740, passed 6-1-2010)
§ 100.34 BURIAL RULES.
   (A)   Burials shall be in accordance with the rules and regulations of the
State Board of Health and any ordinance passed by the city.
   (B)   Only one interment shall be permitted in any grave, except in case of
members of the same family buried at the same time.
   (C)   (1)   It is unlawful to install a vault at the city cemetery without
use of an electric dolly. Vault highway delivery vehicles are prohibited from
crossing graves to reach the gravesite.
      (2)   The driver and/or company of the vehicles shall remain on the road.
The driver and/or company of the vehicle is responsible for any damage caused
by his or her vehicle while in the cemetery.
      (3)   The cemetery superintendent is authorized to issue a separate
citation for violation of this division (C) against the driver and/or company
for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-10) (Ord. 623, passed 6-5-2007) Penalty, see §
100.99
Cross-reference:
   Crematory urns; fee; burial restrictions, see §
100.30
§ 100.35 OUTSIDE BURIAL CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Concrete container. All caskets must be interred inside a concrete
outside burial container.
   (B)   Supervision of installation. All concrete outside burial containers
will be installed under the supervision of the caretaker.
   (C)   Metal or wooden containers. Nothing herein shall prohibit the
installation of metal outside burial containers, but wooden outside burial
containers are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-11) (Ord. 557, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 100.36 DISINTERMENT.
   No disinterment shall be made without permission of the lot owner or owners
or by order of civil authorities, and then, only under the direction of the
caretaker of the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-12)
§ 100.37 GRAVE MOUNDS.
   Grave mounds shall not be above the established grade, allowing for
settling, and withered or faded flowers and designs will be removed by the
caretaker when they become unsightly.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-13)
§ 100.38 PLANTING OR REMOVING TREES; PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   No tree, shrubbery or plant shall be planted without permission of the
caretaker, but any tree, shrubbery or plant once planted by permission of the
caretaker shall not be removed except by direction of the caretaker.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-14)
§ 100.39 ENCLOSURES; MONUMENTS; DOUBLE GRAVE MARKERS.
   (A)   Restrictions; specifications. No enclosure of any kind, such as
fencing, coping, curbing or hedging will be permitted around any single grave
space, lot or part of a lot. No monument or marker will be permitted to be
placed on any grave space, lot or parts thereof until such burial ground has
been paid for in full. No wood or inflammable marker shall be allowed in the
cemetery. Family monuments shall be of granite and shall be erected only on
lots or parts of lots having an area of 160 square feet or more and shall be
placed in the center of the east line of the lot. Foundation excavation for
such monuments shall be at least five feet deep and shall be of solid masonry
or concrete, flush with ground level and shall have an apron of solid masonry
of not less than six inches in width around the base of the stone, flush with
ground level. Double grave markers of granite, marble or bronze material may be
erected or placed at the head of the graves, provided proper foundation be
made, but only for husband and wife or for two people buried in the same grave
at the same time.
   (B)   Grave markers.
      (1)   One grave marker, only, may be placed at any other grave, and such
marker shall be placed at the head of the grave. No foot stone marker shall be
permitted. All grave markers shall be of granite, marble or bronze material and
must be set on concrete foundation and the top of such marker shall be flush
with the ground level.
      (2)   No monument or marker of any kind shall be permitted to be set in a
socket or with a dowel.
   (C)   Corner posts. Corner posts must be of granite or marble, flush with
the ground level and must be six inches or more square and extending at least
eight inches into the ground and set on concrete foundation, provided, if
corner posts shall extend into the ground 18 inches or more, no underneath
foundation will be required.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-15)
§ 100.40 BURIAL OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   Absolutely no animals may be buried at the Holdenville Cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-16) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.41 FIREARMS; ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   No firearms will be allowed within the cemetery, except at military
funerals. No livestock, poultry, dogs or pets will be allowed within the
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-17) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.42 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No drinking, gambling, loud or boisterous conversation, or the use of
profane language, or other disorderly conduct shall be engaged in within the
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-18) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
100.25 through
100.42, by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any
act required by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when such
provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which any such violation
continues, shall constitute a separate misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-19)
   (C)   In violating §
100.34(C), the first violation penalty is $50; the second is $100; the third is
$200 during any three-year period.
(Prior Code, § 7-6B-10) (Ord. 623, passed 6-5-2007)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS
      
113.   PEDDLERS
      
114.   ADVERTISING; BILLBOARDS
      
115.   GARAGE AND YARD SALES
      
116.   PRIVATE SECURITY BUSINESSES
      
117.   JUNKYARDS, SALVAGE YARDS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
      
118.   TAXICABS
      
119.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Occupational License Taxes
   
110.01   License tax levied on certain occupations; exemption
   
110.02   Payment of tax; license issuance and term
   
110.03   Separate licenses required
   
110.04   Display of license
   
110.05   License transfer prohibited
   
110.06   Duplicate license; fee
   
110.07   Revocation of license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES
§ 110.01 LICENSE TAX LEVIED ON CERTAIN OCCUPATIONS; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Tax levied; rate schedule on file. A license tax is hereby levied on
every person engaging in, exercising or pursuing any business, profession,
trade, occupation or privilege in the city, in the amounts respectively set by
motion, resolution or ordinance of the City Council. A copy of the current rate
schedule shall be kept in the City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   State sales tax permit; state license. In order to receive a license
under this chapter, every person, firm or corporation regulated pursuant to
this section is required to possess a valid and current state sales tax permit
if such person, firm or corporation is a vendor subject to collection of sales
taxes under the sales tax code of the city and state and any appropriate state
license which may be required to conduct the business or activity. A copy of
this permit or license shall be provided by the applicant for a license to the
City Clerk prior to issuance of the city license.
   (C)   Ex-service persons exempt. Nothing in this chapter or in other
ordinances of the city shall be deemed to require ex-service persons to secure
a license or pay a license fee for engaging in a business, occupation or
privilege when he or she is exempted therefrom by statutes of the state or
other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 110.02 PAYMENT OF TAX; LICENSE ISSUANCE AND TERM.
   (A)   Payment of tax; license issuance.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, exercise or pursue any
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a license tax is
levied by this code or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without
paying the license tax, and securing and possessing a valid license therefor.
      (2)   Upon making proper application to the City Clerk, the payment of
the license tax and fulfillment of any other condition which may be prescribed
by law or ordinance, the City Clerk shall issue a license therefor.
      (3)   Such license taxes shall be credited to the General Fund of the
city.
   (B)   License expiration; proration of fee. Annual licenses shall expire on
June 30 of the year for which they were issued. When an annual license is
issued after July 1 for the remainder of the year to a person just beginning to
engage in, exercise or pursue a business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege, the tax collected shall be a fractional part of the annual tax equal
to the fraction of the year remaining with a minimum of $10.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 110.03 SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   Every person who engages in, exercises, or pursues a business, profession,
trade, occupation or privilege for which a license is required, at or from more
than one place in the city, or who engages in, exercises, or pursues more than
one such business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, shall pay the
fee, and secure a separate license, for each such place or for each such
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 110.04 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Display in place of business or carry. Every holder of a license to
engage in, exercise or pursue a business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege, shall conspicuously display the license at all times in some part of
his or her place of business or activity where a person who has entered the
place may readily see it; or, if he or she has no particular place of business
or activity, shall carry the license and shall display it to any person who
requests to see it.
   (B)   Display on devices or equipment. In lieu of the manner of displaying
such licenses provided above, when licenses are required for coin operated
music or amusement devices, vending machines and similar devices and equipment,
the license may be placed on or attached to such device or equipment in such
position and manner that it will be clearly visible, and shall be so placed or
attached if the license so states on its face.
   (C)   Failure to display unlawful. It is unlawful to fail or refuse to
display the license as required in this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 110.06 DUPLICATE LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   Application for duplicate license. Whenever any license to engage in,
exercise or pursue a business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, has
been lost or destroyed without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder,
the City Clerk, on application, shall issue a duplicate license for the
unexpired time.
   (B)   Affidavit required. Before the duplicate is issued, the holder shall
make, and file with the City Clerk an affidavit that the license has not been
transferred, that it has been lost or destroyed without any wrongful act or
connivance by the holder, and that, if believed lost, he or she has made
diligent search for it and has been unable to find it.
   (C)   Fee. The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the City
Clerk, shall be $2.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued by the city to any person to engage in, exercise, or
pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, may be revoked
by the City Council after adequate opportunity for a hearing, for either of the
following reasons:
   (A)   The licensee is engaging in, exercising, or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege in such a manner that he or she has
created or is creating a public nuisance as defined by state law or local
ordinance; or
   (B)   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who engages in any business, profession, trade or occupation, or
exercises any privilege, for which a license is required by this chapter,
without a valid license as thereby required, or who shall violate any provision
of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Violation of this chapter shall also be
grounds for revocation or suspension of license granted.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Alcoholic Beverages Regulated
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Location restrictions
   
111.04   Certificates of zoning and compliance
   
111.05   Hours for selling alcoholic beverages
   
111.06   Occupational tax levied
Violations
   
111.20   Regulations concerning minors
   
111.21   Transporting alcoholic beverages; open containers; prohibited;
exception
 
   
111.99   Penalty
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES REGULATED
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the city to
preserve the public peace, safety, health, and good order thereof and to aid
the enforcement of the policy of the state as established by the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-1) (Ord. 862, passed 9-18-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Beverages controlled by the Oklahoma Alcoholic
Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission.
      PACKAGE STORE. Any sole proprietor or partnership that qualifies to sell
wine, beer and/or spirits for off-premises consumption and that is not a
grocery store, convenience store or drug store, or other retail outlet that is
not permitted to sell wine or beer for off-premises consumption.
      RETAILER. A package store, grocery store, convenience store or drug store
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption pursuant to a
retail spirits license, retail wine license or retail beer license.
      STATE LICENSEE. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation or association
who holds a license issued by the authority of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act, being 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
      WHOLESALE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE STORE. A store operated under the authority
of a state wholesaler’s license.
      WINERY. A manufacturing establishment operated under the authority of a
state winemaker’s license.
   (B)   The following specific terms are given the meanings defined for them
in 37A O.S. § 1-103:
      (1)   ABLE Commission;
      (2)   Alcohol;
      (3)   Beer;
      (4)   Beer distributor;
      (5)   Bottle club;
      (6)   Brewer;
      (7)   Brewpub;
      (8)   Cider;
      (9)   Convenience store;
      (10)   Distiller;
      (11)   Drug store;
      (12)   Grocery store;
      (13)   Hotel or motel;
      (14)   Licensee;
      (15)   Manufacturer;
      (16)   Mixed beverages;
      (17)   Original package;
      (18)   Person;
      (19)   Premises;
      (20)   Rectifier;
      (21)   Retail salesperson;
      (22)   Sale;
      (23)   Special event;
      (24)   Spirits;
      (25)   Wholesaler;
      (26)   Wine; and
      (27)   Winemaker.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-2) (Ord. 862, passed 9-18-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
§ 111.03 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with zoning regulations. No establishment selling alcoholic
beverages shall be located, maintained or operated by any person, at any place
within the boundaries of the city except at a location at which such
establishment is permitted by the zoning ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Compliance with state law. No person shall own, operate, maintain or
be interested in any establishment selling alcoholic beverages which is
forbidden as a location for such store by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-3) (Ord. 862, passed 9-18-2018, eff. 10-1-2018) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.04 CERTIFICATES OF ZONING AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Application; investigation.
      (1)   Every ABLE licensee requiring a certificate of compliance and a
certificate of zoning required by 37A O.S. shall apply at the office of the
City Clerk by:
         (a)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
         (b)   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount of $75
at the time of filing.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for the certificates, the City Clerk
shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the premises
proposed for licensed operation complies with the provisions of the zoning
ordinance and any health, fire, building and other safety codes applicable to
it.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall act on all such applications within 20 days of
receipt thereof.
   (B)   Issuance.
      (1)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning
shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
      (2)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable fire, safety and health codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
      (3)   The above certificates of compliance shall be signed by the Mayor
or by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-4) (Ord. 862, passed 9-18-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
§ 111.05 HOURS FOR SELLING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Retail stores. A retailer who sells wine, spirits or beer may offer
wine or beer for retail sale between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight.
The days on which such sales are allowed are determined by the county.
   (B)   Establishments selling alcohol for consumption on premises. A business
selling alcoholic beverages for the purpose of consumption on premises shall
only sell alcoholic beverages between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. The
days on which such sales are allowed are determined by the county.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-5) (Ord. 862, passed 9-18-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
§ 111.06 OCCUPATIONAL TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   Tax levied; rates. There is hereby levied an annual occupation tax for
the privilege of operating within the city as a retailer, mixed beverage, beer
and wine, caterer or special event licensee, bottle club, manufacturer,
wholesaler or Class B wholesaler, as such occupations are defined in 37A O.S. §
1-103. The occupations covered hereby and the rate of the tax levied hereby
shall be 50% of the license fees set forth in 37A O.S. § 2-101. As the license
fees set forth in said statute change, so shall the occupation tax imposed by
this section for such occupations.
   (B)   Exceptions. The exceptions of 37A O.S. § 4-104 are further adopted and
incorporated herein, so that the tax shall be levied only if the licensee has
its principal place of business within the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-6) (Ord. 864, passed 10-2-2018)
VIOLATIONS
§ 111.20 REGULATIONS CONCERNING MINORS.
   (A)   Furnishing to minors. It is unlawful within the limits of the city for
any person to sell, barter, furnish or give to any minor any low point beer or
alcoholic beverage. A parent as regards his or her own child or children is
excepted from the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Minors loitering.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or
maintaining a place of business where low point beer is sold for consumption on
the premises, or any person in charge thereof, to permit any person under 21
years of age to be or remain in or around such place of business.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to be or remain
in or around such place of business.
   (C)   Possession in public. It is unlawful for any minor to be in possession
of any low point beer while such person is upon any public street, road or
highway, or in any public building or place whether within the city limits or
on municipal property outside city limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-3B-1) (Ord. 862, passed 9-18-2018, eff. 10-1-2018) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.21 TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; OPEN CONTAINERS; PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTION.
   No person within the city shall transport in any vehicle upon any public
highway, street, alley or other public way any alcoholic beverage unless such
alcoholic beverage is:
   (A)   In an unopened original container with the seal unbroken and the
original cap or cork not removed from the container; and
   (B)   In the trunk or other closed compartment or other container, out of
public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 3-3B-2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of any provision contained in §
111.20 and 111.21 is an offense against the city; upon conviction of any such
offense, the violator shall be punished as provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances or by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-3B-2) (Ord. 862, passed 9-18-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Coin operated amusement devices
   
112.02   License tax for amusements, circuses, tent shows
Pool Halls
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   Application for license; conditions; issuance
   
112.17   Premises requirements
   
112.18   Prohibited acts
   
112.19   Hours of operation
   
112.20   Revocation of license
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   Hours for use. Any coin operated amusement device, including pool and
billiard tables, operated in conjunction with any place of business, may
lawfully be operated and remain open for play during all hours that the place
of business in which such device is located may lawfully remain open for
business.
   (B)   License for each device. The presence of such coin operated amusement
devices shall not require any other license because of their presence as long
as they are incidental to the operation of such business and there is a valid
coin operated amusement device license for each such device.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1)
§ 112.02 LICENSE TAX FOR AMUSEMENTS, CIRCUSES, TENT SHOWS.
   A license tax is hereby levied on the following amusements in the amounts
respectively indicated:
 
Event                                                     Period   License Tax
Circus or menagerie, each (provided that the payment of
such license fee shall entitle the holder thereof to      Per day  $50
parade upon the streets of the city in the day covered by
the license)
Carnivals, including all concessions                      Per week $200
Circus parade, where no license for show is paid          Per day  $50
Street fairs                                              Same as for carnivals
Tent shows                                                Per day  $25
                                                         Per week $50
 
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2)
POOL HALLS
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate or conduct any public pool or
billiard hall, room or table in the city without having first obtained a
license or permit from the city as hereinafter provided and having paid the
license fee to the city therefor as provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONDITIONS; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Application. Any person desiring to operate or conduct a public pool
or billiard hall, room or table in the city may make application in writing to
the Mayor and City Council, verified by oath of the applicant, and file the
same with the City Clerk. The application shall be in the form and contain the
facts as stated in this subchapter.
   (B)   Qualifications of applicant. An applicant shall be a person of good
moral character.
   (C)   Conditions. The applicant shall state in writing that he or she will
strictly obey all laws of the state and all provisions and regulations of the
city relating to the conduct or operation of public pool or billiard houses or
halls of the city; that he or she will permit no violations of the provisions
of this chapter in such pool or billiard hall or place, and at all times will
conduct an orderly and lawful business as herein provided.
   (D)   License issuance. Upon approval of application by the City Council,
the license shall be issued by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2)
§ 112.17 PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   A building or room occupied or used as a public pool or billiard room or
hall, or a building in which pool or billiard halls may be conducted or
operated shall have unobstructed fronts with no blinds, shades, stain or paint
thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3)
§ 112.18 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Minors prohibited; liquor related acts. It is unlawful for any person
under the age of 21 years to be found in any pool or billiard hall serving “low
point beer” or for any person to be in the room or hall while intoxicated or to
have intoxicating liquor, or to drink any kind of liquor in such pool or
billiard hall.
   (B)   Profane, loud language. It is unlawful to permit the use of vulgar,
profane, loud or boisterous language in any such place.
   (C)   Gambling. No betting or gambling shall be permitted or allowed.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.19 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is unlawful for any pool or billiard hall which serves “low point beer”
to open for business before 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 midnight or to operate on
Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-5)
§ 112.20 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may, upon a
second conviction, forfeit his or her permit issued hereunder, following notice
and opportunity for hearing within ten days of such notice. No license shall
ever thereafter be issued to such person to conduct such pool or billiard hall
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-6)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Sales from stand or vehicle; license requirements
   
113.03   License tax levy
   
113.04   Persons exempt
   
113.05   Permission of resident required
   
113.06   Selling on public ways prohibited
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who sells or offers for sale any goods, wares and
merchandise from any stand, shelf, table, box or other contrivance or from any
parked vehicle of any kind or who shall go from place to place for the purpose
of selling same.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1)
§ 113.02 SALES FROM STAND OR VEHICLE; LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Vending time limit. At any place, other than where peddling is
prohibited, it is unlawful and an offense for any person, in the peddling of
any goods, wares and merchandise, to set up a stand or other contrivance or to
park a vehicle of any kind for a longer period of time than 30 minutes when the
purpose is the vending of goods, wares and merchandise.
   (B)   License for stand or vehicle; conditions. The owner or lessee of any
lot not within the restricted area who desires to build thereon any stand or
other contrivance or park any vehicle for the purpose of vending any goods,
wares and merchandise, shall first procure a license as herein required. Such
license shall be issued only after conclusive proof that none of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Traffic will not be impaired in any way;
      (2)   The structure shall not be unsightly and unsanitary;
      (3)   The establishment or its operation shall not be a nuisance to the
immediate neighborhood or the public generally;
      (4)   The premises shall be kept clean and sanitary; and
      (5)   No trade shall be solicited by means of any loud noises or voices
which would be a nuisance to the neighborhood.
   (C)   Issuance of license. The license shall be issued in all cases with an
expressed proviso to the effect that Code Enforcement in the exercise of his or
her discretion shall revoke such license upon the violation of any of the above
or any other conditions which are against the public health, peace or safety.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-2)
§ 113.03 LICENSE TAX LEVY.
   (A)   Taxes levied. There is hereby assessed and levied a license tax on
each and every peddler who shall engage in the occupation of peddling within
the city, the amount of which is as follows, respectively:
 
Service                                                     Period  License Tax
Peddlers of secondhand automobiles                          Per day $10
Peddlers, selling or distributing any goods, wares and
merchandise in carload lots or fractional parts thereof, at Per day $5
wholesale or retail, from car, per car
Peddlers with vehicles, other than meat, except as herein   Per day $5
provided
Peddlers without vehicles, except as otherwise provided     Per day $3
Traveling photographers and vendors of pictures             Per day $10
 
   (B)   Compliance with regulations. All licenses issued for peddlers shall be
subject to the provisions of this chapter and shall not be construed to permit
any peddling contrary to any expressed provision of any ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-3)
§ 113.04 PERSONS EXEMPT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any person from selling any goods,
wares and merchandise, defined by law as fructus naturales, when the same is
produced by his or her own labor or skill or that of his or her family. All
such persons shall comply with all provisions regulating the sale of such
produce or products and shall not be required to pay any license tax. The term
FRUCTUS NATURALES, for the purpose of this section, shall also include poultry,
eggs and other produce, in addition to all products which are grown on and
severed from the soil.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-4)
§ 113.05 PERMISSION OF RESIDENT REQUIRED.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences, or of telephoning to
private residences in the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant
merchants and transient vendors of merchandise not having been requested or
invited so to do by the owners or occupants of the private residences, for the
purposes of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, or
for the purposes of disposing of, and peddling or hawking the same, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance, and punishable as such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-5)
§ 113.06 SELLING ON PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to sell or offer for sale,
barter or exchange any goods, wares and merchandise, along and upon any
streets, avenues and alleys in the city within the fire limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-6) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall peddle or attempt to peddle any goods, wares and
merchandise contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall commit an offense
and, upon conviction, shall be punished accordingly. Provided that each act of
sale or offer to sell contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-7)
CHAPTER 114: ADVERTISING; BILLBOARDS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required; fee; term
   
114.03   Consent of owner for posting
   
114.04   Billboard requirements
   
114.05   Removal of billboards
   
114.06   Glue and waste paper
   
114.07   Defacing bill or poster
   
114.08   Manner of distributing
   
114.09   Advertisements of immoral character
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLBOARD. A surface or place prepared, built and established or used for
the purpose of posting or painting of advertising matter.
   BILLPOSTER.
      (1)   Includes all persons:
         (a)   Engaged in the business of or occupation of posting by tacking,
pasting, posting, printing by paint, any advertising matter on boards, walls,
posts, poles or other structures;
         (b)   Engaged in circulating and distributing or throwing advertising
matter upon the private premises or the streets or alleys of the city; and
         (c)   Throwing, leaving or placing any samples, bills, posters,
pictures or any other thing made or devised for the purpose of advertising the
business of any person.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to the
painting of a store, office or other sign by sign painters when the painting of
such sign is done on the premises used, occupied or owned by the person
authorizing the painting of such sign. Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to apply to the posting of legal notices by public officers or
attorneys in the manner and in the places prescribed by law, nor to the
distribution of handbills or posters by local merchants or other local
enterprises; provided, such distribution is in strict accordance with the city
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-1)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; TERM.
   (A)   Required; fee. Before any person engaging in the billposting or
distributing business in the city shall be permitted to conduct such business
in the city, he or she shall obtain from the City Clerk a license therefor, for
which he or she shall pay to the City Clerk the sum of $0.01 per square foot of
area, outside dimensions.
   (B)   Term of license. Any license so issued shall be for one year or the
year or part thereof expiring on June 30 next following the date of issue.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-2)
§ 114.03 CONSENT OF OWNER FOR POSTING.
   (A)   No billposter or other person shall post, or in any manner put any
written or printed bill, notice or advertisement upon any gas, telephone or
other post or pole or public building within the city or upon any private
building or fence within the city, or in or on any auto or other vehicle
without first having obtained the consent of the owner or lessee thereof.
   (B)   Any billposter or other person violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 BILLBOARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All billboards wherever erected in the city shall be built of
galvanized iron and shall not exceed 15 feet in height from the ground when
built independent of any building.
   (B)   Posts shall not be less than four inches by four inches and shall not
be set more than seven feet apart and shall be planted to a depth of at least
four feet.
   (C)   All billboards shall be firmly braced in the rear.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-4)
§ 114.05 REMOVAL OF BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   City authority. All billboards erected and maintained by licensed
billposters shall be under the supervision and control of the Mayor and City
Council and shall be removed whenever the Mayor and Council shall so direct.
   (B)   Failure to remove. Any billposter having erected or maintained such
billboard who shall fail to remove the same within 24 hours after having been
directed to do so by the Mayor and Chief of Police shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.06 GLUE AND WASTE PAPER.
   (A)   No billposter shall scatter, daub or leave any paste, glue or other
like substance used for affixing bills upon the public sidewalk or pavement nor
scatter or throw any old bills or waste material removed from any billboard on
the surface of any street or way, nor on the surface of any private ground.
   (B)   Whenever any papers or bills shall become loose from any billboard,
the papers or bills or posters shall be taken to some convenient place and
immediately be destroyed by the owner or operator of such billboard.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-6)
§ 114.07 DEFACING BILL OR POSTER.
   Any person who shall willfully deface or destroy any bill or poster, posted
by a licensed billposter upon any place where such billposter shall have the
right to place the same within the city, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.08 MANNER OF DISTRIBUTING.
   It is unlawful for any person engaged in distributing bills or posters
within the meaning of this chapter to do the same in such a manner that they
will be blown about the streets.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.09 ADVERTISEMENTS OF IMMORAL CHARACTER.
   No billposter or other person shall post or affix so that the same can be
seen from any street, public ground or public way, a bill or advertisement
containing pictures, illustrations or printed matter of any obscene or immoral
character.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: GARAGE AND YARD SALES
Section
   
115.01   Registration fee; time limitation
   
115.02   Requirements and restrictions
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 REGISTRATION FEE; TIME LIMITATION.
   There is hereby levied and assessed a registration fee of $5 per each
conducted sale, which said sale or offering shall not exceed three successive
days in length. Said registration shall be acquired in advance of each sale.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-1) (Ord. 580, passed 11-1-1994, eff. 11-1-1994)
§ 115.02 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Days for holding sales. All such sales shall be conducted only on
Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays.
   (B)   Number of sales limited. No person or group of persons shall conduct
more than four such sales in any one calendar year.
   (C)   Storage of products for sale. All products held overnight shall be
stored in an enclosed building, out of sight from any point off the premises.
The same applies after the time of sale has elapsed.
   (D)   Recovery of advertising. All advertising placed at various points in
the city shall be recovered within 24 hours after the sale is completed.
Failure to do so is a littering violation.
   (E)   Parking arrangements. Any person or group of persons conducting such
sale shall make arrangements for the parking of vehicles of prospective
customers so as not to obstruct the flow of traffic on adjoining streets and so
as not to obscure vision at intersections.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-2) (Ord. 580, passed 11-1-1994, eff. 11-1-1994) Penalty, see
§
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to comply with any one or more of the foregoing regulations shall be
deemed an offense and punishable by a fine not to exceed $50 for each or all
infractions.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-3) (Ord. 580, passed 11-1-1994, eff. 11-1-1994)
CHAPTER 116: PRIVATE SECURITY BUSINESSES
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Permit and license required
   
116.03   Exemptions
   
116.04   Application for licenses and permits; fees
   
116.05   Investigation; ineligibility
   
116.06   Insurance requirements
   
116.07   Action on application
   
116.08   Expiration and renewal of license or permit
   
116.09   Security officer and vehicle requirements
   
116.10   Service restricted to authorized area
   
116.11   Authority to arrest
   
116.12   Firearms permits
   
116.13   Nonliability of city
   
116.14   Rules and regulations; annual orientations
   
116.15   Suspension or revocation of license; hearing
   
116.16   Notice and conduct of hearings
   
116.17   Appeals
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSE. The authority given to a corporation, unincorporated association,
partnership or sole proprietorship to engage in the security guard business.
   OWNER. Any officer, owner, manager or other person who shall receive any
percentage of profits directly from the operation of the security company or
anyone who directs any policy of the company.
   PERMIT. The authority given to an individual for the purpose of acting as a
registered security officer and carrying a weapon.
   PERSON. Any individual, sole proprietorship, firm, partnership, joint
venture, association, corporation or combination thereof.
   PRIVATELY REGISTERED SECURITY OFFICER. Any individual permitted by the city
to provide patrol, guard, watchman or depository services for a licensed
security company, or any individual permitted by the city to provide these same
services for one business only and who is authorized to carry firearms under
the provisions of this chapter.
   SECURITY COMPANY. Any corporation, unincorporated association, partnership
or sole proprietorship offering any services as an independent contractor and
employing private security officers who are licensed under the provisions of
this chapter.
   SECURITY SERVICES. The service performed by a security officer or company
for the purpose of protecting life or property from harm or theft. The use of
mechanical devices or animals for such purposes shall not in itself constitute
security service for the purpose of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-1) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.02 PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Requirement. No person shall operate as a private security officer or
engage in business as a private security officer without having first obtained
a license or permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Issuance. The city shall grant permits to private security officers
and licenses to private security companies who comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-2) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Any individual who is regularly employed and certified by the state as a
sworn peace officer in the state is exempt from the permit provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-3) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSES AND PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Business. Any person or security company intending to engage in,
establish or conduct business as a private security service shall file a
written application for a license with the city.
      (2)   Security guard. Any person intending to act as a security guard
shall be employed by one business or by a licensed security guard company and
must present an affidavit reflecting his or her employment.
      (3)   Form of application; accompanying documents. Application shall be
made upon a form prepared and made available by the city. If application is
made for a permit, the form must be accompanied by a full set of applicant’s
fingerprints and a recent photograph. If application is made for a license, the
form must be accompanied by a full set of fingerprints and a recent photograph
of the company owner.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Fees will be charged in the following amounts:
         (a)   For the first year permit, the fee shall be $100. For each year
thereafter, where a permit is obtained consecutively, the fee shall be $20.
         (b)   For the first year company license, the fee shall be $500. For
each year thereafter, where a permit is obtained consecutively, the fee shall
be $150.
      (2)   Failure to obtain a license or permit for any year after the first
year will cause the first year fee to be reassessed.
   (C)   Required information. The application for license or permit shall
contain such information as the city deems necessary to reach a fair
determination of the applicant’s qualifications, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The full name, age, date, of birth, residence, telephone numbers
and present and previous employment record of the applicant;
      (2)   Citizenship of the applicant;
      (3)   A specific description of the location of the principal place of
business of the applicant;
      (4)   Number of years’ experience applicant has had as a private
detective, law enforcement officer, civilian or military, or in related fields;
      (5)   Length of time applicant has been a bona fide resident of the state
and the city immediately preceding the filing of the application;
      (6)   Type of license or permit desired;
      (7)   Summary of military service, including dates thereof and whether or
not applicant was honorably discharged;
      (8)   Arrests, convictions and pending criminal charges for all felonies
and misdemeanors;
      (9)   Place of birth;
      (10)   Affidavits from at least three persons who have personally known
the applicant for a period of at least three years prior to the filing of such
application, as to the moral character of applicant, provided such persons be
unrelated to the applicant by blood or marriage;
      (11)   If a permit is desired, an affidavit from a company or business
employing the individual; and
      (12)   If a license is desired, affidavits of employment from two
potential clients and a list of all employees must be attached.
   (D)   Verification of application.
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall be signed,
filed and verified by such individual.
      (2)   If the applicant is a security company, the application shall be
signed, filed and verified by the president and secretary thereof, and shall
specify the name of the corporation, date and place of its incorporation, the
location of its principal place of business, and shall be accompanied by its
certificate of incorporation.
   (E)   Misrepresentation. Any misrepresentation on the part of the applicant
in obtaining or keeping a license or permit shall result in revocation of the
license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-4) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.05 INVESTIGATION; INELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Background investigation. Prior to the issuance of a license or
permit, the city through its Police Department shall conduct a complete
background inquiry of the applicant; and the applicant shall be personally
interviewed by the Chief of Police or his or her representative and the
applicant’s photograph and fingerprints shall be obtained.
   (B)   Reasons for refusal. The city shall refuse licenses and/or permits to
all persons who have been convicted of a felony under the laws of the state or
of any other state of the United States or the federal government or any
offense involving moral turpitude, and to all minors, drug addicts,
unnaturalized foreign born persons, and such other persons as he or she has
reasonable cause to believe are not of sound mind, or for commission of an act
which, if committed while a license or permit were permitted, would result in
revocation or suspension of the license or permit.
   (C)   Proving qualifications. The burden of proving the applicant’s
qualification for a license or permit shall be upon the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-5) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.06 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Individual bond. Prior to the issuance of a permit, each individual
shall file with his or her application a certificate of general liability
insurance in the amount of $10,000, written by a duly qualified insurance
company licensed to do business in the state.
   (B)   Blanket coverage. Prior to the issuance of a license, each company
applicant may file a certificate of insurance in the amount of $100,000 in lieu
of the individual insurance of its employees.
   (C)   Annual renewal of insurance. The bond or certificate of insurance
shall be renewed and filed annually with the application for renewal of the
license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-6) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.07 ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   Private officer. If the city, subject to the requirements of this
chapter, finds the applicant eligible for a permit, the applicant shall be
appointed as a private officer to serve in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Security company. If the city finds the security company eligible for
a license, the applicant shall be so licensed in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   Time limit for action. The city shall act on all applications, within
20 business days from the time of the filing of the applications.
   (D)   Temporary permit. Pending action by the city on applications, a
temporary permit may be issued in a case where the delay in granting a permit
would cause great and undue hardship on the applicant or employer.
   (E)   Carrying firearms. If the officer has not passed the firearms test, he
or she shall not be permitted to carry a firearm, and the license or permit
shall state whether the officer is permitted to carry firearms or not.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-7) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.08 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   All permits and licenses under this chapter shall expire on June 30 of
each year.
   (B)   Termination of employment as a security guard for a period of more
than 30 days shall result in expiration of the permit.
   (C)   All employers of security guards must give the city notice within ten
days of the termination of employment of any security guard.
   (D)   Individuals operating under a permit who become re-employed during the
30-day period must submit an affidavit of employment from the new employer.
   (E)   Bankruptcy of a security company shall result in forfeiture of its
license.
   (F)   Licenses and permits may be renewed upon yearly re-application.
   (G)   Licenses and permits shall not be transferable.
   (H)   The application for renewal of licenses or permits not authorizing the
carrying of firearms need not be reprocessed if filed with the city 15 days
prior to expiration of the current license, but other applications shall be
reprocessed.
   (I)   Any person whose license or permit has been revoked shall not be
eligible for a new license or permit under this chapter for a period of one
year from the date of such revocation.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-8) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.09 SECURITY OFFICER AND VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Badge and uniform; carry permit.
      (1)   A duly appointed private officer when on duty shall carry his or
her permit and other emblems of authority as approved by the city.
      (2)   Uniforms worn by guards shall be clearly distinctive and different
from those of the police officers and the county sheriff’s department deputies,
and must clearly designate the officer as a “private officer”, “security
officer” or “security service”.
   (B)   Vehicle requirements.
      (1)   Vehicles used for the purpose of conducting security guard business
must be listed upon the license or permit application.
      (2)   Vehicles must be clearly marked and designate the vehicle as a
“security company” or “security service” vehicle.
      (3)   No patrol service vehicles shall use the word “police” in its
markings. Also, vehicles must be clearly distinctive and different from city
police vehicles and County Sheriff’s Department vehicles.
      (4)   All vehicles used by a security company must bear Oklahoma license
tags and inspection stickers.
      (5)   Proof of liability insurance coverage shall be included in each
license application.
      (6)   Such vehicles shall not be given emergency vehicle privileges and
immunities.
   (C)   Display of license.
      (1)   Licenses shall be prominently displayed in the security company’s
main place of operation.
      (2)   Failure to post the license within 72 hours of issuance or posting
it in any other location shall result in revocation of the license.
   (D)   License property of city. The license and permit issued by the city
remains the property of the city and shall be surrendered to the city
immediately upon suspension, revocation or termination of the license or
permit.
   (E)   Altering license or permit. Licenses and permits shall not be erased,
altered or obliterated.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-9) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.10 SERVICE RESTRICTED TO AUTHORIZED AREA.
   Duly licensed private officers or private security companies shall at all
times service only the place or specifically defined geographical area where
they are authorized to serve under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-10) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.11 AUTHORITY TO ARREST.
   Duly licensed private officers are not members of the Police Department and
shall not have the authority of a police officer. They shall, while on duty at
their assigned place, have the right to make arrests only as a private citizen
is granted authority by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-11) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.12 FIREARMS PERMITS.
   (A)   Initially no right to carry firearms. All private security officers
shall be initially without the right to carry a firearm.
   (B)   Conditions for granting permit. Only licensed uniformed private
security officers shall be granted a permit to carry firearms under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The successful completion of a firearms familiarization course
conducted by the Police Department;
      (2)   The successful demonstration of his or her ability to handle
firearms as determined by the Chief of Police;
      (3)   Annual qualification in the specific weapon authorized to be
carried; and
      (4)   Payment of a reasonable qualification fee set by the city.
   (C)   Limitations of permit. The permit shall be limited to pistols and
revolvers.
   (D)   Violation; revocation of permit. Violations of any provision of this
section shall result in revocation of the gun carrying permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-12) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.13 NONLIABILITY OF CITY.
   Any licensed or permitted private officer, while in the performance of his
or her duties as a private officer, shall not be or be deemed to be an agent,
servant or employee of the city; and the city shall not be liable for his or
her actions to third parties or for any injury or damage he or she might
suffer.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-13) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.14 RULES AND REGULATIONS; ANNUAL ORIENTATIONS.
   (A)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   The city shall promulgate and publish additional rules and
regulations consistent with this chapter and as may be necessary to its
implementation.
      (2)   Copies shall be furnished applicants upon request.
   (B)   Orientation sessions. The city may require all licensed security
officers to attend yearly orientation sessions, to be conducted by the Police
Department, and assess a reasonable tuition fee therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-14) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.15 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING.
   (A)   Causes for suspension or revocation. The permit of any private
security officer or the license of any private security company may be
suspended or revoked at any time for:
      (1)   Violation of any of the requirements necessary for a license or
permit;
      (2)   Violation of any rule or regulation established pursuant to this
chapter;
      (3)   Committing any act while the license or permit was not in effect
which would have been cause for the revocation or denial of a license or
permit; or
      (4)   Conviction of a felony or for conviction of a misdemeanor if the
conviction reflects unfavorably on the ability of a person to engage in
security company work.
   (B)   Hearing. Upon occurrence of a violation, a revocation or suspension
hearing will be conducted by a three-member board consisting of: the Chief of
Police or representative, the Mayor or representative, and the city attorney.
The city shall give the private security officer or private security company
notice of any suspension or revocation hearing at least five days prior to the
date of public hearing, and such notice shall be furnished by mail.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-15) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.16 NOTICE AND CONDUCT OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of the hearing prescribed in §
116.15 of this chapter shall include the location to be arranged by the city.
   (B)   Evidence. Evidence may be presented by any party.
   (C)   Decision of Board. Upon conclusion of the evidence, the hearing board
may vote to suspend, revoke or terminate the license or permit, or to dismiss
the complaint.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-16) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
§ 116.17 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal to Council. Appeal from the action of the hearing board in the
event of a revocation or suspension may be taken by the aggrieved person to the
City Council.
   (B)   Notice. Notice of appeal shall be filed by the aggrieved person with
the City Clerk within 15 days of the notice of denial, suspension or revocation
of a license or permit.
   (C)   Conduct of hearing.
      (1)   Upon receipt of such notice of appeal, the City Council shall,
within a reasonable time thereafter, hold a public hearing on the appeal.
      (2)   The appellant, or any interested party, may present any evidence
which is relevant and material, and the Chief of Police or his or her
representative may also be permitted to present evidence which is relevant and
material.
   (D)   Council action. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council
shall affirm, modify or reverse the action taken by the hearing board.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-17) (Ord. 554, passed 6-18-1985)
CHAPTER 117: JUNKYARDS, SALVAGE YARDS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
Section
   
117.01   Automobile salvage shops
   
117.02   Junkyards and salvage yards
   
117.03   Secondhand dealers
§ 117.01 AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE SHOPS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE SHOP. A place where motor vehicles of any and all
kinds, or parts thereof, are brought for the purpose of wrecking, disassembling
and salvaging the parts taken therefrom for the purpose of resale as secondhand
parts.
   (B)   Compliance with provisions. It is an offense for any person to own,
maintain or operate for himself or herself or for another any automobile
salvage shop except as herein provided.
   (C)   Operation requirements.
      (1)   Fence or wall. No person shall maintain, operate for himself or
herself or for another any automobile salvage shop at any place within the city
except in a building or on a lot or lots which are wholly surrounded by at
least a seven foot fence (non-see-through) or wall.
      (2)   Vehicles prohibited on street. It is unlawful for any person
engaged in the operation of any automobile salvage shop to permit any vehicle
which has been acquired for the purpose of wrecking the same to remain on the
street or alley adjoining his or her premises, or any parts taken from the
same.
   (D)   License fee. Each automobile salvage shop shall pay a license fee in
the amount of $100 per year.
   (E)   Register of vehicles and owners.
      (1)   Required. It is the duty of the owner or operator of each and every
automobile salvage shop to keep a register in which he or she shall enter the
name of each person who sells or delivers to him or her any motor vehicle or
any part thereof, together with the date, vendor’s residence and street
address, the automobile license number assigned by the state, and the style,
brand, make and model of each vehicle.
      (2)   Open to inspection. The register herein required shall be at all
times subject to the inspection by the police authorities without notice, and
any inaccuracies or incomplete or fraudulent entries as herein required shall
be sufficient grounds to revoke the license required for same.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.02 JUNKYARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      JUNKYARD or SALVAGE YARD. Any place where scrap iron, other metal or any
material is salvaged, traded for, bought or acquired for the purpose of resale.
   (B)   Prohibited in residential district. No junkyard or salvage yard shall
be permitted in the residential district of the city. For the purpose of this
section, a RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT is any block in which is located three or more
houses or buildings erected for residential purposes.
   (C)   Fence or wall. Where permitted, the operator of any junkyard or
salvage yard shall build a substantial fence (non-see-through) or wall entirely
around the premises out of new materials, the same to be in a good and safe
condition and not less than seven feet high.
   (D)   License fee; register required. Each junk or salvage yard operator
shall pay an annual license tax of $50 per year and maintain a register of all
properties or parts of properties which are received by him or her, showing
from whom acquired, the date and the nature of such substance, and the weight.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-2)
§ 117.03 SECONDHAND DEALERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person engaged in buying, or receiving, any
secondhand goods, wares and merchandise for the purpose of selling the same.
      SECONDHAND GOODS. Includes any and all goods which have been used however
slightly or have been sold by a regular established merchant and are now
offered for sale by any person engaged in a merchandising business and who
carries in his or her stock of merchandise goods of the same character for sale
out of the stock.
   (B)   Register of goods.
      (1)   Required. It is the duty of each and every secondhand dealer to
keep a register of all goods and wares and merchandise which he or she buys or
receives from any source except a regular established merchant and to enter
into the secondhand register, the date, the items, and the person from whom
bought or received for all secondhand goods and wares and merchandise. The
register shall further show the street address and residence of all such
persons.
      (2)   Open to inspection. The secondhand register shall at all times be
subject to the inspection of any police officer of the city.
   (C)   Report suspicious persons. It is the duty of any secondhand dealer to
report to the police any person who offers to sell any merchandise under such
circumstances as to put him or her on inquiry as to whether such person is the
true and lawful owner and has the lawful right to make such sale or delivery.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-3)
CHAPTER 118: TAXICABS
Section
   
118.01   Definition
   
118.02   License requirements
   
118.03   License fee; term
   
118.04   Inspection of vehicle
   
118.05   Liability insurance
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. Any vehicle carrying passengers for hire.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-1)
§ 118.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   License required; contents of application. All drivers or operators of
taxicabs within the city limits shall, before driving or operating a taxicab
upon the streets, alleys or public ways of the city, first obtain a license
therefor from the City Clerk. In order to obtain the license, the applicant
shall file with the City Clerk a written application stating that:
      (1)   He or she has never been convicted of violating any of the rules of
the road of the state or been charged and convicted in any city of violation of
any of the city’s ordinances relative to operating motor vehicles upon the
streets, alleys, avenues, or public ways of any city or town within the state;
      (2)   He or she has not been convicted in any court for the commission of
a felony within the preceding ten years; and
      (3)   He or she has not been confined in any penal institution for the
commission of a felony within the proceeding ten years.
   (B)   Issuance. Upon making satisfactory showing to the Mayor, the Mayor
shall direct the City Clerk to issue the license.
   (C)   Contents of license. The license shall be in conformity with the
licenses issued in other cities within the state and shall have pasted thereon
a picture of the operator. The license number shall appear in bold numbers in
the upper right hand corner thereof.
   (D)   Display of license. No taxicab shall operate upon any of the public
streets, alleys, avenues and public ways of the city without the display of the
license.
   (E)   Compliance with provisions. In addition, such person must comply with
all additional provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-2)
§ 118.03 LICENSE FEE; TERM.
   (A)   Fee set by Council. The fee for such license shall be for the first
taxicab, and each additional license, the sums as set by the City Council by
motion or resolution.
   (B)   Term. Licenses shall extend from July 1 until June 30 following, and
full license fee must be paid for any part of such year.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-3)
§ 118.04 INSPECTION OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Inspection prior to licensing. No vehicle shall be licensed as a
taxicab until it has been thoroughly inspected by the Chief of Police or such
other official as the Mayor and City Council may direct, and found to be in a
safe, satisfactory and sanitary condition for the transportation of passengers.
   (B)   Notice of accident. If any vehicle licensed as a taxicab is involved
in a collision or accident, notice thereof shall be given to the Mayor and City
Council or to such other official as they may direct, and an inspection shall
be made of the cab before it can be again used in service.
   (C)   Report of examinations filed with city. The report of all such
examinations shall be filed with the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-4)
§ 118.05 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Upon an application being granted, the applicant shall, before the license
is issued, take out liability insurance in a company licensed to do business in
the state and to be approved by the Mayor and City Council, in a sum not less
than $10,000 per person, $20,000 aggregate and $5,000 property damage for each
taxicab licensed, not cancelable within ten days’ notice to the city. The
applicant must also file competent evidence with the Mayor and City Council
that the policy covers the period for which a license is to be granted.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-5)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-6)
CHAPTER 119: MEDICAL MARIJUANA
Section
In General
   
119.001   Legislative intent and purpose
   
119.002   Oklahoma Regulations adopted by reference
   
119.003   Definitions
Commercial Medical Marijuana Business Permit
   
119.015   Permit required
   
119.016   Additional licenses and permits may be required
   
119.017   Permit does not provide any exception, defense, or immunity from
other laws
   
119.018   Separate permit required for each location
   
119.019   Permit nontransferable
   
119.020   Ventilation, fire and life safety requirements
Medical Marijuana; General Provisions
   
119.035   Defense to criminal prosecutions
   
119.036   Inspections
   
119.037   Costs of inspection and clean-up
   
119.038   Forfeiture of permit
   
119.039   Landlord duty
   
119.040   Locations of medical marijuana businesses
   
119.041   Commercial medical marijuana businesses prohibited in residential
structure
   
119.042   Application requirements
   
119.043   Modifications to approved commercial medical marijuana business
permit
   
119.044   Fees required
   
119.045   Inspection required
   
119.046   Application processing
   
119.047   Approval requirements
   
119.048   Persons prohibited as permittees
Operation of Medical Marijuana Businesses
   
119.060   On-site use prohibited
   
119.061   Restriction on access to restricted area
   
119.062   Display of permit required
   
119.063   Business conducted within building
   
119.064   Use of pesticides
   
119.065   Ventilation required
   
119.066   Use of metals, butane, propane or other flammable products
   
119.067   Disposal of medical marijuana and marijuana byproducts
   
119.068   Delivery between medical marijuana businesses
   
119.069   Advertisement
   
119.070   Organization of cultivation facilities
   
119.071   Reporting of source, quantity, and sales
   
119.072   Requirements for public health and labeling
   
119.073   Compliance with other applicable law
   
119.074   Revocation of permit
   
119.075   Revocable privilege
   
119.076   Prohibited acts
   
119.077   Suspension or revocation of permit; imposition of fines
   
119.078   Term of permit; renewals; expiration of permit
Marijuana Growing Facilities for Personal Medical Use
   
119.090   Permit required
   
119.091   Term of permit; renewals
   
119.092   Permit does not provide any exception, defense, or immunity from
other laws
   
119.093   Permit nontransferable
   
119.094   Location and security
   
119.095   Application requirements
   
119.096   Fees required
   
119.097   Application processing
   
119.098   Approval requirements
 
   
119.999   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 119.001 LEGISLATIVE INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The intent of this chapter is to ensure the health and safety of all
Oklahomans and provide reasonable and orderly regulation of medical marijuana
as authorized by the lawful passage of State Question 788. Only the powers
enumerated under this chapter shall be proper. Any power not specifically
enumerated is prohibited.
      (1)   Any person, persons or entity violating any provisions of this
subchapter, either by doing anything which is prohibited or by failing to do
anything which is commanded, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500, plus court
costs. Each separate violation of this article shall constitute a separate
offense. Where a lesser fine is mandated by state law then the lesser amount of
fine shall be applicable.
      (2)   The regulations are intended to apply to all medical marijuana for
personal use or any medical marijuana business permitted under the State
Question 788. This code is intended to provide regulations to limit the impact
that medical marijuana cultivation and production will have on health, safety
and community resources.
      (3)   Use, distribution, cultivation, production, possession and
transportation of medical marijuana remains illegal under federal law and
marijuana remains classified as a “controlled substance” by federal law.
      (4)   The regulations for medical marijuana uses are not adequate at the
state level to address the impacts of medical marijuana on the city, making it
appropriate for local regulation of the impacts of medical marijuana uses.
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to promote or condone the
production, distribution or possession of marijuana in violation of any
applicable law.
      (6)   This chapter is to be construed to protect the public over medical
marijuana business interests. operation of a medical marijuana business is a
revocable privilege and not a right in the city. there is no property right for
an individual or business to have medical marijuana in the city.
      (7)   Medical marijuana is a heavily regulated industry in the city and
all permittees are assumed to be fully aware of the law. The city shall not
therefore be required to issue warnings before issuing citations for violations
of this chapter.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety
and welfare of the residents and patients of the city by prescribing the manner
in which medical marijuana businesses can be conducted in the city. Further,
the purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Provide for a means of cultivation, production, and distribution of
marijuana to patients who qualify to obtain, possess, and use marijuana for
medical purposes under the State Question 788;
      (2)   Protect public health and safety through reasonable limitations on
business operations as they relate to noise, air and water quality, food
safety, neighborhood and patient safety, security for the business and its
personnel, and other health and safety concerns;
      (3)   Impose fees to cover the cost to the city of permitting medical
marijuana businesses in an amount sufficient for the city to recover its costs
of the permitting program;
      (4)   Adopt a mechanism for monitoring compliance with the provisions of
this chapter;
      (5)   Create regulations that address the particular needs of the
patients and residents of the city and coordinate with laws that may be enacted
by the state regarding the issue;
      (6)   Facilitate the implementation of State Question 788 without going
beyond the authority granted by it; and
      (7)   Issue medical marijuana business permits only to individuals and
entities that have demonstrated an intent and ability to comply with this
chapter without monitoring by city officials.
(Prior Code, § 3-12A-1) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.002 OKLAHOMA REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Oklahoma State Department of Health Regulations, Title 310, Chapter
681, Medical Marijuana Control Program as it may from time to time be amended
is adopted by reference and is made a part of the ordinances of the city, as if
fully set forth in this code. The provisions of these regulations shall take
effect and be controlling with the city limits so that a violation of the
provisions of the regulations will be a violation of this code. Nothing in this
section shall grant to the city the power or jurisdiction to prosecute offenses
that a city is not authorized to prosecute. Copies of the rules are on file in
the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Any crimes specified in the rules or other laws as felonies are
specifically excluded from inclusion in this chapter.
   (C)   The penalty for a misdemeanor violation of the rules as adopted by
this chapter shall be the maximum penalty allowed by state law but not
exceeding the jurisdictional limits of the city’s Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 3-12A-2) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.003 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the
following meaning, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   APPLICANT. The natural person in whose name a permit would be issued.
   COMPLETE APPLICATION. A document prepared in accordance with the rules and
the forms and instructions provided by the city, including any supporting
documentation required as well as the application fee.
   DISPENSARY. An entity that has been licensed by the Oklahoma State Health
Department pursuant to 63 O.S. § 421A and permitted by the city pursuant to
this chapter, which allows the entity to purchase medical marijuana from a
processor permittee or grower permittee and sell medical marijuana only to
qualified patients and caregivers.
   DISPENSE. The selling of medical marijuana or a medical marijuana product to
a qualified patient or the patient’s designated caregiver that is packaged in a
suitable container appropriately labeled for subsequent administration to or
use by a qualified patient.
   DOMICILE. A person’s true, fixed, primary permanent home and place of
habitation and the tax parcel on which it is located. It is the place where the
person intends to remain and to which the person expects to return when the
person leaves without intending to establish a new domicile elsewhere.
   ENTITY. An individual, general partnership, a limited partnership, a limited
liability company, a trust, an estate, an association, a corporation or any
other legal or commercial entity.
   GROWER or COMMERCIAL GROWER. An entity that has been licensed by the
Oklahoma State Department of Health and permitted by the city, which allows the
entity to grow, harvest and package medical marijuana to a dispensary,
processor or researcher.
   MANUFACTURE. The process of converting harvested plant material into medical
marijuana concentrate by physical or chemical means for use as an ingredient in
a medical marijuana product.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of a plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or
not; the seeds of a plant of that type; the resin extracted from a part of a
plant of that type; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture
or preparation of a plant of that type or of its seeds or resin. MARIJUANA does
not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks,
oils or cake made from the seeds of the plant, or any other compound,
manufacture, salt derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks,
except the resin extracted from the mature stalks, fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination.
   MATURE PLANT. Harvestable female marijuana plant that is flowering. MATURE
PLANTS are not authorized under this section prior to 60 days after the
enactment of 63 O.S. §§ 420A et seq.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Marijuana that is grown, processed, dispensed, tested,
possessed or used for a medical purpose.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS. Any business licensed by the Oklahoma State
Health Department and permitted by the city to dispense, grow, research or
process medical marijuana.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CONCENTRATE (CONCENTRATE). A substance obtained by
separating cannabinoids from any part of the marijuana plant by physical or
chemical means, so as to deliver a product with a cannabinoid concentration
greater than the raw plant material from which it is derived, intended to be
refined for use as an ingredient in a medical marijuana product and not for
administration to a qualified patient.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PRODUCT. A product that contains cannabinoids that have
been extracted from plant material or the resin therefrom by physical or
chemical means and is intended for administration to a qualified patient,
including, but not limited to, oils, tinctures, edibles, pills, topical forms,
gels, creams, forms medically appropriate for administration by vaporization or
nebulizer, patches, tinctures and liquids excluding live plant forms.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA WASTE. Unused, surplus, returned or out-of-date marijuana;
recalled marijuana; unused marijuana; plant debris of the plant of the genus
cannabis, including dead plants and all unused plant parts and roots; and any
wastewater generated during growing and processing.
   PERMITTEE. Any natural born person or entity that holds a marijuana permit
provided for in this chapter.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL. An elementary, middle or high school maintained by private
individuals, religious organizations or corporations, funded at least in part,
by fees or tuition, and open only to pupils selected and admitted based on
religious affiliations or other particular qualifications.
   PROCESSOR. An entity that has been licensed by Oklahoma State Department of
Health and permitted by the city, which allows the entity to: purchase
marijuana from a commercial grower; prepare, manufacture, package, sell to and
deliver medical marijuana products to a dispensary permittee or other processor
permittee; and may process marijuana received from a qualified patient into a
medical marijuana concentrate, for a fee.
   PUBLIC SCHOOL. An elementary, middle or high school established under state
law, regulated by the local state authorities in the various political
subdivisions, funded and maintained by public taxation, and open and free to
all children of the particular district where the school is located.
   RESIDENT. An individual who is an income taxpayer in the state and can
provide proof of residency as required by 63 Oklahoma Statutes §§ 420A et seq.,
and OAC 310:681-1-6.
   RETAILER. As used in 63 O.S. §§ 421A et seq., means a DISPENSARY.
   REVOCATION. The city’s final decision that any permit issued pursuant to
this chapter is rescinded because the individual or entity does not comply with
the applicable requirements in this chapter.
   SCHOOL. Either public or private nurseries, kindergartens, elementary, which
may include either K - 6 or K - 8, secondary schools and technology center
schools, not to exceed two years of junior college work, night schools, adult
and other special classes, vocational and technical instruction and such other
school classes and instruction as may be authorized by laws which are now in
effect or which may hereafter be enacted.
   SEEDLING. An immature marijuana plant that has no flowers.
   STATE QUESTION. Oklahoma State Question No. 788 and Initiative Petition
Number 412.
(Prior Code, § 3-12A-3) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS PERMIT
§ 119.015 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons or other business entity
to operate as a commercial medical marijuana dispensary, commercial medical
marijuana grower, commercial medical marijuana manufacturer, commercial medical
marijuana processor within the corporate limits of the city without first
having obtained a permit there as provided herein.
   (B)   The fees for the permits required hereunder shall be established by
resolution of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-12B-1) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018) Penalty, see §
119.999
§ 119.016 ADDITIONAL LICENSES AND PERMITS MAY BE REQUIRED.
   The permit requirement set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to,
and not in lieu of, any other licensing and permitting requirements imposed by
any other federal, state or local law, including, by way of example, any
applicable building permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-12B-2) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.017 PERMIT DOES NOT PROVIDE ANY EXCEPTION, DEFENSE, OR IMMUNITY FROM
OTHER LAWS.
   The issuance of any permit pursuant to this chapter does not create an
exception, defense or immunity to any person in regard to any potential
criminal liability the person may have for the production, distribution or
possession of marijuana.
(Prior Code, § 3-12B-3) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.018 SEPARATE PERMIT REQUIRED FOR EACH LOCATION.
   A separate permit shall be required for each premises from which a
commercial medical marijuana business is operated. Except as specifically
provided in this chapter, no two or more different commercial medical marijuana
businesses may be treated as one premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-12B-4) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.019 PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE.
   A permit that has been issued by the city for medical marijuana is
nontransferable. A commercial medical marijuana business permit is not
transferable or assignable, including, without limitation, not transferable or
assignable to a different premises, to a different type of business, or to a
different owner or permittee. A commercial medical marijuana business permit is
valid only for the owner named thereon, the type of business disclosed on the
application for the permit, and the location for which the permit is issued.
The permittee of a commercial medical marijuana business permit are only those
persons disclosed in the application or subsequently disclosed to the city in
accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-12B-5) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.020 VENTILATION, FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to state and local building and fire codes, the following
requirements shall be enforced.
   (A)   Ventilation. A plan for ventilation of all medical marijuana
facilities that describes the ventilation systems that will be used to prevent
any odor of marijuana off the premises of the establishment must be submitted
to the city. For retail and cultivation facilities, such plan shall also
include all ventilation systems used to control the environment for the plants
and describe how such systems operate with the systems preventing any odor
leaving the premises.
      (1)   The required outdoor ventilation rate required for each retail
marijuana establishment or a medical marijuana cultivation facility will be as
follows:
         (a)   For marijuana cultivation facilities, eight persons per 1,000
square feet with a ventilation rate of 60 cubic feet per minute per person; and
         (b)   For retail marijuana stores, the licensed premises for marijuana
transporters, retail marijuana product manufacturing facilities, and retail
marijuana testing facilities and medical marijuana testing facilities, eight
persons per 1,000 square feet with 15 cubic feet per minute per person.
   (B)   Fire separation requirements. For medical marijuana dispensaries, a
minimum of a two-hour fire separation will be required between all medical
marijuana dispensaries and any adjacent business, unless higher performance is
required by applicable law.
   (C)   Fire suppression requirements. For all buildings regardless of size
containing medical marijuana cultivation, production, storage or manufacturing
a type 13 automatic sprinkler system will be required.
   (D)   Exterior electrical disconnect required. For all buildings containing
medical marijuana cultivation, production, storage, or manufacturing, a NEMA
type 3 electrical disconnect will be required on the exterior of the building.
The electrical disconnect must be labeled and in an accessible location.
(Prior Code, § 3-12B-6) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
MEDICAL MARIJUANA; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 119.035 DEFENSE TO CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   Compliance with the requirements of this chapter shall not provide an
exception, immunity or defense to criminal prosecution under any applicable
law, except in the city’s municipal court, for a violation of this chapter as
specifically provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-1) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.036 INSPECTIONS.
   Every medical marijuana dispensary, commercial grower and processor shall
permit the local permitting authority, and any agent of the local permitting
authority, or anyone authorized, to inspect the premises of the business
pursuant to this code, or State Question 788, and any of the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-2) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.037 COSTS OF INSPECTION AND CLEAN-UP.
   In the event the city incurs costs in the inspection, clean-up, surrender of
plants or any other requirements to remove medical marijuana of any medical
marijuana business, or any person cultivating, producing, distributing or
possessing marijuana, the business and responsible person shall reimburse the
city all actual costs incurred by the city for such inspection or clean up.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-3) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.038 FORFEITURE OF PERMIT.
   In the event that a commercial medical marijuana business does not commence
operations within 30 days of issuance of a permit from the city, the permit
shall be deemed forfeited and the business may not commence operations. This
requirement will go in effect beginning January 1, 2019.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-4) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.039 LANDLORD DUTY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a building to lease space or allow the
use of any portion of the building by a commercial medical marijuana business
unless the tenant has a valid commercial medical marijuana business permit or
has applied for and not been denied a commercial medical marijuana business
permit or no marijuana is located on the premises until a permit has been
issued by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-5) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018) Penalty, see §
119.999
§ 119.040 LOCATIONS OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Locations; fixed location required.
      (1)   Mobile medical marijuana sales of all types are prohibited within
the city. This includes but is not limited to trailers, recreational vehicles
and trucks.
      (2)   With the exception of a commercial grower, it shall be unlawful to
operate a medical marijuana business outside of an enclosed, fixed building.
All medical marijuana business permits shall be issued for a specific fixed
location within an enclosed building.
   (B)   Permitted use in zoning district. A commercial medical marijuana
business permit may be issued only if the business qualifies as a use permitted
as a matter of right in the zoning district where it is proposed to be located.
Conditional use permits shall not be applicable for medical marijuana
businesses. Commercial medical marijuana business permits are permitted by
right:
      (1)   As “retail sales” for a medical marijuana dispensary;
      (2)   As “agriculture” for a medical marijuana grower; and
      (3)   As “manufacturing and production” for a medical marijuana
manufacturer, storage, or processor.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-6) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.041 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURE.
   (A)   No commercial medical marijuana business in buildings with residences
or residential zoning districts. It shall be unlawful to operate a commercial
medical marijuana business in a building that contains a residence, or within a
dwelling unit within any zoning district, or within a residential zoning
district, or within a mixed-use development that includes a residence.
   (B)   No retail sales in cultivation facilities or manufacturing. It shall
be unlawful for any person to permit retail sales within a medical marijuana
business that is a cultivation facility or processes medical marijuana.
   (C)   Separation from uses. No commercial medical marijuana permit shall be
issued for a location within 1,000 feet of any private or public school.
Distances shall be measured from any entrance of the school to the nearest
property line point of the medical marijuana business.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-7) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018) Penalty, see §
119.999
§ 119.042 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application for a commercial medical marijuana permit shall be made
to the city on forms provided by the city for that purpose. The applicant shall
use the application to demonstrate its compliance with this chapter and any
other applicable law, rule or regulation.
   (B)   The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The Oklahoma Medical Marijuana Authority business license number;
      (2)   Contact information for the owner or owners of the medical
marijuana business in whose name the permit is proposed to be issued:
         (a)   If an owner is a corporation, the name and address of any
officer or director of the corporation and of any person holding issued and
outstanding capital stock of the corporation;
         (b)   If an owner is a partnership, association, or company, the name
and address of any person holding an interest therein and the managing members.
If a managing member is an entity rather than an individual, the same
disclosure shall be required for each entity with an ownership interest until a
managing member that is a natural person is identified; and
         (c)   If an owner is not a natural person, the organizational
documents for all entities identified in the application, identification of the
natural person that is authorized to speak for the entity, and contact
information for that person.
      (3)   An operating plan for the proposed medical marijuana business,
including the following information:
         (a)   A description of the products and services to be provided by the
medical marijuana business;
         (b)   A dimensioned floor plan, clearly labeled, showing:
            1.   The layout of the structure and the floor plan in which the
medical marijuana business is to be located;
            2.   The principal uses of the floor area depicted on the floor
plan, including, but not limited to, the areas where non-patients will be
permitted, private consulting areas, storage areas, retail areas, and
restricted areas where medical marijuana will be located;
            3.   Areas where any services other than the distribution of
medical marijuana are proposed to occur in the premises; and
            4.   The separation of the areas that are open to persons who are
not patients from those areas open to patients.
         (c)   For cultivation facilities, a plan that specifies the methods to
be used to prevent the growth of harmful mold, humidity and other related
problems.
      (4)   A lighting plan showing the lighting outside of the medical
marijuana business for security purposes and compliance with applicable city
requirements;
      (5)   A fire separation plan showing a minimum of a two-hour fire
separation between a medical dispensary and any adjacent business, or a fire
suppression plan for all buildings containing cultivation, production and
manufacturing;
      (6)   A plan for disposal of any medical marijuana or medical marijuana-
infused product that is not sold to a patient or primary caregiver in a manner
that protects any portion thereof from being possessed or ingested by any
person or animal;
      (7)   A plan for ventilation of the medical marijuana business that
describes the ventilation systems that will be used to prevent any odor of
medical marijuana off the premises of the business. For medical marijuana
businesses that grow medical marijuana plants, such plan shall also include all
ventilation systems used to control the environment for the plants and describe
how such systems operate with the systems preventing any odor leaving the
premises. For medical marijuana businesses that produce medical marijuana
infused products, such plan shall also include all ventilation systems used to
mitigate noxious gases or other fumes used or created as part of the production
process; and
      (8)   A description of all toxic, flammable or other materials regulated
by a federal, state or local government that would have authority over the
business if it was not a marijuana business, that will be used or kept at the
medical marijuana business, the location of such materials, and how such
materials will be stored.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-8) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.043 MODIFICATIONS TO APPROVED COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS
PERMIT.
   Prior to making a modification of a commercial medical marijuana business
that would require a building permit or change items required by §§
119.042(B)(4), (B)(5) or (B(7) of this chapter, the permittee shall submit to
the city and have approved a completed application for modification of premises
on a form provided by the city. The application shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable modification application fee.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-9) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.044 FEES REQUIRED.
   Any application for a commercial medical marijuana permit shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee in an amount established by the
city. After the application review period, if the city deems the application to
be complete, a nonrefundable permit fee in an amount established by the city
will be due prior to the issuance of the commercial medical marijuana permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-10) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.045 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   An inspection of the proposed medical marijuana business by the city
inspector shall be required prior to issuance of a permit. Such inspection
shall occur after the premises are ready for operation, but prior to the
stocking of the business with any medical marijuana, and prior to the opening
of the business to any patients or the public. The inspection is to verify that
the business facilities are constructed and can be operated in accordance with
the application submitted and the applicable requirements of this code and any
other applicable law, rule, or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-11) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.046 APPLICATION PROCESSING.
   The processing of the application by the city is not complete until the city
has:
   (A)   Determined the application is complete;
   (B)   Determined the medical marijuana business is prepared and able to
operate in compliance with all applicable laws;
   (C)   Conducted an inspection of the business;
   (D)   Obtained all other information the Department determines necessary to
make a decision whether to approve or deny the permit application, or approve
it with conditions; and
   (E)   Prepared the documentation necessary to support the decision made by
the Department on the application.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-12) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.047 APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The city may:
   (A)   Issue a commercial medical marijuana business permit if:
      (1)   The inspection, and all other information available to the city
verify that the applicant has submitted a full and complete application;
      (2)   Improvements have been made to the business location consistent
with the application;
      (3)   The applicant is prepared to operate the business with other owners
and managers as set forth in the application; and
      (4)   The applicant and the business location are in compliance with this
code and any other applicable law, rule or regulation.
   (B)   (1)   Deny any application that does not meet the requirements of this
chapter or any other applicable law, rule, or regulation, or that contains any
false or incomplete information.
      (2)   The conditions of an approval of a medical marijuana business
permit shall include, at a minimum, operation of the business in compliance
with all of the plans and information made part of the application.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-13) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.048 PERSONS PROHIBITED AS PERMITTEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any of the following persons to have an ownership
or a financial interest in a medical marijuana business, and no permit provided
by this chapter shall be issued to or held by, and no medical marijuana
business shall be managed by:
   (A)   Any person until the annual fee for the permit has been paid;
   (B)   Any natural person who is under 18 years of age;
   (C)   Any person who operates or manages a medical marijuana business
contrary to the provisions of this chapter, any other applicable law, rule or
regulation or conditions imposed on land use or permit approvals, or contrary
to the terms of the plans submitted with the permit application, as such plans
may be amended as provided in this chapter, or has operated a business in
violation of any law;
   (D)   A sheriff, deputy, police officer or prosecuting officer, or an
officer or employee of the state licensing authority or a local permitting
authority; or
   (E)   A person whose authority to be a primary caregiver has been revoked by
the state health agency.
(Prior Code, § 3-12C-14) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
OPERATION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
§ 119.060 ON-SITE USE PROHIBITED.
   No marijuana shall be smoked, eaten or otherwise consumed or ingested within
the medical marijuana business.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-1) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.061 RESTRICTION ON ACCESS TO RESTRICTED AREA.
   (A)   No person, other than a patient, permittee, employee, or a caregiver,
shall be in the restricted area. No patient shall be allowed entry into the
restricted area without showing a valid Oklahoma medical marijuana patient
license and a valid picture ID.
   (B)   No person, other than an employee or caregiver of the business shall
be permitted in the restricted area of the business. No access to the
restricted area may be permitted by non-Oklahoma residents or for compensation.
A log shall be maintained on the business premises and available for inspection
upon request by Code Enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-2) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.062 DISPLAY OF PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A valid city issued commercial medical marijuana business permit shall be
conspicuously posted in the business.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-3) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.063 BUSINESS CONDUCTED WITHIN BUILDING.
   Any and all cultivation, production, distribution, possession, storage,
display, sales or other distribution of marijuana shall occur only within the
restricted area of a commercial medical marijuana business and shall not be
visible from the exterior of the business.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-4) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.064 USE OF PESTICIDES.
   No pesticides or insecticides which are prohibited by applicable law for
fertilization or production of edible produce shall be used on any marijuana
cultivated, produced or distributed by a medical marijuana business.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-5) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.065 VENTILATION REQUIRED.
   A commercial medical marijuana business shall be ventilated so that the odor
of marijuana cannot be detected by a person with a normal sense of smell at the
exterior of the medical marijuana business or at any adjoining use or property.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-6) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.066 USE OF METALS, BUTANE, PROPANE OR OTHER FLAMMABLE PRODUCTS.
   (A)   No medical marijuana business may use metals, butane, propane or other
flammable product, or produce flammable vapors, to process marijuana unless the
process used and the premises are verified as safe and in compliance with all
applicable codes by a qualified industrial hygienist.
   (B)   The city may require the business to obtain verification from a
qualified industrial hygienist that the manner in which the business is
producing medical marijuana complies with all applicable laws and does not
produce noxious or dangerous gases or odors or otherwise create a danger to any
person or entity in or near the businesses.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-7) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.067 DISPOSAL OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA AND MARIJUANA BYPRODUCTS.
   All medical marijuana and any product containing a usable form of marijuana
must be made unusable and unrecognizable prior to removal from the business in
compliance with all applicable laws. This provision shall not apply to licensed
law enforcement, including, without limitation, the city’s Police Department
and the city’s Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-8) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.068 DELIVERY BETWEEN MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport medical marijuana, except
as specifically allowed by applicable law, unless the medical marijuana being
transported meets the following requirements:
   (A)   All medical marijuana is transported in a locked container, shielded
from public view and labeled “Medical Marijuana or Derivative”;
   (B)   Unless otherwise specifically allowed by applicable law, medical
marijuana may be transported only between medical marijuana businesses; and
   (C)   The medical marijuana must be accompanied by the manifest in
accordance with state requirements for transport of marijuana.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-9) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.069 ADVERTISEMENT.
   A commercial medical marijuana business may not advertise in a manner that
is inconsistent with the medicinal use of medical marijuana. A medical
marijuana business may not advertise in a manner that is misleading, deceptive,
false or designed to appeal to minors. Advertisement that promotes medical
marijuana for recreational or any use other than for medicinal purposes shall
be a violation of this code. The following conditions shall apply.
   (A)   Any person permitted as a medical marijuana business shall include in
any advertisement for medical marijuana or any medical marijuana-infused
product the following language: “For registered Oklahoma medical marijuana
patients only”. Provided, however, this language shall not be required to be
displayed upon any sign identifying a medical marijuana business, as permitted
by division (B)(2) of this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), it shall be
unlawful for any person permitted under this chapter or any other person to
advertise any medical marijuana or medical marijuana-infused product anywhere
in the city where the advertisement is in plain view of or in a place open to
the general public, including advertising utilizing any of the following media:
any billboard or other outdoor general advertising device as defined by the
zoning code; any sign mounted on a vehicle; any handheld or other portable
sign; or any handbill, leaflet or flier directly handed to any person in a
public place, left upon a motor vehicle, or posted upon any public or private
property. The prohibition set forth in this division (B) shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any sign located on the same zoned lot as a medical marijuana
business which exists solely for the purpose of identifying the location of the
medical marijuana business and which otherwise complies with this code and any
other applicable city laws and regulations;
      (2)   Any advertisement contained within a newspaper, magazine or other
periodical of general circulation within the city or on the internet, which may
include coupons;
      (3)   Any products marked with the name or logo of a marijuana business,
including wearable or non-consumable merchandise, packaging in which marijuana
is sold, or on medical marijuana accessories sold;
      (4)   Advertising which is purely incidental to sponsorship of a
charitable event by a medical marijuana business;
      (5)   A booth at a job fair or educational seminar where the only items
distributed are company or educational materials, and no other items are
distributed, shown or sold; and
      (6)   A booth at an adult event where the only items distributed are
company or educational materials, and no other items are distributed, shown or
sold.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense if a medical marijuana business employee
provided another individual, upon request, a business card for the purpose of
providing that person’s name and business affiliation, including, without
restriction, title, mailing address, email address and telephone number.
   (D)   No medical marijuana business shall distribute or allow the
distribution of any marijuana or products marked with its name or logo without
charge within a marijuana business or any place open to the public for the
purpose of promotion or advertising except as permitted in divisions (B)(5) and
(B)(6) of this section.
   (E)   No medical marijuana business shall distribute or allow the
distribution of any coupon or similar writing, electronically or on paper,
which purports to allow the bearer to exchange the same for any marijuana
product, either free or at a discount except as permitted in divisions (B)(5)
and (B)(6) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-10) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.070 ORGANIZATION OF CULTIVATION FACILITIES.
   All cultivation facilities shall be organized in orderly rows with aisles at
least three feet wide, and no more than eight feet between an aisle and the
next aisle or an aisle and a wall, and with clear access to all exits, unless
the city determines that the business has provided a dimensioned floor plan
that provides equivalent access and separation between plants and to exits.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-11) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.071 REPORTING OF SOURCE, QUANTITY, AND SALES.
   (A)   The records to be maintained by each medical marijuana business shall
include the source and quantity of any marijuana distributed, produced or
possessed within the premises.
   (B)   Such reports shall include, without limitation, for both acquisitions
from wholesalers and transactions to patients or caregivers, the following:
      (1)   Oklahoma medical marijuana license number of seller or purchaser;
and
      (2)   Date, weight, type of marijuana, and dollar amount or other
consideration of transaction.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-12) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.072 REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC HEALTH AND LABELING.
   (A)   The production of any medical marijuana-infused product shall be at a
medical marijuana- infused product manufacturer that meets all requirements of
a retail food establishment as set forth in 63 O.S. §§ 1-1101 et seq., 63 O.S.
§§ 1-1401 et seq., OAC 310:257 and OAC 310:240. The production of any product
containing medical marijuana shall comply with all health and safety standards
thereof. The permittee shall comply with all applicable state and local health
regulations related to the production, preparation, labeling, and sale of
prepared food items as if the medical marijuana-infused products were food
items.
   (B)   All medical marijuana sold or otherwise distributed by the permittee
shall be packaged and labeled in a manner that advises the purchaser that it
contains marijuana and specifies the amount of marijuana in the product, that
the marijuana is intended for medical use solely by the patient to whom it is
sold, and that any resale or redistribution of the medical marijuana to a third
person is prohibited. In addition, the label shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the state and any other applicable law.
   (C)   The product shall be packaged in a sealed container that cannot be
opened without obvious damage to the packaging.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-13) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.073 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.
   Except as may be provided otherwise in this chapter, or rules adopted
pursuant to this chapter or interpretations by the city, any law or regulation
adopted by the state governing the cultivation, production, possession or
distribution of marijuana for medical use shall also apply to medical marijuana
businesses in the city. Provided however, if a state law or regulation permits
what this chapter prohibits, this chapter shall prevail. Compliance with any
applicable state law or regulation that does not permit what this chapter
prohibits shall be deemed an additional requirement for issuance or denial of
any permit under this chapter, and noncompliance with any applicable state law
or regulation is unlawful and shall be grounds for revocation or suspension of
any permit issued under this chapter. No medical marijuana business shall
continue operations in violation of an additional state law or regulation,
which does not permit what this chapter prohibits, applicable within the city
after the effective date of the state law or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-14) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.074 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   If the state prohibits the cultivation, production, possession or other
distribution of marijuana through medical marijuana businesses, or if a medical
marijuana business is denied a commercial medical marijuana business permit or
has such permit revoked, or if a court of competent jurisdiction determines
that the federal government’s prohibition of the cultivation, production,
possession or other distribution of marijuana through medical marijuana
businesses supersedes state law, any permit issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be deemed to be immediately revoked by operation of law, with no ground
for appeal or other redress on behalf of the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-15) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.075 REVOCABLE PRIVILEGE.
   A commercial medical marijuana business permit is a revocable privilege, and
no applicant therefor or holder thereof shall be deemed to have acquired any
property interest therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-16) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.076 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts
unless such act is permitted under the provisions of State Question 788 or the
Oklahoma Health Department regulations:
   (A)   Cultivate, distribute or produce marijuana in plain view of or in a
place open to the general public;
   (B)   Smoke, use or ingest any marijuana on the premises of the commercial
medical marijuana business;
   (C)   Operate or be in physical control of any commercial medical marijuana
business, liquor establishment, vehicle, aircraft or motorboat while under the
influence of alcohol, medical marijuana, or other intoxicant;
   (D)   Possess medical marijuana that is not in a sealed package in a
location where the possessor is not authorized to possess or consume medical
marijuana;
   (E)   Possess more than six mature and six seedling marijuana plants without
a commercial medical marijuana business permit for a cultivation facility;
   (F)   Possess any marijuana without a medical marijuana license or a
marijuana business permit; further a holder of a medical marijuana license
shall not possess more than three ounces of marijuana on their person;
   (G)   Possess more than one ounce of concentrated marijuana without a
commercial medical marijuana permit for a business or a medical marijuana-
infused product manufacturer;
   (H)   Possess more than 72 ounces of edible marijuana without a commercial
medical marijuana permit for a business or a medical marijuana-infused product
manufacturer;
   (I)   Possess more than eight ounces of marijuana in their residence;
   (J)   Obtain marijuana from a person who is not permitted as a commercial
medical marijuana business;
   (K)   Possess or operate a commercial medical marijuana business in
violation of this chapter;
   (L)   Produce, distribute or possess more medical marijuana than allowed in
this chapter than disclosed in the application to the state for a medical
marijuana business permit or other applicable law;
   (M)   Distribute medical marijuana without a commercial medical marijuana
business permit or outside of the restricted area of the medical marijuana
business;
   (N)   Possess medical marijuana, own or manage a medical marijuana business,
or own or manage a building with a medical marijuana business, where there is
possession of medical marijuana by a person who is not a patient, caregiver or
a permittee of a medical marijuana business;
   (O)   Possess or operate a medical marijuana business in a location or in a
manner for which a medical marijuana business permit is prohibited by the terms
of this chapter;
   (P)   Operate a medical marijuana business without a commercial medical
marijuana business permit from the city;
   (Q)   Operate a medical marijuana business in a manner that is not
consistent with the items disclosed in the application for the medical
marijuana business, or is in violation of any plan made part of the permit
application;
   (R)   Distribute, or own or manage a medical marijuana business where
distribution occurs, from a medical marijuana business, a medical marijuana-
infused product that was produced in a manner that is not in compliance with
this chapter;
   (S)   Cultivate, manufacture, distribute or possess any medical marijuana at
a location without a commercial medical marijuana business permit prior to
passing the inspection required by this chapter;
   (T)   Make any changes, or for the permittee to allow any changes, to the
items included in the plans submitted with the permit application and approved
by the city, or the individuals identified in the application, without prior
approval of the city;
   (U)   Attempt to use or display a medical marijuana business permit at a
different location or for a different business entity than the location and
business entity disclosed on the application for the issued permit;
   (V)   Cultivate, produce, distribute or possess medical marijuana, or own or
manage a medical marijuana business in which another cultivates, produces,
distributes or possesses medical marijuana, in violation of this chapter or any
other applicable law;
   (W)   Own, manage or possess a medical marijuana business where medical
marijuana is outside of the restricted area portion of such business. It shall
be an affirmative defense to a violation of this section if the medical
marijuana outside of the restricted area was:
      (1)   In the custody and control of a patient or caregiver;
      (2)   Purchased by that patient or caregiver from the business and the
patient or caregiver has not left the business since purchase; and
      (3)   The amount of medical marijuana in the custody and control of the
patient or caregiver does not exceed the amount the patient or caregiver may
possess lawfully.
   (X)   Dispose of medical marijuana or any by-product of medical marijuana
containing marijuana in a manner contrary to this chapter;
   (Y)   Deliver or transport medical marijuana between medical marijuana
businesses except in strict compliance with this chapter;
   (Z)   Advertise or publish materials, honor coupons, sell or give away
products, or display signs that are in violation of this code;
   (AA)   Violate any provision of this code or any condition of an approval
granted pursuant to this code or any law, rule or regulation applicable to the
use of medical marijuana or the operation of a medical marijuana business;
   (BB)   Permit any other person to violate any provision of this code or any
condition of an approval granted pursuant to this code, or any law, rule or
regulation applicable to the use of medical marijuana or the operation of a
medical marijuana business;
   (CC)   Lease any property to a medical marijuana business that has marijuana
on the property without a medical marijuana business permit that has been
issued by the city;
   (DD)   Label or distribute a marijuana-infused product that is not labeled
as required by this code or other applicable law;
   (EE)   Distribute or deliver marijuana from a medical marijuana cultivation
facility to any location other than a medical marijuana business;
   (FF)   Printing or allowing the printing of a coupon that is not a
newspaper, magazine, or other periodical of general circulation within the city
or on the internet; and
   (GG)   Fail to provide a copy or record of a coupon authorized under this
chapter upon request of an authorized city employee.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-17) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.077 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; IMPOSITION OF FINES.
   (A)   A medical marijuana business permit may be suspended or revoked for
any of the following violations:
      (1)   Conviction of the business, a permittee, or any owner, or primary
caregiver of any violation of this chapter or any other law, rule, or
regulation applicable to the use of medical marijuana or operation of a medical
marijuana business;
      (2)   Misrepresentation or omission of any material fact, or false or
misleading information, on the application or any amendment thereto, or any
other information provided to the city related to the medical marijuana
business;
      (3)   Violation of any law by which, if occurring prior to submittal of
the application, could have been cause for denial of the permit application; or
      (4)   Distribution of medical marijuana, including, without limitation,
transporting marijuana, in violation of this chapter or any other applicable
law, rule or regulation.
   (B)   In the event a business or permittee is charged with violation of any
law, upon which a final judgment would be grounds for suspension or revocation
of the permit, the city may suspend the permit pending the resolution of the
alleged violation.
   (C)   Fines for violations of this chapter may be imposed by the city
against the person or any permittee up to $500 per person and any permittee per
occurrence. Any person or permittee subjected to fines, revocation or
suspension of its permit shall be entitled to a hearing by the city’s municipal
court to contest such penalties.
   (D)   If the city revokes or suspends a permit, the business may not move
any marijuana from the premises except under the supervision of the city’s
Police Department.
   (E)   In the event of the suspension of a marijuana business permit, during
the period of suspension, the business:
      (1)   Shall post two notices provided by the city, in conspicuous places,
one on the exterior and one on the interior of its premises for the duration of
the suspension; and
      (2)   Shall not distribute or produce or test or transport marijuana, nor
allow any customers into the permitted premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-18) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.078 TERM OF PERMIT; RENEWALS; EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Term of permit. A commercial medical marijuana business permit shall
be valid for one year. The permit shall expire on the last day of the month in
which the permit is issued of the year following issuance or renewal of the
permit.
   (B)   Renewal of permit. The permittee shall apply for renewal of the
commercial medical marijuana business permit at least 45 days before the
expiration of the permit. The permittee shall apply for renewal using forms
provided by the city. If the applicant fails to apply for renewal at least 45
days before the expiration of the permit but does apply for renewal prior to
expiration of the permit, the city may process the renewal application if the
applicant submits a late filing fee of $500 at the time of submittal of the
renewal application.
      (1)   The renewal application fee, and late fee if applicable, shall
accompany the renewal application. Once the application is deemed approved by
the city, the permit fee will be due prior to permit issuance. Such fees are
nonrefundable.
      (2)   In the event there has been a change to any of the plans identified
in the permit application which were submitted to and approved by the city with
the application or an earlier renewal, the renewal application shall include
specifics of the changes or proposed changes in any of such plans.
      (3)   In the event any person who has an interest as described in the
disclosures made to the city pursuant to this chapter, or any agent as defined
herein, or employee has been charged with or accused of violations of any law
since such disclosure, the renewal application shall include the name of the
violator, the date of the violation, the court and case number where the
violation was filed, and the disposition of the violation with the renewal
application.
      (4)   In the event the business permit has been suspended or revoked or a
permittee has received any notice of violation of any law that would impact
renewal, the renewal application shall include a copy of the notice, suspension
or revocation.
      (5)   The renewal application shall include verification that the
business has a valid state license and the state license is in good standing.
      (6)   The renewal application shall include a summary report for the
previous 12 months showing the amount of marijuana purchased, the amount of
marijuana sold, the forms in which marijuana was sold, the number of patients
and the number of primary caregivers who received marijuana, the police report
numbers or case numbers of all police calls to the medical marijuana business
and, for calls resulting in a charge of a violation of any law, the charge,
case number and disposition of any of the charges.
      (7)   The city shall not accept renewal applications after the expiration
of the permit, but instead shall require the applicant to file a new permit
application.
      (8)   In the event there have been allegations of violations of this code
by any of the permittees or the business submitting a renewal application, the
city may hold a hearing prior to approving the renewal application. The hearing
shall be to determine whether the application and proposed permittees comply
with this chapter and whether the operation of the business has been in
compliance with this code. If the city does not hold a hearing and the
application and the permittees do not meet the requirements of this chapter, or
the business has been operated in the past in violation of this code, the
renewal application may be denied or issued with conditions, and the decision
shall be final subject to the City Clerk and hearing officer’s review.
   (C)   Expiration of permit. Expiration of a commercial medical marijuana
business permit for any reason shall be considered an inactive local permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-12D-19) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL MEDICAL USE
§ 119.090 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to grow marijuana for personal
medical use within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a
permit from the city.
   (B)   A residential medical marijuana grow permit will only be granted to a
caregiver if:
      (1)   The caregiver is licensed as a caregiver by the state; and
      (2)   The medical marijuana grown is for use by the caregiver’s
custodial, minor child.
   (C)   The fees for the permits required hereunder shall be established by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-12E-1) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018) Penalty, see §
119.999
§ 119.091 TERM OF PERMIT; RENEWALS.
   (A)   Term of permit. A permit to grow marijuana for personal medical use
shall expire 12 months after date of issuance.
   (B)   Renewal of permit. The permittee shall apply for renewal at least ten
days prior to the expiration of their permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-12E-2) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.092 PERMIT DOES NOT PROVIDE ANY EXCEPTION, DEFENSE, OR IMMUNITY FROM
OTHER LAWS.
   The issuance of any permit pursuant to this chapter does not create an
exception, defense or immunity to any person in regard to any potential
criminal liability the person may have for the production, distribution, or
possession of marijuana.
(Prior Code, § 3-12E-3) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.093 PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   A permit that has been issued by the city to grow medical marijuana
for personal use is nontransferable.
   (B)   A personal use residential medical marijuana permit is not
transferable or assignable, including, without limitation, not transferable or
assignable to a different permittee. A personal use residential medical
marijuana permit is valid only for the owner named thereon and the location for
which the permit is issued. The permittee of a personal use residential medical
marijuana permit is only that person disclosed in the application or
subsequently disclosed to the city in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-12E-4) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.094 LOCATION AND SECURITY.
   All marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use shall be subject
to security provisions as stated herein prior to the granting of a permit.
Failing to comply with security provisions as stated herein will result in
revocation of the city permit for 12 months.
   (A)   All homegrown medical marijuana plants must be grown so that the
marijuana is not accessible to a member of the general public and is only
accessible to the patient or caregiver. If grown outdoors, it must be grown
behind a sight-proof fence that is at least six feet in height. The marijuana
plants must be completely enclosed by the fence and the fence must be secured
with a commercial quality lock and key.
   (B)   Growing marijuana shall not be visible from the public right-of-way.
   (C)   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with municipal building and fire codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed 1,000 watts per light. The
use of gas products (CO2, butane and the like) or CO2 and ozone generators in
the growing area is prohibited.
   (D)   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes
a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing
marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   (E)   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is
grown for personal use shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and
functioning cooking, eating, sleeping, sanitation/bathing facilities, working
water and electric services, with proper ingress and egress. No room shall be
used for growing marijuana where such cultivation will impair or prevent the
primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or sanitation/bathing.
(Prior Code, § 3-12E-5) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.095 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application for a personal medical marijuana grow permit shall be
made to the city on forms provided by the city for that purpose. The applicant
shall use the application to demonstrate its compliance with this chapter and
any other applicable law, rule, or regulation.
   (B)   The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The Oklahoma Medical Marijuana Authority patient license number;
      (2)   Contact information for the owner in whose name the permit is
proposed to be issued; and
      (3)   Proof of ownership or legal possession of the premises for the term
of the proposed permit:
         (a)   The applicant shall provide a copy of the property deed showing
proof of ownership; or
         (b)   If the applicant for a residential medical marijuana grow permit
is not the owner of the premises, the applicant shall provide the city a copy
of the premises lease for the period of time that the permit will be valid.
(Prior Code, § 3-12E-6) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.096 FEES REQUIRED.
   After the application review period, if the city deems the application to be
complete, a nonrefundable permit fee will be due prior to the issuance of the
personal medical marijuana grow permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-12E-7) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.097 APPLICATION PROCESSING.
   The processing of the application by the city is not complete until the
Department has:
   (A)   Determined the application is complete;
   (B)   Determined the permittee is prepared and able to grow personal use
medical marijuana in compliance with all applicable laws;
   (C)   Obtained all other information the Department determines necessary to
make a decision whether to approve or deny the permit application, or approve
it with conditions; and
   (D)   Prepared the documentation necessary to support the decision made by
the Department on the application.
(Prior Code, § 3-12E-8) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.098 APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The city may:
   (A)   Issue a residential medical marijuana grow permit if:
      (1)   The applicant is licensed by the state under 63 O.S. § 421A; and
      (2)   All other information available to the city to verify that the
applicant has submitted a full and complete application; and
      (3)   The applicant and the location of the residence are in compliance
with this code and any other applicable law, rule, or regulation.
   (B)   Deny any application that does not meet the requirements of this
chapter or any other applicable law, rule, or regulation, or that contains any
false or incomplete information.
(Prior Code, § 3-12E-9) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 119.999 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this chapter an act
is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful the violation of any provision of this code
or of any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500, plus costs. Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation
of this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-12F-1) (Ord. 863, passed 9-18-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
      
136.   REGULATIONS CONCERNING JUVENILES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Attempt to commit offense
   
130.03   Aiding in offense
   
130.04   Penalty not to excuse offense
 
   
130.99   General penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFFENSE. Whenever used in this chapter or in any title, chapter or ordinance
of the city, means the unlawful act of doing, or failing to do, some particular
act or thing construed therein to be detrimental to the general welfare,
morals, peace, health or safety of the inhabitants of the city.
   VIOLATION. The doing of any of the acts or things prohibited, or failing to
do any of the acts or things commanded to be done, as more fully specified and
set forth by any provision of this chapter or any title, or chapter hereof, or
future ordinances of the city, is hereby declared to be an offense against the
good order, public peace, morals, health, proper government and welfare of the
city and unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-1)
§ 130.02 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-2)
§ 130.03 AIDING IN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-3)
§ 130.04 PENALTY NOT TO EXCUSE OFFENSE.
   The imposition of one penalty for any offense shall not excuse it or permit
it to continue, nor prevent the imposition of further penalties, should the
offenses be continued or permitted to continue.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-4)
§ 130.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this title is punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-2A-5)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Petty larceny prohibited
   
131.02   Injuring automobiles and other vehicles
   
131.03   Damaging property
   
131.04   Placing signs on property of another
   
131.05   Throwing objects or shooting at persons or property
   
131.06   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
131.07   Illegal entrance
   
131.08   Injuring public streets and trees
   
131.09   Obstructing drains, streams, waterways
   
131.10   Trespass prohibited
   
131.11   Parking on property of another person or business
   
131.12   Improper use of driveways and parking areas
   
131.13   Interference with fire hydrants
   
131.14   Placement of structure on public grounds
   
131.15   Surrender of city property
§ 131.01 PETTY LARCENY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PETTY LARCENY. The taking of personal property of value not exceeding $50
accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to deprive another thereof,
but it does not include the taking of such property from the “person” of
another.
   (B)   Prohibition. Petty larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits
larceny shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   Starting vehicle. It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise
meddle with, molest, enter, occupy, take or drive away any automobile or other
vehicle belonging to another, without the consent of the owner or person in
charge thereof.
   (B)   Defacing vehicle. It is unlawful for any person to mutilate, deface or
injure any automobile or other vehicle, or to remove therefrom any number, tag
or mark indicating ownership or identity thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-2)
§ 131.03 DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   (A)   Buildings and other property.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to purposely destroy, injure, deface,
besmear, or molest any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other
property, real or personal, public or private, belonging to another, or to use
any such property wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person
entitled to its use. It is unlawful to interfere wrongfully with the use of any
such property by its owner or any other person entitled to its use.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to loosen or remove any plank, board,
block, brick, stone, stringer, support or other part from, or to injure or
destroy, any sidewalk, crossing, bridge, culvert, viaduct, gate, sign or other
property of another, without lawful authority.
   (B)   Public utilities; larceny.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to adjust, connect, disconnect,
molest, injure, destroy or in any way tamper with any water or gas pipe, any
telephone pole or apparatus, meterloop, riser or connection belonging thereto,
or any water, gas or electric meter on meter box or housing, or any pipe, wire,
conduit or connection belonging thereto, or any other part of a water, gas or
electrical system, or to do any act or use any contrivance to prevent or affect
correct and proper registration by any such meter. This shall not apply to
officers and employees of the city or of any person, firm or corporation owning
or operating such water, gas or electric system, acting in line of duty.
      (2)   No person shall, without lawful authority, make any splice, tap or
other connection into or on any cable, wire, pipe or other connection into or
on any cable, wire, pipe or other service furnished to the residents of the
city by the city or by any person, firm or corporation operating in the city
under a valid permit issued by the city.
      (3)   Any person who, with intent to defraud, makes or causes to be made
any pipe, wire or other instrument or contrivance and connects the same or
causes the same to be connected with any pipe provided for the purpose of
conducting water or gas, or with any wire or other electrical conductor
provided for the purpose of conducting electricity, so as to conduct such gas,
water or electric current, to a point where the same may be consumed, without
its passing through meters provided for registering the quantity consumed, or
in any manner so as to evade payment therefor, whether the gas, water or
electrical current is furnished through a meter or not, shall be guilty of an
offense. Every person who, with like intent, injures or alters any gas,
electric or water meter or obstructs its action is guilty of an offense.
   (C)   Public plants and trees. It is unlawful for any person to willfully
and without authority cut, pull, pluck or otherwise injure any flowers,
flowering plants, shrubs or trees growing in or around any park or public
street within the city, or willfully or without authority to tear down, remove,
cut or otherwise injure or destroy any gate or fence enclosing any such park or
ground, or willfully injure or destroy any stand, bench, seat or other property
situated upon such park or ground.
   (D)   Trees, plants or fruit; trespass. It is unlawful for any person to
willfully cut down, root up, sever, injure or destroy any fruit tree, shade or
ornamental tree, cultivated root, plant, vine, shrub or bush whatever, which is
the property of another, standing on or attached to the land of another, or to
pick, destroy or carry away therefrom or in any way interfere with any part of
the fruit thereof, or to trespass on the premises of another, without the
consent of the owner or person in charge.
   (E)   Defacing public property. It is an offense for any person to
maliciously or willfully deface, injure, destroy, smear or bedaub any building,
sidewalk, street, pavement, curbing, water or sewer line, or other real or
personal property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04 PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill, placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building,
fence, sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other
property of another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.05 THROWING OBJECTS OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   Stones, shot. It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any
stone, shot or other object into or across any street or alley, or in any place
where he or she is likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure
property, or to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person,
vehicle, structure, electric light or other property of another (whether public
or private), except in case where such is done in defense of oneself, of
another person or of property.
   (B)   Injurious substances. It is unlawful for any person to purposely or
premeditatedly put or throw upon the person or property of another, or upon any
animal, any acid, corrosive or other irritating or harmful substance, or human
or animal waste or urine, with intent to injure or harass the person, property
or animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.06 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the city without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley or avenue of the city, any hut, shanty, hovel or other
structure without authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.07 ILLEGAL ENTRANCE.
   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into
an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure
is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or
otherwise or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed, or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.08 INJURING PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the city;
      (2)   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph or electric wire, or any
wire to any live tree;
      (3)   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under the
supervision or control of the city;
      (4)   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the city; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
      (5)   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the city inspector so to do.
   (B)   Supervision of work. Any such digging, removing, or driveway
connection shall be done under the supervision of the Street Superintendent or
City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.09 OBSTRUCTING DRAINS, STREAMS, WATERWAYS.
   (A)   Altering course of water.
      (1)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to change, alter,
deflect, destroy or injure any gutter, waterway, water outlet, drain, ditch,
stream or other water passage, either natural or artificial, in or upon the
streets, avenues, alleys or other public ways or public property within the
city or to change the course or flow of any water passage or stream running
upon his or her property or upon the side of the street adjacent to his or her
property in such a manner as to cast the stream or flow of water into the
public street or other public way or upon the property of another.
      (2)   Necessity; permission required. If it becomes necessary to change,
alter or in any way interfere with any gutter, drain, ditch, stream or other
water passage, for the purpose of protecting the streets or other public ways
or property, or for the protection or preservation of the property of any
person, it shall be necessary first to obtain the consent of the city
inspector.
   (B)   Obstructing waterway. It is unlawful for any person to fill up,
deflect or obstruct any gutter, waterway, water outlet, drain, stream, ditch,
sewer or other water passage, either natural or artificial, by throwing or
causing to be thrown therein any trash, rubbish, garbage, brush or other thing.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.10 TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. That property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
      TRESPASS. Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. TRESPASS
shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in
lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or
the agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of
the premises. TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer or owner or
other authorized person; provided, that the provisions of this definition shall
not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence upon such premises is
authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of such premises;
nor shall the provisions of this definition apply unless hours of business
operations are posted upon such premises. TRESPASS shall also be defined as the
act of returning to private property before the posted time of opening for
business operation on the next business day after having been directed to
vacate such premises under the terms of this section.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private
property.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.11 PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER PERSON OR BUSINESS.
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, parking area, yard or any
portion of the premises or property of another person or business, including,
but not limited to, any restaurant, gasoline or filling station or other
business, when the business is not open to the public for business without the
expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge thereof, or when
necessary in the performance of a duty, or otherwise by authority of law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-11) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.12 IMPROPER USE OF DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING AREAS.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle onto the premises,
driveway or parking area of any place of business without purchasing or
attempting to purchase or obtain service or merchandise thereat. It shall be
considered a violation of this section to drive onto the premises without
stopping and requesting services or attempting to purchase merchandise,
provided nothing herein shall prohibit deliveries of material or merchandise to
the premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-12) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.13 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Opening hydrant. It is unlawful for any person except one duly
authorized by the city water superintendent or a member of the Fire Department
to open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect
anything with, any fire hydrant belonging to the city.
   (B)   Obstructing access. It is unlawful for any person to obstruct free
access to any fire hydrant in the city. The obstructions prohibited in this
section include, but are not limited to, those caused by placement of boxes,
cartons or other containers, or brick, lumber or dirt, near or around such
hydrants, or the growth of grass, weeds or plants near the fire hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-13) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.14 PLACEMENT OF STRUCTURE ON PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   Any person who shall maintain, erect or permit the erection of any building,
hut, hotel, shanty, tent or other structure under his or her control, upon any
street, sidewalk, alley, avenue or other public grounds of the city shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-14) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.15 SURRENDER OF CITY PROPERTY.
   Each and every person who, having been an officer or employee of the city,
wrongfully refuses to surrender all books, papers or other property coming into
his or her possession as such officer or employee, when so requested to do so
by his or her successor in office or his or her superior in authority or upon
any written order of the City Council or other duly authorized city official,
shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-2B-15) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
Section
   
132.01   Disturbing the peace
   
132.02   Insulting signs, literature or language
   
132.03   Weapons; firearms
   
132.04   Unnecessary noise
   
132.05   Political advertising on rights-of-way
§ 132.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another
or others by doing any of the acts set out in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Acts enumerated. Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the
following in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of
another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or
not at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Holding an unlawful assembly of three or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (7)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by
rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or
in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (8)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (9)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      (10)   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
(Prior Code, § 5-2C-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Signs. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the
city to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common
acceptance is insulting, profane or abusive to the citizens of the city, and
which is calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach
of the peace or an assault.
   (B)   Profane literature. It is unlawful for any person to willfully use,
utter, publish, circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or
insulting language or literature where:
      (1)   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      (2)   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
   (C)   Ridiculing religion. It is unlawful for any person to utter, publish,
distribute or circulate any literature or language within the corporate limits
of the city that casts profane ridicule on any deity, or any religion, which in
its common acceptance is calculated or where the natural consequence is to
cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 5-2C-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.03 WEAPONS; FIREARMS.
   (A)   Carrying weapons; exceptions. It is unlawful for any person, except
those persons authorized by law, to carry upon or about his or her person or in
his or her vehicle or automobile any pistol, revolver, weapon of the kind
usually known as air pistol or air gun, or weapon of the kind usually known as
slingshot, bowie knife, dirk knife, switchblade knife, spring type knife, knife
having a blade which opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button,
spring or other device in the handle of the knife, loaded cane, billy, metal
knuckles, or any other offensive or defensive weapon.
   (B)   Selling weapons and dangerous articles to minors.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, barter, give or furnish to
any minor, any blank or loaded cartridges, or any pistol, revolver, toy, or
other thing made for the purpose of exploding any blank or loaded cartridges.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, barter, give or furnish to
any minor any pistol, revolver, dirk, bowie knife, metal knucks or other
dangerous or deadly weapon.
   (C)   Discharging weapons; throwing missiles. It is unlawful for any person
to discharge or fire any species of firearms, air pistol, air rifle, air gun,
slingshot or discharge a hand grenade, bomb or similar device, or other weapon,
or throw any missile within the city, except when necessary for the protection
of life or property in accordance with law.
   (D)   Reckless conduct. It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless
conduct while having in his or her possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol,
such actions consisting of creating a situation of unreasonable risk and
probability of death or great bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a
conscious disregard for the safety of another person.
(Prior Code, § 5-2C-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.04 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   Loud noise or music; amplified sound. It is unlawful for any person to
disturb the peace and quietude of any part of the city by operating, having
operated, or permitting to be operated, any contrivance, whether electric or
not, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music,
noise or words. This section shall not prohibit religious bodies from playing
chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music.
   (B)   Unnecessary noises enumerated. It is unlawful for any person to create
any loud or unnecessary noises of such character, intensity or duration as to
be detrimental, or disturbing to the peace, lives or health of any individual.
The following acts, among others, are determined to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this section, which enumerations shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   Horns, signal devices. The sounding of a horn or signal device on
any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as
a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control;
or, if in motion, only as a danger signal after, or as brakes are being applied
and declaration of the vehicle is intended; or the creation by means of any
such signal devices of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound, and the sounding
of any such devices for any unreasonable or unnecessary period of time;
      (2)   Radio, musical instrument. Playing of any radio, phonograph or any
other musical instrument in such manner, or in such volume, particularly during
the hours between 11:00 p.m., and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet,
comfort or repose of the persons in any dwelling, hotel or other type of
residence;
      (3)   Animals; barking, other noises. To own, keep, have in his or her
possession, or harbor, any animal which by frequent, or habitual howling,
yelping, barking or otherwise shall cause serious annoyance to persons or to
the neighborhood;
      (4)   Noisy vehicles. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so
out of repair, so loaded, or operated in such a manner as to create a loud or
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (5)   Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, except
through a muffler or other devices, which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
      (6)   Compressed air devices. The use of any mechanical devices operated
by compressed air, unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and
reduced;
      (7)   Near schools, hospitals. The creation of any excessive noises on
any street adjacent to any school, institutions of learning, or court, while
the same is in session, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably
interferes with the working of such institution, provided conspicuous signs are
displayed on such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital or
court street;
      (8)   Loading or unloading vehicles. The creation of any loud or
excessive noises in connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle, or
the opening and distribution of any bales, boxes, crates and containers;
      (9)   Peddlers shouting. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and
vendors which disturb the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (10)   Handling trash containers. To make unnecessary noises in the
handling of ashes, trash and garbage cans either in loading or unloading, and
whether full or empty;
      (11)   Transporting iron, metals. The transporting of rails, pillars and
columns of iron, steel, casing or tubing, or other metals over and along the
streets of the city, upon carts, drays, cars, or in any other manner, so loaded
as to cause loud noises to disturb the peace and quiet; and
      (12)   Automatic piano, musical instruments. The use or operation of any
automatic, or electrical piano, phonograph, gramophone, radio, victrola,
loudspeakers, or any musical instrument, or any instrument of sound producing,
or sound amplifying, or like character, so loudly as to disturb persons in the
vicinity thereof, or in such a manner as to render the same a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5-2C-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.05 POLITICAL ADVERTISING ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      POLITICAL ADVERTISING SIGN. Any sign, poster or placard printed, painted,
made or designed for the purpose of furthering or advertising the candidacy of
any person who is or intends to become or may be a candidate for the election
to any public office, whether such public office be in the local, state or
federal government, or any subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Utility easement. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to erect or display any advertising sign or advertising of any other character
upon any public utility easement within the city.
   (C)   Public utility poles. No person, firm or corporation shall place,
tack, nail, staple or glue any advertising sign on any telephone, telegraph,
electric or street lighting pole within the city.
   (D)   Signs placed illegally. Any advertising sign erected, placed or
displayed in violation of the provisions hereof shall be a public nuisance. No
property right shall exist in such sign erected, placed or displayed in
violation of the provisions hereof, and such sign may be removed and destroyed
by any person.
(Prior Code, § 5-2C-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Public intoxication and drinking
   
133.02   Drug related offenses
   
133.03   Prostitution
   
133.04   Disorderly house
   
133.05   Obscenity; indecent acts
   
133.06   Sleeping on streets; public or private property
   
133.07   Begging
   
133.08   Gambling
   
133.09   Harmful deception
   
133.10   False or bogus checks
   
133.11   Obstructing use of streets, sidewalks
   
133.12   Unattended children or vulnerable adults left in vehicles
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      STATE OF INTOXICATION. The condition in which a person is under the
influence of any intoxicating, nonintoxicating, spirituous, vinous or malt
liquors, or of any narcotic, to such extent as to deprive the person of his or
her full physical or mental power.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any
street, alley or other public place in the city in a state of intoxication.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating liquor or low
point beer upon or in any street, alley or other public place within the city.
      (3)   It is unlawful to use, sell or furnish to another any illegal drug
or narcotic in any place in the city except as legally prescribed by a
physician.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 DRUG RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   Marijuana prohibited.
      (1)   Generally. It is unlawful for any person:
         (a)   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business
or other public place while under the influence of marijuana;
         (b)   To use, have or possess marijuana upon or in any street, alley,
place of business or other public place within the city;
         (c)   To use marijuana in any place within the city except as legally
prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the state; or
         (d)   To be about a place where marijuana is sold or furnished
illegally.
      (2)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         MARIJUANA. As defined by 63 O.S. § 2-101. MARIJUANA means all parts of
the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the
resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin but
shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such
stalks, oil or cake made from the derivative, mixture or preparation of such
mature stalks (except resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
   (B)   Drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use, or designed for use, in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation
of the State Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, 63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et
seq., hereinafter referred to as “the Act”, and adopted by reference herein. It
includes, but is not limited to, those equipment, products and materials
specified in 63 O.S. § 2-101.1 on drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   Prohibited acts.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent
to use, drug paraphernalia, to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Act.
         (b)   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to
deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or
under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Act.
         (c)   It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper,
magazine, handbill or other publication any advertisement, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed
or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (C)   Pseudoephedrine.
      (1)   Purpose. The Council of the city has found the manufacture,
transportation, possession and sale of methamphetamine and the by-products and
wastes of methamphetamine production are inherently dangerous and injurious to
the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city. Regulation
of the sale of the chemical precursors to methamphetamine production, such as
ephedrine products and pseudoephedrine products, is necessary to protect the
citizens of the city.
      (2)   Prohibition of sale/distribution of methamphetamine precursor
drugs.
         (a)   It shall be illegal for any person to sell, deliver or
distribute any ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, their salts, their optical isomers
or salts of their optical isomers, without a valid prescription issued by a
duly licensed physician or supervised physician’s assistant and filled by an
Oklahoma licensed pharmacist or pharmacy technician.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (C) shall prohibit the distribution of
ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, their salts, their optical isomers or salts of
their optical isomers by an Oklahoma licensed physician or physician’s
assistant within the physician’s office, or any clinic, nursing home or other
properly licensed healthcare facility upon the orders of said authority.
         (c)   No prescription issued pursuant to this division (C) shall be
filled or refilled more than six months after the date such prescription was
issued, and no such prescription authorized to be refilled may be refilled more
than five times.
      (3)   Application. This division (C) shall not apply to any ephedrine,
pseudoephedrine, compounds, mixtures or preparations, which are in liquid,
liquid capsule or gel capsule form.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-2) (Ord. 743, passed 5-3-2011) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR LEWDNESS. The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of
lewdness or allowing the continued use of the premises with that knowledge.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION. The granting of the right of use or
the leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice
of prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
      SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES. The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be a prostitute;
      (2)   Solicit, entice or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      (3)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      (4)   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      (5)   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution;
      (6)   Accept or receive the proceeds of any act of prostitution; or
      (7)   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of
prostitution in the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-3) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   Definition; prohibited acts. For the purpose of this section, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      DISORDERLY HOUSE. Any structure or vehicle by which the peace, comfort,
health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the people
therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
         (a)   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
         (b)   The violation of any of the ordinances of the city or statutes
of the state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
         (c)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state
statute or city ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for
purposes of prostitution; or
         (d)   The violation of any state statute or city ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
   (B)   Maintaining house. No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or
assist in keeping and maintaining a disorderly house.
   (C)   Allowing use as house. No owner, lessee, lessor or other person,
partnership or corporation having control over any house, building, structure,
tent, vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease,
sublease or otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein
any disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle is so occupied as
a disorderly house, no person, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
   (D)   Knowingly residing in house. No person shall knowingly reside in,
enter into or remain in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of
this section, the city shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct
evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply
to physicians or officers in the discharge of their professional or official
duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-4) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 OBSCENITY; INDECENT ACTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
      DISSEMINATE. To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
      KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
      MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written
material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area
with less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male
genitals in a discernible turgid state.
      OBSCENE. To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
         (a)   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest; i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity
or excretion;
         (b)   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by 21 O.S.; and
         (c)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
      PERFORMANCE. Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other
exhibition performed before an audience.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
      PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
      SERVICE TO PATRONS. The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages; including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bar tending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining.
   (B)   Prohibited obscene conduct. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Knowingly disseminate, distribute or make available to the public
any obscene material;
      (2)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
      (3)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
      (4)   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         (a)   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
         (b)   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
         (c)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
or
         (d)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
   (C)   Nudity; improper dress; indecent exposure.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Appear in any public place in the city in a state of nudity;
         (b)   Appear in any public place in the city in any offensive,
indecent or lewd dress; or
         (c)   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to procure, counsel or assist any
person to commit any of the acts in this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-5) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 SLEEPING ON STREETS; PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of 12:00 midnight and
sunrise, to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on any property
of another without the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in
charge of such place.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-6) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 BEGGING.
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-7) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation,
or agent or employee thereof, to do any of the following:
      (1)   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on or
conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
      (2)   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
      (3)   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
      (4)   To knowingly permit his, her or its premises, houses, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
   (B)   Gambling devices. It is unlawful and an offense against the city for
any person to play any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or
machine wherein the element of chance is involved by losing or winning money,
credits, checks or any other representatives of value.
   (C)   Exception, bingo. Excepted from the provisions of this section is any
bingo game established and conducted lawfully in accordance with applicable
state law, including 3A O.S. §§ 401 et seq.
   (D)   Loitering about gambling place. It is unlawful for any person to
loiter about in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling,
whether by playing games, operating a slot machine or other device, or
otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-8) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-9) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.10 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain
or attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money, property
or valuable thing of the value of $50 or less by means of any false or bogus
check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument or spurious
coin. The term FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK shall include checks or orders given for
money or property which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the
maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer thereof. The making, drawing,
issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order, payment of which is refused
by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of intent to defraud and the
knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with, such bank or other
depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the drawee the amount due
thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or order shall be
presented for payment within 30 days after same is delivered and accepted.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-10) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.11 OBSTRUCTING USE OF STREETS, SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians;
or
      (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting
on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public
place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress,
egress, and regress, therein, thereon and thereto.
   (B)   Order to disperse. When any person causes or commits any of the
conditions enumerated in division (A) of this section, a police officer or any
law enforcement officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing
such conditions and to move on or disperse. Any person who fails or refuses to
obey such orders shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-11) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.12 UNATTENDED CHILDREN OR VULNERABLE ADULTS LEFT IN VEHICLES.
   The City Council, meeting in regular session on March 20, 2012, hereby
adopts 47 O.S. § 11-1119, commonly referred to as the Forget-Me-Not Vehicle
Safety Act and provides for fines as set forth by statute. This provision in
said Chapter 11, Rules of the Road, shall be enforced as other traffic offenses
adopted by reference from state offenses rules of the road in 47 O.S. Chapter
11.
   (A)   As used in the Forget-Me-Not Vehicle Safety Act:
      MOTOR VEHICLE. The same as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-134.
      PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR A CHILD. A custodial parent or legal guardian of a
child, or a person who has been directed or authorized to supervise a child by
that child’s custodial parent or legal guardian.
      UNATTENDED. Beyond a person’s direct ability to care for or come to the
aid of the unaccompanied person.
   (B)   A person responsible for a child who is six years of age or younger,
or a caretaker of a vulnerable adult as defined by 43A O.S. § 10-103, shall not
leave that child or vulnerable adult unattended in a motor vehicle if the
conditions, including, but not limited to, extreme weather, inadequate
ventilation, or hazardous or malfunctioning components within the vehicle
present a risk to the health or safety of the unattended child or vulnerable
adult.
   (C)   It shall not be considered a violation of this section if the child or
vulnerable adult is accompanied in the motor vehicle by a person at least 12
years of age who is not mentally incompetent as defined by 43A O.S. § 1-103.
   (D)   Nothing in this section precludes prosecution under any other
provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-12) (Ord. 746, passed 3-20-2012) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
130.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §
133.02 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 and costs, or
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both such fine and costs and
imprisonment. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each delivery,
sale or distribution transaction.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-2)
   (C)   (1)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
133.12 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by:
         (a)   A fine of not less than $50 upon a first conviction;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $100 and ordered to perform community
service of not less than 50 hours upon a second conviction; and
         (c)   A fine of not less than $200 upon a third or subsequent
conviction, and the full record of that person’s convictions of the violations
of this section shall be submitted to the Department of Human Services for
evaluation.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
133.12 who has left a child or vulnerable adult unattended in a motor vehicle
on the premises of any establishment which holds any license for the sale of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises pursuant to 37A O.S., and
who has consumed any alcoholic beverage during the period of time the child or
vulnerable adult has been unattended, shall be punished by a fine of not less
than $500.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-12)
(Ord. 743, passed 5-3-2011; Ord. 746, passed 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
134.01   Assault and battery
   
134.02   Lawful use of force
§ 134.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence
to do a corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-2E-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 LAWFUL USE OF FORCE.
   To use or to attempt to offer to use force upon or toward the person of
another is not unlawful in the city in the following cases:
   (A)   When necessarily committed by a public officer in the performance of
any legal duty, or by any other person assisting him or her or acting by his or
her direction;
   (B)   When necessarily committed by any person in arresting one who has
committed any felony, and delivering him or her to a public officer competent
to receive him or her in custody;
   (C)   When committed either by the party about to be injured, or by any
other person in his or her aid or defense, in preventing or attempting to
prevent an offense against his or her person, or any trespass or other unlawful
interference with real or personal property in his or her lawful possession;
provided, the force used is not more than sufficient to prevent such offense,
and that the same shall be necessary for the self-defense of his or her person
or property;
   (D)   When committed by a parent or authorized agent of any parent, or by
any guardian, master or teacher, in the exercise of a lawful authority to
restrain or correct his or her child, ward, apprentice or scholar, provided
restraint or correction has been rendered necessary by the misconduct of such
child, ward, apprentice or scholar, or by his or her refusal to obey the lawful
command of such parent or authorized agent or guardian, master or teacher, and
the force used is reasonable in manner and moderate in degree;
   (E)   When committed by a carrier of passengers, or the authorized agents or
servants of such carrier, or by any person assisting them at their request, in
expelling from any carriage, interurban car, vessel or other vehicle, any
passenger who refuses to obey a lawful and reasonable regulation prescribed for
the conduct of passengers, if such vehicle has first been stopped and the force
used is not more than is sufficient to expel the offending passenger, with a
reasonable regard to his or her personal safety; and
   (F)   When committed by any person in preventing a person who is impaired by
reason of mental retardation or developmental disability as defined by 10 O.S.
§ 1430.2, a mentally ill person, insane person or other person of unsound mind,
including persons temporarily or partially deprived of reason, from committing
an act dangerous to himself, herself or to another, or enforcing such restraint
as is necessary for the protection of his or her person or for his or her
restoration to health, during such period only as shall be necessary to obtain
legal authority for the restraint or custody of such person.
(Prior Code, § 5-2E-2)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
135.01   Resisting police officer
   
135.02   Refusing or failing to assist officer
   
135.03   Assault or battery upon police
   
135.04   Offenses relating to prisoners
   
135.05   Impersonating officer or employee
   
135.06   False alarms, representation
   
135.07   Removal of barricades
   
135.08   Resisting public officials
   
135.09   Eluding police officer
§ 135.01 RESISTING POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OBSTRUCTION OF. In addition to their common meaning, shall include:
         (a)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him or her and after notice is given that he or she is under
arrest;
         (b)   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he or she is under arrest; or
         (c)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his or her name and make
his or her identity known to the arresting officer.
      RESISTING AN OFFICER. The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his or her official capacity, and
authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve
any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to
know that the person arresting, seizing property or serving process is acting
in his or her official capacity.
   (B)   Resisting. It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or in any way
interfere with the Police Chief, police officer or any person duly authorized
to act as such, while the officer or person is discharging or attempting to
discharge his or her official duties within the limits of the city.
   (C)   Signaling others. It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal
another so as to assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer
seeking to make an arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier
in the face of or in front of an approaching officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-2F-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.02 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   (A)   Authority to request aid. An officer of the city making or about to
make an arrest, or executing or about to execute a warrant or other process, in
accordance with the ordinances of the city or with state or federal law, or
suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call
upon person or persons to assist him or her in making such arrest, executing
such process or suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   Failure to assist. It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon
thus to assist an officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-2F-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.03 ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE.
   It is unlawful for any person, without justifiable or excusable cause, to
knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault and battery upon the person of
a police officer or other officer of the law while in the performance of his or
her duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-2F-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.04 OFFENSES RELATING TO PRISONERS.
   (A)   Rescuing prisoners.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, by use of force or in any other
illegal manner, to set at liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty, any
prisoner from any officer or employee of the city having legal custody of such
prisoner or from the city jail or other place of confinement by the city.
      (2)   It is unlawful to assist such prisoner in any manner to escape from
such prison or custody either before or after conviction, including escape from
a vehicle of confinement.
   (B)   Escape of prisoners. It is unlawful for any person confined in the
city jail or other place of confinement by the city, or working upon the
streets or other public places of the city in pursuance of any judgment, or
otherwise held in legal custody by authority of the city, to break or attempt
to break from any such jail, prison or custody, or to escape or attempt to
escape therefrom.
   (C)   Assisting escape of prisoners.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, by use of force or in any other
illegal manner, to set at liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty or
rescue, any prisoner from any officer or employee of the city having legal
custody of such prisoner or from the city jail or other place of confinement by
the city.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to convey into the city jail or other
city prison any instrument or other thing useful to facilitate the escape of
any prisoner therein, or to give any such instrument or thing to a prisoner in
custody or in prison, whether such escape is effected or attempted or not.
   (D)   Unlawful communication with prisoners. It is unlawful for any person
to loiter about the city jail or any other city prison with intent to
communicate unlawfully with any prisoner confined therein, or to communicate or
attempt to communicate unlawfully with any prisoner confined in such jail or
prison or held in legal custody.
(Prior Code, § 5-2F-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.05 IMPERSONATING OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of the
city, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers
of an officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-2F-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.06 FALSE ALARMS, REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   False alarms. It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm
of any nature or in any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire
Department, Police Department, emergency medical services, or any officer or
employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, accident or
other emergency or knowingly to cause the Fire Department, Police Department,
emergency medical services, or its officers or employees to make a useless or
unnecessary run to any part of the city or outside the city.
   (B)   False representation to officer. It is unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation, or any agent or employee thereof, knowingly to make any
material misrepresentation to any officer, employee or agency of the city
government in any official application to, or official dealing or negotiation
with, such officer or agency; or to commit perjury before any tribunal or
officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-2F-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.07 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(Prior Code, § 5-2F-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.08 RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge, or any other officer or employee of the city in
the discharge of his or her official duties;
   (B)   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
   (C)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or
indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-2F-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.09 ELUDING POLICE OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual
and audible signal, a red light and a siren from a police officer driving a
motor vehicle showing the same to be an official police car, directing the
operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, and who willfully increases his
or her speed or extinguishes his or her lights in an attempt to elude such
police officer, or who does elude such police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-2F-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 136: REGULATIONS CONCERNING JUVENILES
Section
Tobacco Possession
   
136.01   Unlawful sale of tobacco or electronic cigarettes to persons under 18
   
136.02   Juvenile possession of tobacco products and electronic smoking devices
in certain places prohibited
Juvenile Curfew
   
136.15   Purpose and intent
   
136.16   Definitions
   
136.17   Offenses
   
136.18   Defenses
   
136.19   Enforcement
Gatherings Where Minors Are Consuming Alcoholic Beverages
   
136.30   Permitting or allowing gatherings where minors are consuming alcoholic
beverages
 
   
136.99   Penalty
TOBACCO POSSESSION
§ 136.01 UNLAWFUL SALE OF TOBACCO OR ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES TO PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner
any tobacco product or electronic cigarettes to another person who is under 21
years of age or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product or electronic
cigarettes on behalf of any such person. It shall not be unlawful for an
employee under 21 years of age to handle tobacco products or electronic
cigarettes when required in performance of the employee’s duties.
   (B)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products or
electronic cigarettes shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-13) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.02 JUVENILE POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES
IN CERTAIN PLACES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The possession by minors of lighted tobacco or electronic smoking
devices in any form is a public nuisance and dangerous to public health and is
hereby prohibited when such possession is in any municipal place used by or
open to the public, public transportation, or any indoor municipal workplace,
except where specifically allowed by state law.
   (B)   This prohibition includes:
      (1)   All buildings owned or operated by this city, shall be entirely
tobacco free to include all forms of tobacco products including electronic
smoking devices. It does not include incidental public access areas;
      (2)   All indoor recreational areas owned or operated by this city, shall
be entirely tobacco free to include all forms of tobacco products including
electronic smoking devices; and
      (3)   Any usage on municipal property within 200 feet of public schools
operating within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-14) (Ord. 835, passed 11-19-2013) Penalty, see §
136.99
JUVENILE CURFEW
§ 136.15 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to narrowly tailor the
restriction of late night activities of juveniles to the extent juvenile crime
is reduced and juveniles, as well as other citizens and their property, are
protected from harm;
   (B)   Juveniles are particularly vulnerable to the influences of persons who
do not have the best interest of the juvenile in mind, due to the inability of
juveniles to make important or critical decisions in an informed and mature
manner and to avoid choices which could be detrimental to their health, safety
and welfare;
   (C)   A concern has arisen in the community that certain activities by
juveniles and adults, during the late night hours, endanger the health, safety
and welfare of other persons and their property;
   (D)   The city does not desire to interfere with parent-child or parent-
juvenile relationships or the parental right to raise their children, or
juveniles;
   (E)   While the city recognizes parents and/or responsible adults need wide
latitude in supervising their children, the city desires to protect juveniles
from nocturnal dangers, enhance parental supervision and responsibility; and
   (F)   The public purpose of this chapter is to protect juveniles from
nocturnal dangers, enhance parental supervision and responsibility for
juveniles and protect the public at large.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1) (Ord. 579, passed 9-20-1994, eff. 9-20-1994)
§ 136.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS. Curfew hours shall be as follows:
      (1)   In park areas after 9:30 p.m. until 5:00 a.m. the next day in
Stroup Park, including the tennis, skateboard and basketball adjacent areas;
      (2)   11:01 p.m. until 5:00 a.m. the next day on any Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday; and
      (3)   1:01 a.m. until 5:00 a.m. on any Saturday and Sunday.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances, or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, natural disaster, automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place to which the public is invited, but
not limited to, any place of amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
juvenile; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a juvenile has been placed by
a court.
   JUVENILE. Any person 17 years of age, or under 17 years of age.
   KNOWING PERMIT. The parent, other responsible adult and/or operator as
defined herein is aware of the fact the juvenile is in violation of the curfew
hours or that said person, by exercise of reasonable care, would have known
that the juvenile is in violation of the curfew hours.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation or manager thereof.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent of
another person.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
common areas of schools, apartment houses, office buildings, hospitals,
transport facilities and retail establishments.
   REMAIN. To:
      (1)   Linger or stay; or
      (2)   Fail to leave premises when requested by a police officer, or the
owner, operator or authorized person in control of the premises.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. Any person having, assuming or charged with permanent
and/or temporary care and/or custody of a juvenile, including, but not limited
to:
      (1)   Any legal guardian or adult exercising legal guardianship over a
juvenile;
      (2)   An adult who stands in loco parentis to a juvenile;
      (3)   Any person to whom legal custody of a juvenile has been given by
order of the court;
      (4)   Any adult who has, assumes or is charged with the care and/or
custody of a juvenile at the request of, or on behalf of, a parent, guardian,
loco parentis or person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court; or
      (5)   Any adult who has, assumes or is charged with the care and/or
custody of a juvenile at the request of, or on behalf of, another parent.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2) (Ord. 579, passed 9-20-1994, eff. 9-20-1994; Ord. 741,
passed 7-20-2010)
§ 136.17 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Juvenile offense. A juvenile commits an offense if he or she remains
in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the
corporate limits of the city during curfew hours.
   (B)   Parental offense. A parent and/or responsible adult of a juvenile
commits an offense if:
      (1)   He or she knowingly permits or allows the juvenile to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the corporate city
limits during curfew hours; and
      (2)   The parent and/or responsible adult of a juvenile has previously
been cited so as to knowingly permit or allow a juvenile to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the corporate city
limits during curfew hours. Every subsequent violation thereof will constitute
a separate violation.
   (C)   Offense by business establishment. The owner, operator, manager or any
employee of an establishment commits an offense if he or she knowingly permits
or allows a juvenile to remain upon the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) (Ord. 579, passed 9-20-1994, eff. 9-20-1994) Penalty, see
§
136.99
§ 136.18 DEFENSES.
   (A)   Juveniles. It is a defense to prosecution under §
136.17 of this chapter that the juvenile was at the time in question:
      (1)   Accompanied by the juvenile’s parent or responsible adult;
      (2)   Engaged in any lawful employment activity, or going to or returning
home from a lawful employment activity without any detour or stop;
      (3)   Involved in an emergency;
      (4)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (5)   Attending, going to or returning home without any detour or stop
from an official school, religious or other recreational activity supervised by
adults, or an event sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or any
recognized entity that takes responsibility for the juvenile;
      (6)   On an errand at the direction of the juvenile’s parents or
responsible adult, without any detour or stop;
      (7)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, or other rights protected by the United States or Oklahoma
Constitution; or
      (8)   Married, or had been married.
   (B)   Owner or operator of establishment. It is a defense to prosecution
under §
136.17(C) of this chapter that the owner, operator or the employee of an
establishment promptly notified the Police Department that a juvenile was
present on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to
leave.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4) (Ord. 579, passed 9-20-1994, eff. 9-20-1994)
§ 136.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Police officers. Before taking any enforcement action under this
section, a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s reason for being in
the public place. The police officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and, based on circumstances, no defense under §
136.18 of this chapter is present.
   (B)   Court action. Absent an interlocal agreement with the district court,
for the Municipal Court to exercise jurisdiction over juveniles under 17 years
of age under §
136.17 of this chapter pursuant to 10 O.S. § 2-2-102(E), as amended by HB 2640
of the 1994 regular session of the Oklahoma Legislature, the Municipal Court
must refer all alleged juvenile violations to the Juvenile Bureau of the
District Attorney’s office.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5) (Ord. 579, passed 9-20-1994, eff. 9-20-1994)
GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS ARE CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 136.30 PERMITTING OR ALLOWING GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS ARE CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and
every liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine or beer, and
which contains 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage
purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.
This term includes intoxicating beverages and low point beer as defined herein.
      GATHERING. A party, gathering or event, where a group of three or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
      INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Includes beverages containing more than 3.2%
alcohol by weight.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
the court.
      LOW POINT BEER. Means and includes beverages containing more than 0.5%
alcohol by volume, and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, including, but not
limited to, beer or cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic
fermentation of an infusion of barley or other grain, malt or similar products.
      MINOR. Any person under 21 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent
or stepparent of another person.
      PREMISES. Any residence or other private property, place or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
      RESPONSE COSTS. The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement, fire
or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding
to, remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the administrative
costs attributable to such response(s);
         (b)   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering;
         (c)   The cost of repairing any city equipment or property damaged,
and the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at,
or leaving the scene of a gathering; and
         (d)   Any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this
section.
   (B)   Consumption of alcohol by minor in public place, place open to public,
or place not open to public. Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful
for any minor to:
      (1)   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public
alcoholic beverage; or
      (2)   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   (C)   Hosting, permitting or allowing a party, gathering, or event where
minors consuming alcoholic beverages prohibited.
      (1)   Host responsibility.
         (a)   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting driver’s licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
         (b)   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section.
      (2)   Conduct between minor and parent. This section shall not apply to
conduct involving the use of alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively
between a minor and his or her parent or legal guardian.
      (3)   Family activity. Nothing in this section should be interpreted to
prohibit any family activity held in the confines of the family home from
providing the use of alcohol to immediate family members within supervision of
parents and guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering
intoxicated and is found in public then said providers of alcohol will be held
responsible in the same manner as a non-family gathering.
      (4)   Religious practice. Nothing in this section should be interpreted
to prohibit any religious practice which includes use of alcohol. However, if a
minor leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found in public then
said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a non-
religious gathering.
      (5)   Licensed premises. This section shall not apply to any premises
licensed by the state of Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages.
      (6)   Reservation of legal options. Violations of this section may be
prosecuted by the city criminally, civilly and/or administratively as provided
by this code. The city may seek administrative fees and response costs
associated with enforcement of this section through all remedies or procedures
provided by statute, ordinance or law. This section shall not limit the
authority of peace officers or private citizens to make arrests for any
criminal offense arising out of conduct regulated by this section, nor shall
they limit the city’s ability to initiate and prosecute any criminal offense
arising out of the same circumstances necessitating the application of this
section.
      (7)   Local authority. This section shall not apply where prohibited or
preempted by state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1) (Ord. 732, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
130.99.
   (B)   Juvenile possession of tobacco products. Violation of §
136.02 constitutes a misdemeanor with a first offense of a fine of $10. A
second offense within 90 days shall be a fine of $50. A third offense within
180 days shall be a fine of $100.
(Prior Code, § 5-2D-14)
   (C)   Curfew.
      (1)   Penalty imposed. A person who violates a provision of §§
136.15 through
136.19 is guilty of a separate offense for each day, or part of a day, during
which the violation is committed, continued or permitted. Each offense, upon
conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $250, plus costs. The court
may require community service work in lieu of a fine if the product of
multiplying the number of hours of community service work by the prevailing
wage does not result in a number which exceeds the maximum fine authorized by
law.
      (2)   Subject to state statute. The municipal court’s jurisdiction over a
juvenile who violates §
136.17 of this chapter shall be expressly subject to 10 O.S., as amended by HB
2640 of the 1994 regular session of the Oklahoma Legislature.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6)
   (D)   Permitting or allowing gatherings where minors are consuming alcoholic
beverages. Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
136.30 shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the city and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished for violation of a misdemeanor offense,
with fine of $500, or by imprisonment not exceeding 60 days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment, plus all court costs and statutory penalties as set
forth in §
10.99(B)(2)and (B)(3) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1)
(Ord. 579, passed 9-20-1994, eff. 9-20-1994; Ord. 732, passed 10-21-2008; Ord.
835, passed 11-19-2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
152.   AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING REGULATIONS
      
153.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
      
154.   MOBILE HOME PARKS AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
      
155.   PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS DRILLING
      
156.   FLOOD CONTROL
      
157.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
158.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
159.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code and Regulations
   
150.001   Building Code adopted
   
150.002   Additions and changes to Building Code
   
150.003   City Inspector
   
150.004   Fire limits
   
150.005   Building permit required; fee
   
150.006   Fees retained by city
   
150.007   Wood shingles permitted outside fire limits
   
150.008   Smoke alarms required in certain buildings
   
150.009   Awnings and signs
   
150.010   Use of street for building materials; permit
Plumbing Code and Regulations
   
150.025   Plumbing Code
   
150.026   Additions and changes to Plumbing Code
   
150.027   Contractor’s proof of state bond or deposit
   
150.028   Plumber’s registration; fee
   
150.029   State plumbing permit required
   
150.030   Street openings
   
150.031   Cross connections; backflow
   
150.032   Acceptable materials, plastic pipe
Electrical Code and Regulations
   
150.045   Electrical equipment defined
   
150.046   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.047   Electricians; registration required
   
150.048   Contractor’s proof of state bond or deposit
   
150.049   Exception to certificate or bond requirement
   
150.050   Permit required for electrical installations; fee
   
150.051   Inspection; fee
   
150.052   Standards
   
150.053   Failure to comply
Residential Code
   
150.065   Residential Code adopted
   
150.066   Additions and changes to Residential Code
   
150.067   Housing Board of Appeals
Fire Code and Regulations
   
150.080   Fire Code adopted
   
150.081   Additions and changes to Fire Code
   
150.082   Storage of flammables and explosives; prohibited area
   
150.083   Capacity and number of tanks for gasoline
   
150.084   Capacity of trucks
   
150.085   Modifications
   
150.086   New materials, processes or occupancies; permits
   
150.087   Appeals
Gas Regulations
   
150.100   Fuel Gas Code adopted
   
150.101   Additions and changes to Fuel Gas Code
House Moving
   
150.115   Permit required; fee
   
150.116   Application for permit
   
150.117   Bond required
   
150.118   Passageway for vehicles during moving process
   
150.119   Caution lights
   
150.120   Protection of trees and overhead structures
   
150.121   Guard against danger
   
150.122   Limit size of building
   
150.123   Time limit; late fee
   
150.124   Notice to Fire and Police Departments
   
150.125   Liability
House Numbers
   
150.140   Numbering required
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.001 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. The 2018 International Building Code (IBC) and the 2018
International Existing Building Code (IEBC) developed by ICC is hereby adopted
as the Building Code of the city for the control of buildings and structures as
therein provided. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the IBC are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated
and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this code with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this subchapter.
   (B)   Effective date. The IBC and IEBC shall become effective in the city on
February 1, 2022.
   (C)   Copy on file. One copy of the IBC and IEBC shall be on file in the
office of the City Clerk for public use, inspection and examination.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 853, passed 12-20-2016; Ord. 878, passed 1-21-2022)
§ 150.002 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO BUILDING CODE.
   The following sections of the IBC are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1, insert: “city of Holdenville”.
   Section 109.2.1, insert:
   “The fee schedule shall be in accordance with the city code, or as may be
set or amended by motion or resolution”.
   Section 114.4, insert at the end:
   “in §
10.99 of the city code”.
   Section 1612.3, insert: “city of Holdenville”.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 853, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 150.003 CITY INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor, with consent of the City Council, shall
appoint the city inspector. The city inspector may also hold other positions in
the city government.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The city inspector shall have the powers and duties
prescribed for the city inspector by this code and the building code. His or
her powers and duties may be exercised by his or her authorized representatives
under his or her supervision and control.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3)
§ 150.004 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   The fire limits of the city are established as follows: Blocks 34,
except Lots one and two; 44, 53, 68, 79, 80, 67, 54, 43; Lots four, five and
six in Blocks 35, 55, 66, in original townsite of the city.
   (B)   The fire limits of the city are included within the current city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4)
§ 150.005 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Permit required. No building or other structure shall be built,
enlarged, altered or moved without a building permit issued by the City Clerk
as follows:
      (1)   Whenever changes to a building or other structure alter the outside
appearance;
      (2)   Whenever changes will amount to more than $3,000 in cost; and
      (3)   Whenever a building or structure is to be moved from without the
city to a location within the city or from one location in the city to another
location within the city.
   (B)   Application for permit; information.
      (1)   Permit required. No person, firm, corporation, partnership,
association or any other legal entity shall construct, locate or relocate
mobile homes or construct, or cause to be constructed, any structure or
substantial improvement (a SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is an improvement other than
routine maintenance and repair and an improvement greater than $1,000) to any
structure (residential, industrial, commercial or otherwise) without first
obtaining a permit to construct or relocate the same from the town building
code officer.
      (2)   Exemption from permit. Any building construction started before the
effective date hereof shall be exempt from the building permit requirements
hereof. For purposes of this division (B), building construction shall be
considered as started on all buildings where the foundation footings have been
dug.
      (3)   Application must be filed. No building permit shall be issued until
the applicant files an application stating the location, type and size of the
structure to be erected, constructed, repaired or relocated, and attach thereto
a plan in duplicate.
      (4)   Application contents. All applications for building permits shall
be provided in duplicate, drawn to scale and showing exact dimensions of all
lots, buildings and structures. Said plan shall depict to scale the lot lines,
floor plan, lowest floor elevation (including basement), location of building
on the lot, setback lines, easements, rights-of-way, north arrow, scale,
existing and/or proposed uses, number of dwelling units and lot areas, and such
other information as the building code officer may require shall be furnished.
The town building code officer shall review this permit application and approve
or disapprove the permit within five working days. One copy of the plans shall
be returned to the applicant by the administrative officials. After they have
marked such copy, either as approved or disapproved and attested to same by
their signature on such copy, one copy of the plans similarly marked shall be
retained by the administrative officials.
      (5)   Preparation of plans. New nonresidential, new commercial and
commercial building additions require plans prepared by a design professional
licensed in the state and bearing the professional’s statutory stamp and
signature.
      (6)   Filing of application. All applications for building permits shall
be considered filed with the building code officer by the filing of the same
with the City Clerk who shall deliver such applications to the Building Code
officer. No permit shall issue by the City Clerk without express approval by
the Building Code officer.
   (C)   Issuance of permit; fee schedule. If the application is in accordance
with the requirements of the ordinances and laws, the City Clerk shall issue
the permit upon the payment by the applicant of a building permit fee which may
be set by motion or resolution of the City Council. A current copy of the fee
schedule shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 744A, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 150.006 FEES RETAINED BY CITY.
   All fees collected for building inspection and building permits, and for all
other inspections and permits, shall be collected and paid to the City Clerk
and shall belong to the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6)
§ 150.007 WOOD SHINGLES PERMITTED OUTSIDE FIRE LIMITS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of the building code, wood shingles may be
used outside of the fire limits for roofing on dwellings and on buildings
accessory to dwellings, such as private garages and barns.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.008 SMOKE ALARMS REQUIRED IN CERTAIN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Multi-unit buildings.
      (1)   All multi-unit buildings within the city limits shall be equipped,
at the expense of the owner of such building, with such smoke alarms and fire
prevention equipment as shall be prescribed by the laws of the state.
      (2)   If such equipment is not required by law, then in that event, the
owner of any multi-unit building in the city shall be required to provide one
smoke alarm device for each unit contained in the building.
   (B)   Applicability of section. This section shall apply to both new and
existing structures located within the city limits. Multi-unit buildings now
under construction and those units built after April 6, 1982, shall comply with
the requirements made hereunder prior to the opening of the building for use or
occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.009 AWNINGS AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Awnings.
      (1)   All awnings within the fire limits of the city shall have metal
supports from above with frames made of either iron, aluminum or wood, with
cloth, canvas, corrugated iron or other metal covering. The lower part of such
covering where it extends across or over the sidewalk shall be at least seven
feet above the same. No such awning shall exceed eight feet in width.
      (2)   If any awning within the fire limits of the city shall, by reason
of its construction or use or from decay or any other cause, be reported to be
dangerous or unsafe so as to endanger life, limb or property, it shall be the
duty of the city inspector to immediately inspect such awning or structure, and
if he or she deems the same dangerous and unsafe, he or she shall cause the
same to be made safe, removed or destroyed in the same manner and according to
the same procedure provided by the code relating to unsafe structures.
   (B)   Signs over sidewalks. It is unlawful for any person to erect or
maintain within the fire limits any sign or other structure for advertising
purposes over or across any sidewalk in the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-9) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.010 USE OF STREET FOR BUILDING MATERIALS; PERMIT.
   The City Council may grant a special permit to any person desiring to erect
or repair any building within the corporate limits of the city to use not
exceeding one-half of the street immediately in front of the lot or lots upon
which such building is to be erected or repaired for a reasonable time for the
purpose of depositing building material thereon.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-10)
PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.025 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The 2018 International Plumbing Code (IPC) developed by ICC
is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the city for the control of buildings
and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the IPC are hereby referred to,
adopted, incorporated and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this code
with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in
this subchapter.
   (B)   Effective date. The IPC shall become effective in the city on February
1, 2022.
   (C)   Copy on file. One copy of the IPC shall be on file in the office of
the City Clerk for public use, inspection and examination.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 881, passed 1-21-2022)
§ 150.026 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO PLUMBING CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   Section 100.1, insert: “city of Holdenville”.
   Section 106.6.2, replace with:
   “The fees for all plumbing work shall be as provided in the city’s code of
ordinances or as set by the council by motion or resolution.”
   Section 108.4, replace with:
   “Any person who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter
or repair plumbing work in violation of the approved construction documents or
directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the
provisions of this code, shall be guilty of an offense and punished as provided
in § 10.99 of the city code. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.”
   Section 108.5, insert at end:
   “Stop work order violations shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99 of the city code.”
   Section 305.6.1 (page 18, last line), insert:
   “a depth in feet as determined by the City Council”.
   Section 904.1 (page 71, second line), insert:
   “a height in feet as determined by the City Council”.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) (Ord. 853, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 150.027 CONTRACTOR’S PROOF OF STATE BOND OR DEPOSIT.
   In addition to the registration fee and before the registration certificate
for a plumbing contractor is issued, each plumbing contractor shall file with
the city a copy of such contractor’s state bond or documentation of cash or
certificate of deposit filed in lieu of the state bond.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3)
§ 150.028 PLUMBER’S REGISTRATION; FEE.
   (A)   Registration required. No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a journeyman plumber, a plumbing contractor or
a plumber’s apprentice unless he or she is registered as such with the city
inspector.
   (B)   Fees. The registration fees shall be paid to the City Clerk in such
sum as the Council may set by motion or resolution:
      (1)   For annual registration as a journeyman plumber;
      (2)   For annual registration as a plumbing contractor; and
      (3)   For annual registration as a plumber’s apprentice, no charge.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4)
§ 150.029 STATE PLUMBING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No plumbing work shall be undertaken within the city without a state permit
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5)
§ 150.030 STREET OPENINGS.
   (A)   Manner of performing work. All openings made in the public streets or
alleys to install plumbing must be made as carefully as possible, and all
materials excavated from the trenches shall be removed or placed where the
least inconvenience to the public will be caused.
   (B)   Replacing materials; cleanup of area. All openings must be replaced in
precisely the same condition as before the excavation started and all rubbish
and materials must be removed at once, leaving the street or sidewalks clean
and in perfect repair.
   (C)   Barriers, flares required. All openings shall be marked with
sufficient barriers. Flares or red lamps shall be maintained around the
openings at night and all other precautions shall be taken by the plumber or
excavator to protect the public from damage to person or property.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)
Cross-reference:
   Excavations, see §§
151.25 through
151.31
§ 150.031 CROSS CONNECTIONS; BACKFLOW.
   (A)   Discontinue water service as safety precaution. The City Water
Department and the city inspector are authorized to discontinue or cause to be
discontinued all water service or services to any and all premises, lands,
buildings or structures where it is found that an immediate hazard exists to
the purity or potability of the city water supply.
   (B)   Determination of hazardous conditions. The City Water Department and
the city inspector are authorized and directed to take such steps as necessary
to determine all potential hazards to the purity or potability of the city
water supply which exist. Upon determining the potential hazards it is the duty
of the Department and inspector to immediately cause notice to go to the owner
or such other person responsible for the premises, specifying the hazards, and
notifying the person that in the event that the hazard is not corrected within
30 days from the date of the notice, all water services shall be discontinued
thereafter until the requirements of this code have been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-7)
§ 150.032 ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, PLASTIC PIPE.
   (A)   Pipes. All pipe used for the installation, extension, alteration or
repair of any house gas piping shall be of standard weight and standard
dimension wrought iron or steel pipe, in buildings, and plastic pipe as
described under division (E) of this section, and such pipe shall either be new
or all such pipe shall be free from internal obstructions, splits or other
imperfections which would render it unfit for the purpose intended and the ends
thereof shall be properly reamed.
   (B)   Fittings. All fittings used in connection with the house gas piping
shall be of malleable iron. The use of cast iron fittings is prohibited.
Connections between metallic and plastic piping shall be made outside of
buildings, underground. When connecting plastic to a metallic riser, there
shall be a minimum 12 inch horizontal length of metallic pipe, underground, at
the end of any plastic piping installed, and such section of metallic piping
shall be suitably protected against corrosion. The metallic piping must be of
adequate length and size so that no stress or strain is placed on the plastic
piping. The connection between the metallic piping and the plastic piping shall
be a mechanical joint type, or plastic to steel transition fitting as
recommended by the plastic piping manufacturer.
   (C)   Joints. All joints between pipe and fittings, unless welded, shall be
screwer joints (American standard pipe thread). Such joints shall be made up
with white lead or other suitable thread compound.
   (D)   Unions. All unions used in house piping shall be ground joints types.
Right and left nipples and couplings are permissible.
   (E)   Plastic piping. Plastic piping must be buried underground for its
entire length, and may not be used within or under any building or slab, and
shall bear the ASTM D 2413.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-8) Penalty, see §
150.999
ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.045 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. Refers to electrical conductors, metallic raceways,
fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances, apparatus and any electrical material
of any nature, kind or description, to be installed within or on any building
or structure.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
§ 150.046 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal and maintenance of
electrical wiring and apparatus, including permits and penalties, that certain
Electrical Code known as the National Electrical Code of the National Board of
Fire Underwriters, being particularly the current edition thereof and the whole
thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or
amended, of which not less than one copy has been filed with the office of the
City Clerk. The same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein, and from the date on which this subchapter shall initially
take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction
and alteration within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2)
§ 150.047 ELECTRICIANS; REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Registration required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business, trade or vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or
apprentice electrician without registering and securing a certificate from the
city inspector.
   (B)   Fee. Before such certificate is issued, the fee as set by the Council
by motion or resolution shall be paid to the City Clerk:
      (1)   For electrical contractors;
      (2)   For journeyman electrician; and
      (3)   For apprentice electrician, no charge.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.048 CONTRACTOR’S PROOF OF STATE BOND OR DEPOSIT.
   Every person receiving a certificate as an electrical contractor from the
city shall file with the city a copy of such contractor’s state bond or
documentation of cash or certificate of deposit filed in lieu of the state
bond.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4)
§ 150.049 EXCEPTION TO CERTIFICATE OR BOND REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any individual desiring to perform his or her own electrical work
personally shall not be required to make the required bond or to obtain the
required certificate, but shall be required to obtain the regular permit for
that particular job.
   (B)   Such work done by an individual must be done by him or her personally
on his or her own particular job and not be a way of performing a service to
the public generally.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5)
§ 150.050 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS; FEE.
   (A)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to install any
electrical wiring, equipment, fixtures or apparatus in or on any building or
structure in the corporate limits of the city or make extensions to any
existing electrical installations without first securing a written permit from
the city.
   (B)   Application for permit; data required. Applications for electrical
permits shall be made to the City Clerk; and the applicant shall provide such
plans, specifications and other data as may be reasonably required. No permit
may be issued until the registration and bond requirements of this subchapter
are complied with.
   (C)   Permit fee. The fee for an electrical permit shall be as prescribed by
motion or resolution passed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.051 INSPECTION; FEE.
   (A)   Notify city for inspection. Upon the completion of the wiring,
installation or alteration of any building or structure for light, heat, power
appliance or apparatus, it is the duty of the person, firm or corporation
having direct charge of such to notify the city electrician who shall, as early
as possible, inspect such wiring, installation, appliance and apparatus. If
installed, altered and constructed in compliance with the permit and in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter, the inspector shall
execute a certificate of satisfactory inspection, which shall contain the date
of such inspection and the result of his or her examination. No such
certificate shall be issued unless such electric wiring, motors, heating
devices, appliances and apparatus be in strict accord with the rules and
requirements and the spirit of this subchapter, nor shall current be turned on
such installation, equipment, appliance, motors, heating device and apparatus
until the certificate be issued.
   (B)   Inspection fee. The City Council by motion or resolution may prescribe
an inspection fee to be paid to the city when electrical installations are
inspected by the city inspector.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7)
§ 150.052 STANDARDS.
   All electrical construction, all materials, appliances, motors, heating
devices and apparatus used in connection with electrical work and the operation
of all electrical apparatus within the city shall conform to the rules and
requirements of the National Electrical Code current when work is performed or
equipment and apparatus installed; however, the necessity, good service and the
results often require larger sizes of wire, more branch circuits and better
types of equipment than the minimum which is specified in the National
Electrical Code. Therefore, the city electrician supervising the enforcement of
this code will have the responsibility and authority for making interpretations
of the rules for deciding upon the approval of equipment, materials and
construction, and for granting the special permission contemplated in a number
of the rules and the city electrician, where necessary, shall follow the code
procedure for securing official interpretations of the code.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-8)
§ 150.053 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Refusal of permit; revocation of permit. Any person, firm or
corporation who shall fail to correct any defect or defects in his or her work
or to meet the required standards after having been given notice of the unfit
condition by the inspector, within a reasonable time, shall be refused any
other permit until such defect or defects have been corrected and shall be
subject to revocation of license for continual defective work or either upon
conviction for violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Disconnect electric current. Upon failure to comply with this
subchapter, the inspector shall have authority, after due notice, to cut out
electric current in the locality concerned.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-9) Penalty, see §
150.999
RESIDENTIAL CODE
§ 150.065 RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. A certain document, at least one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the 2009
International Residential Code (IRC) developed by ICC is hereby adopted as the
Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings of the city for the control
of buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the IRC are hereby
referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a part hereof as if fully set out
in this code with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in this subchapter.
   (B)   Effective date. The IRC shall take full force and effect on July 1,
1985.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1)
§ 150.066 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   Section R101.1, insert: “city of Holdenville”.
   Section R313.2, delete.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) (Ord. 853, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 150.067 HOUSING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Appointment; terms. There is hereby created a Board of Housing Appeals
which shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor subject to
confirmation of the City Council. Original appointments shall be: one member
shall be appointed to serve one year, two members to serve two years and two
members to serve three years. Subsequent appointments shall be for three years.
   (B)   Actions of Board: This Board shall act by majority vote of the members
present.
   (C)   Hold public hearings. The Board shall have the power and be required
to hold public hearings in deciding appeals where it is alleged there is an
error in law or fact in any order or decision of the city inspector in the
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3)
FIRE CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.080 FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. The 2018 International Fire Code (IFC) developed by ICC is
hereby adopted as the Fire Code regulating and governing the safeguarding of
life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage,
handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from
conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings and
premises as herein provided. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of the IFC are hereby referred to, adopted,
incorporated and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this code with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Effective date. The IFC shall become effective in the city on February
1, 2022.
   (C)   Copy on file. One copy of the IFC shall be on file in the office of
the City Clerk for public use, inspection and examination.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1) (Ord. 853, passed 12-20-2016; Ord. 879, passed 1-21-2022)
§ 150.081 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO FIRE CODE.
   The following sections of the IFC are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1, insert: “city of Holdenville”.
   Section 109.3, replace with:
   “Any person who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter,
repair or do work in violation of the approved construction documents or
directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the
provisions of this code, shall be guilty of an offense and punished as provided
in § 10.99 of the city code. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.”
   Section 111.4, insert at the end:
   “Stop work order violations shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99 of the city code.”
(Prior Code, § 9-5-2) (Ord. 853, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 150.082 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND EXPLOSIVES; PROHIBITED AREA.
   (A)   Flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks.
      (1)   The limits referred to in the Fire Code, in which storage of
flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, shall be the city
limits.
      (2)   The limits referred to in the Fire Code, in which new bulk plants
for flammable liquids are prohibited, shall be the city limits.
   (B)   Bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases.
      (1)   The limits referred to in the fire code, in which bulk storage of
liquefied petroleum has been prohibited, shall be the city limits.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to establish,
erect, construct or enlarge a plant or place of business where liquefied
petroleum gas is to be manufactured, distributed or hauled within the city.
   (C)   Explosives and blasting agents. The limits referred to in the Fire
Code, in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, shall
be the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-3)
§ 150.083 CAPACITY AND NUMBER OF TANKS FOR GASOLINE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to:
   (A)   Install, erect or construct a tank or tanks for the storage of
gasoline or other volatile substances for retail sale having a capacity of more
than 5,000 gallons each; and
   (B)   Install, erect or construct such storage tanks for the use by any one
retail service station where such installation, erection or construction will
increase the number of storage tanks at such service station to any figure in
excess of four or where such new construction, erection or installation will
increase the total capacity of all such storage tanks for such retail service
station to any amount in excess of 18,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-4) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.084 CAPACITY OF TRUCKS.
   No gasoline or other volatile substance shall be delivered by any wholesale
company, agent, jobber, person, firm or corporation to any service station
engaged in the retail sale of such product within the city in a truck, tank
wagon or transport with a total capacity of more than 8,500 gallons, unless
such service station has been especially equipped for the delivery and storage
of such products in larger quantities, in which event the total capacity of
such trucks, tank wagons or transports and storage facilities will be
increased.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-5)
§ 150.085 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, with the approval of the City Council,
shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the Fire Code upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized
agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the
strict letter of the code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall be
observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars
of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Fire Chief
and Council thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Council, and a
signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-6)
§ 150.086 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES; PERMITS.
   The Mayor and Chief of the Fire Department shall act as a committee to
determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be
heard, any new materials, processes, or occupancies, which shall require
permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the code. The Fire Chief shall
post such list in a conspicuous place in his or her office, and distribute
copies thereof to interested persons.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-7)
§ 150.087 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the City Council within 30 days
from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-8)
GAS REGULATIONS
§ 150.100 FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. The 2018 International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC) developed by ICC
is hereby adopted as the code of the city for regulating and governing fuel gas
systems and gas fired appliances as herein provided. Each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the IFGC are hereby
referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a part hereof as if fully set out
in this code with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in this subchapter.
   (B)   Effective date. The IFGC shall become effective in the city on
February 1, 2022.
   (C)   Copy on file. One copy of the IFGC shall be on file in the office of
the City Clerk for public use, inspection and examination.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-1) (Ord. 853, passed 12-20-2016; Ord. 880, passed 1-21-2022)
§ 150.101 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO FUEL GAS CODE.
   The following sections of the IFGC are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1, insert: “city of Holdenville”.
   Section 106.6.2, replace with:
   “The fee schedule shall be in accordance with the city code, or as may be
set or amended by motion or resolution”.
   Section 108.4, replace with:
   “Any person who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter,
repair work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of
the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of
this code, shall be guilty of an offense and punished as provided in § 10.99 of
the city code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense.”
   Section 108.5, insert at the end:
   “Stop work order violations shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99 of the city code”
(Prior Code, § 9-6-2) (Ord. 853, passed 12-20-2016)
HOUSE MOVING
§ 150.115 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Requirement; fee. It is unlawful for any person to move or cause to be
moved on the streets or alleys of the city any house, structure or building, or
part thereof, or any similar structure, without having first obtained from the
City Clerk a permit therefor. The applicant for a permit shall pay the City
Clerk the sum of $5 for each such permit, and shall deposit with the City Clerk
a good and sufficient bond as required in this subchapter.
   (B)   Compliance required. It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation,
partnership or individual to move or cause to be moved any house or building,
or part thereof, or any similar structure, on the streets or alleys of the city
without having first obtained such permit, paid such permit fee, and deposited
such bond with the City Clerk.
   (C)   Restrictions on issuance. The City Clerk shall not issue any permit on
any day which, according to the estimated number of days required to move the
building or structure when counted from the date of the permit, includes a
Sunday or legal holiday; provided, that this requirement shall apply where the
permit includes and provides that the persons moving such house shall begin on
the day of the permit. When a day is set on which the person moving the
building shall begin to move the same and the day is different from the date of
issuing the permit, then no permit shall be issued in such a way to include a
Sunday or holiday within the time allowed for moving the building. Where the
number of days shall exceed five, the provisions of this section shall not
apply.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-1) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.116 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The permit shall be obtained by making application therefor in writing, and
such written application shall recite the character of the thing or object to
be moved and transported along or through and upon the streets, avenues, the
proposed route of such transportation, and the place of or places where any
equipment used in effecting such transportation shall be placed and secured
shall be given.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-2)
§ 150.117 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Requirement. No permit shall be issued by the terms of this subchapter
until such time as the applicant therefor shall have deposited with the officer
issuing such permit, a cash bond in such sum as may be reasonably necessary to
protect the city and cover all loss from damage accruing to it or its citizens
by reason of any negligence or improper occupancy of the streets, sidewalks and
any and all property therein.
   (B)   Conditions of bond. Any negligence or improper occupancy of the
streets, sidewalks or other public places shall be provided against in the bond
and such bond shall be deposited upon the understanding that it is to cover all
of the conditions as set forth in this section.
   (C)   Bond amount. All such persons as described herein, engaged as
principals in the business herein described, shall file a surety or other
approved bond to be approved by the Mayor and Council in the sum of $2,000
conditioned that such person shall save, indemnify, and keep harmless the city
against any and all liabilities, judgments, damages, costs and expenses which
may in any way accrue against the city, in consequence of the granting of such
permit or while acting under the same, and will under all circumstances
strictly comply with the terms of such license and permit.
   (D)   Effect of bond requirement. Any such bond shall not be in any manner
affected by the fact of the cash deposit and bond required hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-3)
§ 150.118 PASSAGEWAY FOR VEHICLES DURING MOVING PROCESS.
   Any such person as referred to in §
150.115(A) of this chapter or his or her laborer, servant, agent or employee
shall cause a sufficient passageway to be kept open for vehicles to pass on one
side or both sides of any building, structure, edifice, object or thing, while
the same is being moved upon any street, avenue or alley, and when possible,
the same shall be kept moving each day unless the actual elements render this
impossible.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-4)
§ 150.119 CAUTION LIGHTS.
   It is the duty of the permittee to place warning lights plainly visible for
not less than 200 feet on each and every side of the building or structure
which is being moved at the close of day and to keep same burning throughout
the entire night and until one hour after sunrise on the morning following.
Such lights shall be so placed and maintained that the view of same will not be
in any sense obstructed. If necessary, as many additional lights as may be
necessary shall be placed at such other points on the building or structure as
will enable any person of reasonable and ordinary prudence to take notice of
the obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-5)
§ 150.120 PROTECTION OF TREES AND OVERHEAD STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Injuring trees, lines, poles prohibited. The person who may have a
permit to move a building or structure over any street within the city shall by
virtue of such permit and license derive no right to injure or impair the
condition or usefulness of any shade tree, electric light, telephone or
telegraph poles or lines.
   (B)   Permission to cut or injure trees. No tree of any kind shall be cut,
bruised or scarred under any circumstances, without the expressed permission in
writing of the owner of the same and with the permission of the Street
Commissioner.
   (C)   Notice to public utilities. In all cases where necessary to remove any
electric light, telephone or telegraph construction, it shall be the duty of
the person moving such building or structure to give not less than 24 hours’
notice to the public utility company or person owning or operating the same,
which notice shall state the place, the construction which is necessary to be
removed, or temporarily changed or altered and the day on which it desired to
have such clearance made as well as the amount of time necessary to keep such
space clear.
   (D)   Deposit: moving of utility lines. It is the duty of the person moving
the building or structure to prove deposit of an adequate amount in money or
bond estimated necessary to cover the cost of the changing or moving of public
utility overhead construction and replacing the same in its former condition.
Upon such deposit being made with the City Clerk and such notice being
delivered to the owner or operator of the telephone or telegraph and line
construction, it is the duty of the person owning or operating the overhead
construction to make such temporary changes as are reasonably necessary to
comply with the representations set forth in the notice made and delivered to
him or her.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-6)
§ 150.121 GUARD AGAINST DANGER.
   It is the duty of the house mover to station sufficient persons on guard and
to establish such notices by placards or boards in the immediate vicinity of
the moving activities as will be necessary to apprise any reasonable person of
any potential danger that might be incurred by coming closer to the moving
operations or buildings being moved or the instruments or agencies used in the
moving of the same.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-7)
§ 150.122 LIMIT SIZE OF BUILDING.
   No permit shall be issued to move any building which, in the judgment of the
Building Superintendent or Street Commissioner, might by any chance result in
an injury to the pavements, bridges, conduits or other street improvements
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-8)
§ 150.123 TIME LIMIT; LATE FEE.
   (A)   At the time of application for a permit, it is the duty of the mover
of any building or structure to estimate the reasonable time required for the
moving of the building from its present location to its proposed location and
shall state in his or her application for permit what he or she deems to be
such reasonable time.
   (B)   The mover shall bind himself or herself to pay the sum of $10 per day
for each and every day, all or any part of which, the building or structure
remains on the street in excess of the number of days allowed in the permit,
and his or her cash deposit in addition to his or her bond shall be made liable
for the payment of the amount.
   (C)   Nothing but an act of God shall be a defense against the payment of
the sums.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-9)
§ 150.124 NOTICE TO FIRE AND POLICE DEPARTMENTS.
   Any person desiring to move any building shall show his or her permit to the
Chiefs of the Police and Fire Departments. If for any reason any delay is
occasioned by any unforeseen contingency, it is his or her duty to inform the
Fire and Police Chiefs of such facts, to the end that the Fire and Police
Chiefs may keep accurate and recent information on the true conditions of the
streets and alleys for fire prevention and traffic purposes.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-10)
§ 150.125 LIABILITY.
   No provision or condition of this subchapter shall be construed so as to
limit the liability civilly of any person moving any house on or over the city
streets, avenues and alleys from any and all damages which may result as the
proximate cause of such acts to any person or his or her property or to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-11)
HOUSE NUMBERS
§ 150.140 NUMBERING REQUIRED.
   From and after July 1, 1998, the city shall require all buildings within the
city limits to have visible house numbers relating to its address, visible from
the front or accessible public street, in a size not less than three inches in
height.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-1) (Ord. 600, passed 5-5-1998) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Building Code.
      (1)   Violation of §§
150.001 through
150.010. Any person who shall violate a provision of §§
150.001 through
150.010 adopted hereby or shall fail to comply therewith or with any of the
requirements thereof, or who shall erect, construct, alter or repair, or
remove, or have erected, constructed, altered or repaired, or removed a
building or structure in violation of a detailed statement or plan submitted
and approved thereunder, or of a permit or certificate issued thereunder, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Violation of Chapter 150.
         (a)   Penalty imposed. Any person, firm or corporation who shall
engage in any business, trade or vocation for which a license, permit,
certificate or registration is required by this Chapter 150, without having a
valid license, permit, certificate or certificate of registration as required,
or who shall fail to do anything required by this Chapter 150 or by any code
adopted by this Chapter 150, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of
this Chapter 150 or of any code adopted by this Chapter 150, or who shall
violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the officers provided for
in this Chapter 150, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
         (b)   Relief in courts. No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this
Chapter 150 shall interfere with the right of the city also to apply to the
proper courts of the state for a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate
action against such person, firm or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-11)
   (C)   Plumbing Code. See division (B)(2) of this section for applicable
penalty provisions for §§
150.025 through
150.032.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-9)
   (D)   Electrical Code. See division (B)(2) of this section for applicable
penalty provisions for §§
150.045 through
150.053.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-10)
   (E)   Residential Code. See division (B)(2) of this section for applicable
penalty provisions for §§
150.065 through
150.067.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4)
   (F)   Fire Code.
      (1)   Penalty imposed. Any person who violates any of the provisions of
the Fire Code (§§
150.080 through
150.087) hereby adopted or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails
to comply with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or
modified by the City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within
the time fixed therein, shall severally for every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of an offense, punishable by a fine as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time. When not otherwise specified, each ten days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Remedial action. The application of the above penalty shall not be
held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-9)
   (G)   Fuel Gas Code. See division (B)(2) of this section for applicable
penalty provisions for §§
150.100 and
150.101.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-3)
   (H)   House moving. See division (B)(2) of this section for applicable
penalty provisions for §§
150.115 through
150.125.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-12)
   (I)   House numbers. The failure to maintain a number, as required by §
150.140, after July 1, 1998, shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not less than $10 nor more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-1)
(Ord. 600, passed 5-5-1998)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
Streets, Sidewalks and Public Ways
   
151.01   Administration
   
151.02   Trees and shrubbery
   
151.03   Obstructing streets and sidewalks
   
151.04   Deposits of trash
   
151.05   Congregating on streets, sidewalks
   
151.06   Obstructing or interfering with drainage
   
151.07   Drainage pipe installation permit; regulations
   
151.08   Playing on sidewalks, in streets
   
151.09   Washing vehicles; filling station drainage
   
151.10   Driving on newly paved streets
   
151.11   Electric light and telephone poles
   
151.12   Animals upon or near sidewalks
Excavations
   
151.25   Permit required
   
151.26   Cash deposit required
   
151.27   Replacing street surface
   
151.28   Guard against accidents
   
151.29   Duty of Street Superintendent
   
151.30   Bridge for pedestrians required
   
151.31   Warning lights required
Sidewalk, Roadbed Construction
   
151.45    Construction specifications on file
Railroads
   
151.60   Railroads to improve streets and alleys
   
151.61   Sidewalks constructed by railroads
   
151.62   Climbing on trains
   
151.63   Speed of trains
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
§ 151.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Enforcement officials; duties.
      (1)   Street Superintendent, duties.
         (a)   The Street Superintendent of the city, under the supervision and
control of the City Manager, shall be the overseer of the streets, alleys,
bridges, gutters and public grounds of the city. It is his or her duty to
remove or cause to be removed all waste matter and substances, and all
obstructions from the streets, avenues, alleys and public grounds of the city,
and to see that all streets, avenues, alleys, bridges and culverts are kept in
a good state of repair and in good condition, and to perform such duties as may
be imposed upon him or her by the Mayor and Council of the city.
         (b)   The Street Superintendent shall be the lawful custodian of all
street tools, apparatus, implements, machinery, graders and other property or
thing belonging to or used by him or her or his or her department, and shall be
responsible therefor to the city, and shall account for and turn over the same
to his or her successor.
      (2)   City Engineer.
         (a)   The office of City Engineer is hereby created and established.
The Engineer shall be appointed by the City Manager with the approval of the
City Council. He or she shall serve at the will and pleasure of the Mayor and
Council and shall receive such compensation as the Mayor and Council shall
provide.
         (b)   It is the duty of the City Engineer to prepare and keep on file
in his or her office suitable and complete maps and blueprints of:
            1.   The additions, annexations and disconnections of territory to
the city as the same may have been made or may hereafter be made. Such maps
shall include the original townsite;
            2.   The waterworks system, showing the location and size of all
water lines, fire hydrants, manholes, main valves and public hydrants or
troughs;
            3.   The storm and sanitary sewer system mains, submains and
laterals and their size and elevation, including the established location for
taps, manholes, catch basins and other equipment; and
            4.   Sidewalks, crossings, curb and street grades and the datum
plane.
         (c)   It is the duty of the City Engineer to prepare specifications,
plans, blueprints and maps for sidewalk construction, paving and other street
improvements. In connection with the same, he or she shall submit estimates of
cost of such construction or repairs as the case may be as required by law or
as ordered by the Mayor and Council.
         (d)   The Street Commissioner, after consultation with the city
inspector, shall approve all permits for the repair or construction of
sidewalks, curbs, paving, bridges, culverts and crossings. He or she shall
perform such other duties in connection with the same as are now or may
hereafter be required of him or her by ordinance or the Mayor and Council.
         (e)   The City Engineer shall prepare and keep in his or her office at
all times an inventory of all property of the city in his or her possession or
which may come into his or her possession. He or she shall make a report at the
last regular meeting in June of each year in which he or she shall show a
complete invoice of all property of the city coming into his or her possession
and a statement showing the condition of the same. He or she shall perform such
other duties as are now or may hereafter be required of him or her by the Mayor
and Council.
   (B)   Council determine and direct work.
      (1)   The City Council may determine and direct when and upon what
streets, avenues and alleys all labor shall be performed, and the manner and
price to be paid for labor therefor, and may determine and direct all
improvements and repairs thereon, and the material to be used and the price to
be paid for the same.
      (2)   The Street Superintendent, however, shall be under the supervision
and control of the City Manager.
   (C)   Placing guards, signals near excavations, obstructions. It is the duty
to see that proper and suitable guards and signals are placed about
excavations, or other dangerous obstructions in any street, avenue, alley,
sidewalk or public grounds within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 151.02 TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   Trees permitted on residential streets. Permission is hereby given to
any owner, lessee or occupant of any property abutting on any residential
street to set out and grow any kind of tree for shade purposes between the
property line and the curb line of such property line, such trees to be set on
a line or lines running parallel with the line of such property, and shall not
be set or grown in any other place or in any other manner.
   (B)   Removing decayed trees. All decayed, dead or broken trees, and all
dead, decayed or broken parts of trees, which are unsightly and liable to fall
or be blown down, and which are standing near any sidewalk in the city, shall
be removed by the owner or occupant or person having charge of the adjacent
property or the property on which same is located.
   (C)   Trimming trees and shrubbery.
      (1)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of the city shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys. When such premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinbefore required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
      (2)   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in this section, after receiving five days’
notice from the Street Commissioner to do so shall be guilty of an offense
against the city. Every day that the owner or occupant shall fail, refuse or
neglect to trim the trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of the five days’
notice, shall be a separate offense.
   (D)   Injuring trees and shrubbery. It is unlawful for any person to injure
any tree or shrubbery on a street or alley in the city; provided, that this
shall not prohibit the lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and
shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Merchandise. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
place upon or permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and
alleys of the city any goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other
obstruction, and leave same thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on
a business or trade.
   (B)   Interference with pedestrians, vehicular traffic. It is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the sidewalks of the city in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use
or obstruct the streets and alleys of the city in any manner so as to interfere
unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 DEPOSITS OF TRASH.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or
sweep into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the city any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or
other refuse of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 CONGREGATING ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to obstruct the free use of any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public way or walk by congregating or
assembling thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06 OBSTRUCTING OR INTERFERING WITH DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Storm sewers, drains. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to obstruct any street, sidewalk or alley within the city by
placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or substance whatever that
will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water into the storm sewers or
drains or dam the same so as to back any water upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks or gutter.
   (B)   Obstructions a nuisance. Any such obstruction is hereby declared to be
a nuisance; and the Street Department may abate it at any time, either with or
without notice to owners or occupants of abutting property owners.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 DRAINAGE PIPE INSTALLATION PERMIT; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Specifications; permit.
      (1)   No person shall install or lay any drainage pipe or culvert of less
than 12 inch diameter in the construction, repair or alteration of any
driveway, sidewalk or other private way, which drainage pipe or culvert when
installed will be upon public property, with the exception that ten inch steel
or equivalent metal pipe or culverts may be used in flat areas of the city
where adjoining drainage ditches are not sufficiently deep that any advantage
could be gained from larger pipe or culverts.
      (2)   All drainage pipes or culverts so installed in the city shall be
either of steel or equivalent metal or concrete construction.
      (3)   Such person shall first obtain a permit from the City Clerk with
the approval of the Street Superintendent for work to be done. The word PERSON
as it appears herein shall mean person, firm, association, corporation,
partnership or other groups of persons.
   (B)   Inspection. It is the duty of the Street Superintendent to inspect
each and every drainage tile installed within the corporate limits of the city
and to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 151.08 PLAYING ON SIDEWALKS, IN STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on the sidewalks or upon the main
traveled portion of the streets and alleys of the city, except as may be
authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.09 WASHING VEHICLES; FILLING STATION DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Washing vehicles on street. The washing of an automobile or other
vehicle in any street of the city is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Water and mud draining onto street. No automobile or other vehicle
shall be washed at any place within the city where the water, dirt, mud or
other substances removed therefrom by or during the washing thereof shall drain
into or upon any street or sidewalk of the city.
   (C)   Water from filling stations and other businesses. It is unlawful for
any owner or operator of a filling station or other place of business, or any
agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or other fluid to
flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking, street, alley
or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.10 DRIVING ON NEWLY PAVED STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to ride, or drive any animal, or to drive any
vehicle over any newly paved street, avenue or alley in the city before such
paving shall have been accepted by the city, and before the same shall have
been formally opened by the city for public travel thereon. Provided, the
contractor or other person having charge of such paving shall erect and
maintain barriers at the end of the streets, avenues and alleys on which such
paving is being done, as well as at all street intersections thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.11 ELECTRIC LIGHT AND TELEPHONE POLES.
   (A)   Placement in alleys. All electric light and telephone poles hereafter
erected, set or reset shall be erected and set in the alleys of the city, and
in no case shall the same be erected or set upon the streets or parkways of the
city.
   (B)   Height of poles. All telephone poles and electric light poles
hereafter erected or set in the alleys or on the public grounds of the city
shall be of good quality and of sufficient height that the wire strung thereon
shall be at least 30 feet above the level of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11)
§ 151.12 ANIMALS UPON OR NEAR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to ride, drive, hitch, tie or place any horse,
mule, colt, cow, calf, bull or bullock, or any animal of the horse or bovine
kind, or any domestic animal on any sidewalk in the city, or so near the same
as to interrupt or discommode or endanger persons traveling thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 151.25 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Compliance required. No person shall excavate, dig in, alter or change
or interfere with any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, pavement, curbing or
other public ground or the surface thereof, within the limits of the city, for
any purpose whatsoever, unless the provisions of this subchapter have been
complied with.
   (B)   Permit required. Such person shall first obtain a permit from the City
Clerk with the approval of the Street Superintendent for such work to be done.
The word PERSON as it appears herein shall mean person, firm, association,
corporation, partnership or other group of persons.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.26 CASH DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Deposit required; amounts. It is hereby required of all persons before
the issuance of a permit for doing any such work as described in §
151.25 of this chapter that they deposit with the City Clerk in cash, a sum to
cover the cost of replacement and repair of any street, avenue, alley,
sidewalk, pavement or other public ground and the surface thereof by the city
in the same condition as the same was prior to the time of doing any work as
described in the preceding section. The amount of such cash deposit shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Asphalt surface $1.50/lin. foot of excavation, minimum $10;
      (2)   Concrete surface $2.50/lin. foot of excavation, minimum $20; and
      (3)   Gravel or earthen surface $1/lin. foot of excavation, minimum $10.
   (B)   Authority to alter fee amounts. The amount of the cash deposits above
required are for normal or ordinary excavations, and the Street Superintendent
may make adjustments in the amount of such cash deposits when conditions,
including width or area of excavation, are such that the cost of making repairs
and replacements of such excavations or alterations including surfaces shall be
less than or greater than the cost for the usual, normal or ordinary
excavations or alterations.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 151.27 REPLACING STREET SURFACE.
   When the purpose for which such excavations or alterations have been
accomplished by the person obtaining the permit therefor, all such excavations
made, or trenches or ditches dug or other alterations made, shall be filled up,
firmly tamped, and the surface of any street, avenue or alley affected placed
in a durable, smooth and serviceable condition and in as good condition as it
was before such work was done by the Street Department of the city under the
supervision of the Street Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 151.28 GUARD AGAINST ACCIDENTS.
   It is hereby made the duty of any person, during any excavation, to safely
guard the public against any and all accidents liable to occur as a result of
the same, by providing suitable and adequate warning signs, lights, safeguards,
railings and guard devices around any such excavations, ditches or trenches.
From sunset to sunrise he or she shall maintain a sufficient number of red
lights or torches on each side of such excavations, trenches or ditches as is
necessary to give adequate and suitable warning of danger.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
§ 151.29 DUTY OF STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
   All such work shall be done under the supervision of the Street
Superintendent. The cash or bond shall be returned, upon performance of the
work as herein required, in a reasonable time. The Street Superintendent shall
utilize such portion of the cash deposit or bond as may be necessary for the
purpose of restoring the places to their former condition.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 151.30 BRIDGE FOR PEDESTRIANS REQUIRED.
   Any person authorized to do any work described in this chapter must at the
time of the excavation, and until the place is restored to its original
condition, construct and maintain an appropriate bridge across the place and
maintain a red light on each side of the bridge to warn the public, and the
bridge shall have banisters or guard rails, if any ditch is left open on either
side. Torches may be used in place of the red lights herein required.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 151.31 WARNING LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   In all cases where the ditch or excavation runs parallel with the street
either to the sidewalk in the street or a driveway, warning lights shall be
placed not less than 25 feet apart all along the ditch. The lights shall be
maintained from sunset until sunrise.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7)
SIDEWALK, ROADBED CONSTRUCTION
§ 151.45 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS ON FILE.
   Specifications for sidewalk and roadbed construction shall be on file in the
office of the city inspector.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
RAILROADS
§ 151.60 RAILROADS TO IMPROVE STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks running in a
general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto, the railway
company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet on either side
thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street is to be, or has
been, improved, or with such other satisfactory material as the Council by
motion or resolution may approve. In case any railway company shall occupy an
alley with its track or tracks, such company shall improve, gutter, drain, and
grade such alley, and shall surface or pave it with the same material which is
to be, or has been, used on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material
as the Council by motion or resolution may approve. When the tracks of any
railroad company cross any street that is being or has been paved, the company
shall pave as much of the street as is occupied by its track or tracks and two
feet on each side, using the same material as is to be, or has been, used on
the street, or such other satisfactory material as the Council by motion or
resolution may approve. When more than one track crosses a street within a
distance of 100 feet, measuring from inside rail to inside rail, the railroad
company shall grade, gutter, drain and curb the street area between its tracks,
and surface or pave it with the same material which the city is to use or has
used, on the street. Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made
by them in a good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-1)
§ 151.61 SIDEWALKS CONSTRUCTED BY RAILROADS.
   Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights-of-way,
using the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as this is
practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on both
sides of the streets when both sides are used by pedestrians. The company shall
keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-2)
§ 151.62 CLIMBING ON TRAINS.
   It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any manner
attach himself or herself to, any railway train, locomotive, or railway car,
while such is in motion within the city, unless such person is acting in line
of duty, or to board any train or railroad car, including a passenger, freight,
or other car, except with a proper ticket or the permission of the person in
charge of the train or car or in line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.63 SPEED OF TRAINS.
   Pursuant to 45 U.S.C. § 434, the City Council finds that the following
locations are a local safety hazard, and hereby reaffirms the 35 mph speed
limit for trains passing through the city until a “gated” crossing is
established at such locations:
   (A)   Oakridge Bypass crossing; and
   (B)   Oliphant Street crossing.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-4) (Ord. 588, passed 11-19-1996; Ord. 589, passed 11-19-
1996)
CHAPTER 152: AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Short title
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Airport Zones
   
152.04   Airport Zone height limitations
   
152.05   Use restrictions
   
152.06   Nonconforming uses
   
152.07   Permits
   
152.08   Enforcement
   
152.09   Board of Adjustment
   
152.10   Appeals
   
152.11   Judicial review
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Municipal Airport
Hazard Zoning Regulations”.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-1)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Holdenville Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest point of an airport’s usable landing area
measured in feet from mean sea level.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or object of natural growth located on or in
the vicinity of a public airport, or any use of land near such airport, which
obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or
takeoff at such airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or takeoff of
aircraft.
   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES. These zones apply to
the area under the approach, transitional, horizontal, and conical surfaces
defined in FAR Part 77 for conventional takeoff or landing.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A board consisting of three members appointed by the
Mayor and City Council as provided in §
152.09 of this chapter.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or governmental entity. It includes a trustee,
receiver, assignee or similar representative of any of them.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway; but when the runway has no specially
prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE ends at
each end of that runway. The width of the PRIMARY SURFACE of a runway will be
that width prescribed in Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) for
the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that runway.
The elevation of any point on the PRIMARY SURFACE is the same as the elevation
of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by humans, including, but
without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, earth formation and
overhead transmission lines.
   TREES. Any object of natural growth.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-2)
§ 152.03 AIRPORT ZONES.
   In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby
created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying
within the approach zones, transitional zones, horizontal zones and conical
zones as they apply to a particular airport. Such zones are shown on
Holdenville Municipal Airport zoning map consisting of one sheet, prepared by
Ammerman, Butler and Thomas, Inc., and dated December 3, 1973, which is
attached to Ordinance 514, and made a part hereof by reference. An area located
in more than one of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone
with the more restrictive height limitation. The various zones are hereby
established and defined as follows.
   (A)   Approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the
width of the primary surface and is 150 feet wide. The approach zone expands
outward uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000
feet from the primary surface. Its centerline being the continuation of the
centerline of the runway.
   (B)   Transitional zones. These zones are hereby established as the area
beneath the transitional surfaces. These surfaces extend outward and upward at
90 degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at
a slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of
the primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces.
   (C)   Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is hereby established by swinging
arcs of 5,000-foot radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of
each runway, and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those
arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
   (D)   Conical zone. The conical zone is hereby established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-3)
§ 152.04 AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Height limitations. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or be maintained
in any zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable
height limit herein established for such zone. Such applicable height
limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in question as
follows.
      (1)   Approach zone. The approach zone slopes upward 20 feet horizontally
for each foot vertically, beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as
the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along
the extended runway centerline.
      (2)   Transitional zones. Transitional zones slope upward and outward
seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and
at the same elevation as the primary surface and the approach zones, and
extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation which is 864 feet
above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are established
height limits sloping upward and outward seven feet horizontally for each foot
vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
zones, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface.
      (3)   Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is 150 feet above the airport
elevation or a height of 1,014 feet above mean sea level.
      (4)   Conical zone. The conical zone slopes upward and outward 20 feet
horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the periphery of the
horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport elevation and extending to a
height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
      (5)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the growth, construction or maintenance of any tree or
structure to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
   (B)   Prevailing limitation. Where an area is covered by more than one
height limitation, the more restrictive limitation shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-4)
§ 152.05 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport or
otherwise in any way create a hazard or endanger the landing, takeoff or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-5)
§ 152.06 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Existing structures or trees.
      (1)   The regulations prescribed by this chapter shall not be construed
to require the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any structure
or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of this
chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuances of a nonconforming use.
      (2)   Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of this chapter and
is diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Placement of markers or lights. Notwithstanding the preceding
provision of this section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or
tree is hereby required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance
thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the City
Council to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of airport,
the presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-6)
§ 152.07 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required; exceptions and conditions. No material change shall
be made in the use of land and no structure or tree shall be erected, altered,
planted or otherwise established in any zone hereby created unless a permit
therefor shall have been applied for and granted:
      (1)   However, a permit for a tree or structure of less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground shall not be required in the horizontal and
conical zones or in any approach and transitional zones beyond a horizontal
distance of 2,200 feet from each end of the runway except when such tree or
structure, because of terrain, land contour or topographic features, would
extend above the height limit prescribed for the respective zone; and
      (2)   Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which
the permit is desired with sufficient particulars to determine whether the
resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the regulations herein
prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted.
   (B)   Hazard or nonconforming use prohibited. No permit shall be granted
that would allow the establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a
nonconforming use, structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air
navigation than it was on the effective date of this chapter or any amendments
thereto or than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as
indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Abandoned or damaged structure or tree. Whenever the City Council
determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned or more
than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall be
granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable height
limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   (D)   Application for variance. Any person desiring to erect or increase the
height of any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her
property not in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may
apply to the Board of Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. Such
variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship and relief granted would not be contrary to the public
interest but will do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit
of this chapter.
   (E)   Installation of markers or lights. Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the city inspector, at the
city’s expense, to install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and
lights as may be necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airport
hazard.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-7)
§ 152.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   It is the duty of the city inspector to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to the city inspector upon a form furnished by him or her. Applications
required by this chapter to be submitted to the city inspector shall be
promptly considered and granted or denied by him or her. Application for action
by the Board of Adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the city
inspector.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-8)
§ 152.09 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Board created; powers. There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment
to have and exercise the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the city inspector in the enforcement of this chapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (B)   Membership. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of three members
appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, and each shall
serve for a term of one year and until his or her successor is duly appointed
and qualified. Of the members first appointed, each shall be appointed for a
term of one year. Members shall be removable by the appointing authority for
cause, upon written charges, after a public hearing.
   (C)   Rules; meetings. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its
governance and in harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the
Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such
other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson, or in
his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
the vote of each member upon each question; or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
city inspector, and on due cause shown.
   (D)   Written findings of fact. The Board of Adjustment shall make written
findings of fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted
and its legal conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying
any order, requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under
the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Actions of Board. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of
the Board of Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the city inspector or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter,
or to effect variation in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-9)
§ 152.10 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal decision of city inspector. Any person aggrieved, or any
taxpayer affected, by any decision of the city inspector made in his or her
administration of this chapter may appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Notice; grounds for appeal. All appeals hereunder must be taken within
a reasonable time as provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by
filing with the city inspector a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. The city inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment
all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   (C)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the city inspector certifies to
the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it,
that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or
her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the Board of Adjustment on
notice to the city inspector and on due cause shown.
   (D)   Set time for hearing; notice. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a
reasonable time for hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   Actions of Board. The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the
provision of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify
the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make
such order, requirement, decision or determination, as may be appropriate under
the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-10)
§ 152.11 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment may appeal to the district court of this county, as provided in
the city code.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-11)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable by a
fine as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-12)
CHAPTER 153: HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
Section
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Purposes
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Area of application
   
153.05   Historical Preservation Commission
   
153.06   General provisions and description
   
153.07   Designation procedure
   
153.08   Interim control
   
153.09   Landmark or district designation; criteria
   
153.10   Certificate of appropriateness
   
153.11   Certificate of economic hardship
   
153.12   Demolition or removal of structure or site
   
153.13   Minimum maintenance
   
153.14   Historical Preservation Commission Review
   
153.15   Appeals
   
153.16   Taxes
   
153.17   Property owned by public agencies
   
153.18   Effect of repeal of ordinances; revival
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the “Townsite
Historic District Ordinance of Holdenville, Oklahoma”.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-1) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.02 PURPOSES.
   The city hereby declares that the historical, architectural, cultural and
aesthetic features of the city represent some of the finest and most valuable
resources of the city, and such resources are the embodiment of the heritage of
the people of Holdenville. Therefore, it is hereby declared that the purposes
of this chapter, to be known as the historical preservation ordinance, shall be
as follows:
   (A)   To designate, preserve, protect, enhance and perpetuate those
structures and districts which reflect outstanding elements of the city’s
cultural, artistic, social, economic, political, architectural, historic or
other heritage;
   (B)   To promote and encourage continued private ownership and utilization
of improvements, structures and buildings to the end that the objectives listed
herein can be attained;
   (C)   To foster civic pride in the beauty and accomplishments of the past;
   (D)   To stabilize or improve the aesthetic and economic vitality and values
of such structures and districts; and
   (E)   To promote the use of outstanding historical or architectural
structures or districts for the education, stimulation and welfare of the
people of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-2) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCHITECTURAL RESOURCES. Districts, structures, buildings, monuments, sites
and landscaping that possess local interest or artistic merit, or which are
particularly representative of their class or period, or represent achievements
in architecture, engineering technology, design, or scientific research and
development.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The official document issued by the Historic
Preservation Commission approving any application for permission to construct,
erect, demolish, move, reconstruct, rehabilitate, restore, stabilize or alter
any structure within a historical district.
   COMMISSION. Historical Preservation Commission of the city.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE. The architectural style, design, general
arrangements and components of all of the outer surfaces of an “improvement”,
as distinguished from the interior surfaces enclosed by said exterior surfaces,
including, but not limited to, the kind, color and texture of the building
material and the type and style of all windows, doors, lights, roofs, signs and
other fixtures appurtenant to such “improvements”.
   GOOD REPAIR. A condition which not only meets minimum standards of health
and safety, but which also guarantees continued attractiveness, continued
structural soundness and continued usefulness.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A geographically definable area as designated by
ordinance of the City Council which may contain one or more significant
landmarks and which may have within its boundaries other properties or
structures, while not of such historic and/or architectural significance to be
designated as landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall visual
characteristics of the district.
   HISTORICAL RESOURCES. Sites, districts, structures, buildings or monuments
that represent facets of history in the locality, state or nation; places where
significant historical or unusual events occurred; places associated with a
personality or group important to the past.
   LANDMARK. An individual structure, building, site or monument which
contributes to the historical, architectural or archeological heritage of the
city and is worthy of rehabilitation, restoration and/or preservation.
   LANDMARK SITE. A parcel or part thereof on which is or was situated a
LANDMARK.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. Any work for which a building permit or any
other city permit or certificate is not required, and where the purpose of such
work is stabilization, and further, where such work will not noticeably change
the exterior appearance of the resource. Any work not satisfying all of the
above requirements shall not be considered ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. The
following examples shall not be considered ordinary maintenance and repair: the
application of paint to previously unpainted brick, or masonry; the
construction or enlargement of a driveway or parking area; the replacement of
exterior doors or windows, except for repair of broken glass or screens by use
of like glass or screens; and further, there are other types of construction or
other work that shall not be considered ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   PRESERVATION. The adaptive use, conservation, protection, reconstruction,
restoration, rehabilitation or stabilization of sites, buildings, districts,
structures, monuments or other resources significant to the heritage of the
people of the city, and further:
      (1)   ADAPTIVE USE. The restrained alteration of a historic or
architectural resource to accommodate uses for which the resource was not
originally constructed, but in such a way so as to maintain the general
historical and architectural character.
      (2)   CONSERVATION. The sustained use and appearance of a resource
essentially in its existing state.
      (3)   IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, place, parking facility,
fence, wall, work of art or other object, the addition or deletion of which
constitutes a physical betterment of real property, or any part of such
betterment of real property.
      (4)   PROTECTION. Maintaining the security and integrity as it exists
through the establishment of the mechanisms of this chapter.
      (5)   RECONSTRUCTION. The process of recreating or reproducing by new
construction all or part of the form and detail of a vanished resource as it
appeared at a specified period in time.
      (6)   REHABILITATION. The process of returning a historical or
architectural resource to the state of efficiency or soundness by repair or
alteration designed to encourage its continued use but without noticeably
changing the exterior appearance of the resource.
      (7)   RESTORATION. The process of accurately recovering all or a part of
the form and detail of a resource and its setting as it appeared at a
particular period of time by means of the removal of a later work and the
replacement or duplication of missing earlier work.
      (8)   STABILIZATION. The process of applying measures designed to halt
deterioration and establish the structural stability of an unsafe or
deteriorated resource while maintaining the essential form as it presently
exists without noticeably changing the exterior appearance of the resource.
   SIGN. Includes every sign, device, figure, painting, sculpture, drawing,
message, placard, poster, billboard, ground sign, temporary sign, marquee,
awning, canopy, banner, pennant, flag, announcement, decoration, demonstration,
display, illustration or insignia, designed to be seen from outside any
improvement, and which is used to advertise or promote the interests of any
person when the same is placed in view of the general public.
   SIGNIFICANT CHARACTERISTICS OF HISTORICAL OR ARCHITECTURAL RESOURCES. Those
characteristics which are important to or expressive of the historical,
architectural or cultural quality and integrity of the resource and its
setting, and which include, but are not limited to, building materials, detail,
height, mass, proportion, rhythm, scale, setback, setting, shape, street
accessories and workmanship.
      (1)   BUILDING MATERIALS. The physical components and the manner of their
utilization which create the aesthetic and structural appearance of the
resource, including, but not limited to, a consideration of the texture, nature
and style of the components and their combinations, such as brick, stone,
shingle, wood, concrete or stucco.
      (2)   DETAIL. The architectural aspects which, due to particular
treatment, draw attention to certain parts or features of a structure.
      (3)   HEIGHT. The vertical dimension of a given structure, building or
monument.
      (4)   PROPORTION. The relative physical sizes within and between
buildings and building components.
      (5)   RHYTHM. A regular pattern of shapes including, but not limited to,
windows, doors, projections, and heights, within a building, structure or
monument, or a group of the same.
      (6)   SCALE. The harmonious proportion of parts of a building, structure
or monument to one another and to the human figure.
      (7)   SETTING. The surrounding buildings, structure or monuments or
landscaping which provides visual aesthetic, or auditory quality to the
historical or architectural resources.
      (8)   SHAPE. The physical configuration of structures or buildings or
monuments and their component parts including, but not limited to, roofs,
doors, windows and facades.
      (9)   STREET ACCESSORIES. Those sidewalks or street fixtures which
provide cleanliness, comfort, direction, or safety, and are compatible in
design to their surroundings, and include, but are not limited to, trash
receptacles, benches, advertising displays, signs, lights, hydrants and
landscaping including, but not limited to, trees, shrubbery and planters.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or which is attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground. This includes, but is not limited to,
buildings, fences, walls, driveways, sidewalks, parking areas and signs.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-3) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.04 AREA OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Generally. This chapter shall apply to the following described
property, and such historic districts, landmarks, landmark sites and areas as
may be added by the Historic District and Landmarks Commission hereafter within
the corporate limits of the city and subject to approval of the City Council.
   (B)   District boundaries. Holdenville Townsite Historic District:
      (1)   All of Blocks 34 through 37, 41 through 44, 53 through 56, 65
through 68, 79 through 82, 90 through 95, 108 through 112, all in O.T.
Holdenville, County of Hughes; and
      (2)   Block 13 in Lewis Addition to the City of Holdenville, County of
Hughes (swimming pool).
(Prior Code, § 9-11-4) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.05 HISTORICAL PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation; membership. There is hereby created the Historical
Preservation Commission of the city. Its members shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council except as to the member to be
elected by the Planning Commission. In making the appointments to the
Commission, the Mayor shall attempt to maintain a balance of interest and
skills on the Commission, by assessing the individual qualifications of the
candidates, including, but not limited to, their knowledge or interest in any
one or more of the following: lending and finance, commerce, architecture,
history, landscape architecture, structural engineering. All members shall have
knowledge of and interest in historical preservation and will have demonstrated
their civic interest and knowledge of the history of the community. Whether the
local commission member is serving as a professional or concerned citizen
member, he or she must have a demonstrated interest in or knowledge of historic
preservation. The Commission shall consist of three to five members and must
satisfy at least one of the following:
      (1)   Member of local (county) historical or preservation society;
      (2)   Member of the Oklahoma Historical Society;
      (3)   Owns or is employed by a construction company that conducts
rehabilitation of older buildings;
      (4)   Is employed by or is a regular volunteer in a local museum or other
research collection; and
      (5)   Other specific activities that can be related to the field of
historic preservation.
   (B)   Terms of members. The term of each Commission member shall be for
three years until his or her successor takes office. Members may be appointed
to fill the remainder of vacant terms. All members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation. Initially two members shall be appointed for one
year, two for two years, and one for three years.
   (C)   Meetings and rules. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt rules
for the conduct of its business. The Commission shall elect a Chairperson who
shall serve for one year and who shall be eligible for reelection. All meetings
of the Commission shall be open to the public. Any person, or his or her duly
appointed representative, shall be entitled to appear and be heard on any
matter before the Commission. The Commission shall keep a record of its
proceedings, a copy of which shall be filed for public view in the office of
the City Clerk. No business of the Commission may be conducted unless a quorum
of not less than three members is present. The concurring vote of three members
is sufficient to approve or disapprove any act or action of the Commission. The
Mayor, or the designated representative of the Mayor, shall act as Secretary of
the Commission and shall attend and keep the minutes of all meetings. He or she
shall act in an advisory capacity only and may participate in the Commission’s
discussions but shall have no vote. The Mayor and the staff of the Community
Development Department shall assist the Commission in discharging its duties.
   (D)   Duties. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, the duties of the
Historical Preservation Commission include, but may not be limited to, the duty
to:
      (1)   Prepare or cause to be prepared a comprehensive inventory of
historical, architectural and archeological resources within the comprehensive
plan of the city;
      (2)   Prepare or cause to be prepared a general historical preservation
plan to be incorporated within the comprehensive plan of the city;
      (3)   Prepare findings of fact relating to the recommendation for
designation of historical, architectural and archeological resources;
      (4)   Prepare findings of fact pursuant to action taken by the Commission
relating to certificates of appropriateness;
      (5)   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning the acquisition
of development rights, facade easements and the development of historical
preservation plans;
      (6)   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning grants from
federal and state agencies, private groups and individuals and the utilization
of budgetary appropriations to promote the preservation of historic,
architectural or archeological resources; and, when so directed by the City
Council, may oversee historical projects or programs;
      (7)   Increase public awareness of the value of historic architectural,
or archeological resources by development and participating in public
information programs and by recommending the update of the preservation program
and by the giving of advice to owners or residents of such resources as to the
problems and techniques of preservation work; and further, by placing monuments
and markers at historical sites as chosen by the Commission;
      (8)   Comment and make recommendations concerning actions undertaken by
other city agencies or actions of other governmental units with respect to the
effect of such actions upon historical, architectural and archeological
resources; and
      (9)   Conduct a periodic review of the status of designated landmarks and
historic districts and provide periodic reports on the findings of said review,
along with any resolutions for action, as considered appropriate, by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-5) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.06 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   Application of provisions. The HP Historical Preservation District and
its regulations may be applied to property located in any other zoning
district, whether residential, commercial, industrial or agricultural, in
accordance with the provisions of the historical preservation ordinance. The HP
Historical Preservation District is intended to be an overlay zoning district
and the regulations imposed by such district shall be in addition to the
regulations of the underlying district applicable to the subject parcel or
area. All provisions of this chapter, including the definitions contained in §
153.03 of this chapter, shall be applicable to this district.
   (B)   District identification. Tracts, buildings, sites or areas designated
by the City Council as being within the HP Historical Preservation District
shall be identified on the official zoning map of the city and in other
official writings by the suffix “HP”.
   (C)   District regulations. The designating ordinance shall prescribe the
significant exterior architectural features; the types of construction,
alteration, demolition and removal, other than those requiring a building or
demolition permit that should be reviewed for appropriateness; the design
guidelines for applying the criteria for review of appropriateness; permitted
uses; special uses; height and area regulations; sign regulation; and parking
regulations.
   (D)   Ordinary maintenance or repair. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prevent ordinary maintenance or repair of any structure except for
exterior alteration.
   (E)   Uses adjacent to Historical Preservation District. Any use permitted
in a residential, commercial, business or industrial district while lying
adjacent to or across the street from structures or areas falling within the HP
Historical Preservation District shall be screened or designed, as appropriate,
so as to minimize its effect upon such structures or area. This required
screening or design is specifically made applicable to all properties and uses
whether coming into existence prior to the enactment date of this chapter or
subsequently coming into existence.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-6) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.07 DESIGNATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   City authority to designate. The city may designate tracts and sites
for inclusion within the Historical Landmark District and/or the Historical
Preservation District in the same manner prescribed for the designation of
other zoning districts and subject to compliance with this chapter; however,
all designations of tracts and sites for inclusion within the preservation
district shall be reviewed and considered by the Historical Preservation
Commission. Such Commission shall forward its recommendation regarding a
proposed designation to the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission and City
Council.
   (B)   Initiation. The initiation of a proposal of designation may be made by
the Commission, the City Council, the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission or
on the application of any owner or owners of the parcels to be designated or
their authorized agents. Any such application shall be made upon forms or
pursuant to standards set by the Commission for this purpose.
   (C)   Notice of consideration. Notice of consideration of a district
designation by the Historical Preservation Commission shall be the same as is
required for consideration of the adoption or amendment of zoning district
boundaries by the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission and in this code. As a
part of such notice, Code Enforcement shall notify the owner or owners of
record of affected properties by certified mail with return receipt requested
of the proposed designation, including a copy of the proposed designation
ordinance, a letter outlining the basis for the designation, and the
obligations and restrictions which result from such designation.
   (D)   Presentation of testimony. The Commission may solicit and present
expert testimony or documentary evidence regarding the historical,
architectural, archeological or cultural importance of the property or district
proposed for designation.
   (E)   Report to Commission. It shall be the duty of the Mayor, or the
Mayor’s designee, to report to the Commission as to the existence of such
plans, programs or authorizations which might have application to the property
proposed for designation, and further to offer a professional opinion as to
whether or not the proposed designation is in accordance with such plans,
programs, or authorizations.
   (F)   Written statement. As part of every such proposed designation, or
proposed amendment of a designation, the Commission shall state in written form
to the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission and City Council the attributes of
the area or property proposed for designation or the degree to which such
attributes relate to and comply with the review criteria set forth in this
chapter. In addition, the Commission shall state in writing:
      (1)   Whether or not, in its review, designation would be in compliance
with prior actions of the City Council approving plans, programs or
authorizations for public trusts, agencies or authorities of the city;
      (2)   The proposed design guidelines for applying the criteria for review
of certificates of appropriateness to the district proposed for designation;
and
      (3)   The recommendation as to appropriate permitted uses, uses permitted
on review, height and area regulations, sign regulations, and parking
regulations necessary or appropriate to the preservation of the district
proposed for designation.
   (G)   Notice of approvals or disapprovals. The Mayor shall officially notify
the Commission of all approvals or disapprovals of designation ordinances at
the next regular meeting of the Commission following City Council action.
   (H)   Amendment or repeal of designation. The Commission shall have the
authority to effect the amendment or repeal of any designation of a site,
structure, building, district or monument in the same manner and according to
the same procedure as provided herein for the original designation.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-7) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.08 INTERIM CONTROL.
   No building permit shall be issued by the city for alteration, construction,
demolition or removal of any property or structure within a nominated
historical district from the date of the meeting of the Commission at which an
application form is first presented until its final disposition by the City
Council unless such alteration, removal or demolition is authorized by formal
resolution of the City Council as necessary for public health, welfare or
safety. In no event shall the delay be for more than 180 days.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-8) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.09 LANDMARK OR DISTRICT DESIGNATION; CRITERIA.
   A site, structure, building, district or monument may be designated for
preservation as a landmark or historical district and thus may be included
within the Historical Preservation District if such possesses the following
attributes within the categories below.
   (A)   Historical, cultural category.
      (1)   Such has significant character, interest or value as part of the
development, heritage or cultural characteristics of the locality, state or
nation; or is associated with the life of a personality significant to the
past;
      (2)   Such is the site of a historical event with a significant effect
upon the development, heritage or cultural characteristic of the locality,
state or nation; or
      (3)   Such exemplifies a facet of the cultural, political, economic,
social or historical heritage of the community.
   (B)   Architectural, engineering category.
      (1)   Such portrays the environment in an era of history characterized by
a distinctive architectural style;
      (2)   Such embodies those distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural type or engineering specimen;
      (3)   Such is the work of a designer or architect or contractor whose
individual work has influenced the development of the community or of this
nation;
      (4)   Such contains elements of design, detail, materials or
craftsmanship which represents a style unique to the past;
      (5)   Such is a part of or related to a square, park or other distinctive
area and thus should be developed and preserved according to a plan based on a
historical, cultural or architectural motif; or
      (6)   Such represents an established and familiar visual feature of the
neighborhood, community or skyline owing to its unique location or singular
physical characteristics.
   (C)   Archeological category.
      (1)   Such has yielded, based upon physical evidence, information
important to history or prehistory; or
      (2)   Such is part of or related to a distinctive geographical area which
should be developed or preserved according to a plan based on cultural,
historic or architectural motif.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-9) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.10 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Requirement. A certificate of appropriateness shall be required in the
following instances before the commencement of work upon any structure or site
located within the HP Historical Preservation District:
      (1)   Whenever such work requires a building permit issued by the city;
      (2)   Whenever such work includes the application of paint to a
previously unpainted brick or masonry exterior surface or the construction or
enlargement of a driveway or parking area; and
      (3)   Whenever such work includes the construction, erection, moving,
demolition, reconstruction, rehabilitation, restoration, stabilization or
alteration of the exterior of any structure or site, except when such work
satisfies all the requirements for “ordinary maintenance and repair” as defined
in this chapter.
   (B)   Building permit issuance, condition. No building permit shall be
issued by the city inspector for any structure or site located within HP
Historical Preservation District until the application for such permit has been
reviewed by the Commission and a certificate of appropriateness approved by the
Commission.
   (C)   Documents required. When applying for such a permit, the applicant
shall furnish two copies of all detailed plans, elevations, perspectives and
specifications, and the Mayor shall forward to the Commission such application
for a building permit within five days of receipt thereof. Any applicant may
request a meeting with the Commission before submitting an application and may
consult with the Commission during the review of the permit application.
   (D)   Review of application. Upon review of the application, the Commission
shall determine whether the proposed work is of a nature which will adversely
affect any historical or architectural resource and whether such work is
appropriate and consistent with the spirit and intent of this chapter and the
designating ordinance. The Commission shall apply the criteria established by
this chapter and based thereon shall approve or disapprove such certificate of
appropriateness. If the Commission disapproves such a certificate of
appropriateness, no permit shall be issued and the applicant shall not proceed
with the proposed work.
   (E)   Develop guidelines. The Commission shall develop such guidelines as it
may find necessary to supplement the provisions of this chapter and to inform
owners, residents and general public of those techniques which are considered
most proper for undertaking work relating to historical and architectural
resources. The Commission shall have the opportunity to advise the City Council
concerning provisions in the building, electrical, plumbing, heat and air and
housing codes and other codes which affect preservation work.
   (F)   Commission action. It is not the intent of this chapter to limit new
construction to any one period or architectural styles, but to preserve the
integrity of historic and architectural resources and to ensure the
compatibility of new work constructed in the vicinity. In the case of the
disapproval of plans by the Commission, the Commission shall state in writing
the reasons for such disapproval and may include suggestions of the Commission
in regard to actions the applicant might take to secure the approval of the
Commission as to the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness.
   (G)   Archeological resource. With regard to the development of a property
containing a designated archeological resource, a certificate of
appropriateness shall be required prior to the issuance of the permit for which
the applicant has applied; and further, the following requirements shall be
satisfied.
      (1)   Archeological resources shall be protected from inappropriate or
improper digging by demonstration by the applicant that the appropriate permits
and standards are met for study, as set by the state historical society.
      (2)   Any discovered materials shall be properly recorded, reported,
stored or exhibited according to the standards set by the state historical
society.
      (3)   All development affecting the designated archeological resource
shall provide for the permanent preservation of the resource or provide for the
completion of the necessary work as recommended by the qualified archeologist.
      (4)   Prior to the hearing by the Commission for issuance of the
certificate of appropriateness, the applicant or the Commission shall cause to
have presented the comments and recommendations of a qualified archeologist
with respect to the resource under consideration and the application which
would affect it.
   (H)   Approval upon certain conditions. The Commission may approve
certificate of appropriateness subject to certain conditions. Work performed
pursuant to the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness shall conform to
the requirements of such certificate, if any. It shall be the duty of the Mayor
and the city inspector to inspect from time to time any work performed pursuant
to a certificate of appropriateness to assure such compliance. In the event
that such work is not in compliance, the Mayor shall issue a stop work order.
The Commission may request by resolution that the Mayor inspect the work and
issue a stop work order.
   (I)   Certificate review criteria. The Commission shall be guided by the
following certificate review criteria:
      (1)   The purpose and intent of this chapter;
      (2)   The degree to which the proposed work may destroy or alter all or
part of a resource;
      (3)   The degree to which the proposed work would serve to isolate the
resource from its historical or architectural surroundings, or would introduce
visual, audible, vibratory or polluting elements that are out of character with
the resource and its setting, or that adversely affect the physical integrity
of the resource;
      (4)   The compatibility of the building materials with the aesthetic and
structural appearance of the resource, including, but not limited to, the
consideration of texture, style, color or the components and their combinations
of elements such as brick, stone, concrete, shingle, wood or stucco; and
      (5)   The compatibility of the proposed design to the significant
characteristics of the resource, including, but not limited to, a consideration
of a harmony of materials, details, height, mass, proportion, rhythm, scale,
setback, shape, street accessories and workmanship.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-10) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.11 CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP.
   (A)   Application. Application on forms prescribed by the Commission for
certificate of economic hardship may be made by an owner or his or her agent
who has been denied a certificate of appropriateness for any work specified in
§
153.10 of this chapter.
   (B)   General provisions and procedures. The Commission may require that the
applicant for a certificate of economic hardship make submissions concerning
any or all of the following information before it makes a determination on the
application:
      (1)   An estimate of the cost of the proposed construction, alteration,
demolition or removal and an estimate of any additional cost that would be
incurred to comply with the recommendations of the Preservation Commission for
changes necessary for the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness;
      (2)   A report from a licensed engineer or architect with experience in
rehabilitation as to the structural soundness of any structures on the property
and their suitability for rehabilitation;
      (3)   The estimated market value of the property in its current
condition; after completion of the proposed construction, alteration,
demolition or removal; after any changes recommended by the Preservation
Commission and, in the case of a proposition, after renovation of the existing
property for continued use;
      (4)   In the case of a proposed demolition, an estimate from an
architect, developer, real estate consultant, appraiser, or other real estate
professional experienced in rehabilitation as to the economic feasibility or
rehabilitation or reuse of the existing structure on the property;
      (5)   Amount paid for the property, the date of purchase, and the party
from whom purchased, including a description of the relationship, if any,
between the owner of record or applicant and the person from whom the property
was purchased, and any terms of financing between the seller and buyer;
      (6)   If the property is income producing, the annual gross income from
the property for the previous two years and depreciation deduction and annual
cash flow before and after debt service, if any, during the same period;
      (7)   Remaining balance on any mortgage or other financing secured by the
property and annual debt service, if any, for the previous two years;
      (8)   All appraisals obtained within the previous two years by the owner
or applicant in connection with the purchase, financing or ownership of the
property;
      (9)   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous two years; and
      (10)   Assessed values of the property according to the two most recent
assessments.
   (C)   Public hearing required. After the application for certificate of
economic hardship has been submitted, the Commission shall hold a public
hearing at which any person may testify concerning economic hardship.
   (D)   Determination of economic hardship. The Commission shall review all
the evidence and information required of any applicant for a certificate of
economic hardship and make a determination within 45 days of receipt of the
application whether the denial of a certificate of appropriateness has
deprived, or will deprive, the owner of the property of reasonable use of, or
economic return on, the property. If the Commission disapproves such a
certificate of economic hardship, the applicant shall proceed with work only
when issued a certificate of appropriateness as provided in §
153.10 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-11) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.12 DEMOLITION OR REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE OR SITE.
   (A)   Approval required. No structure or site within any HP Historical
Preservation District shall be demolished or removed unless such demolition
shall be approved by the Commission and a certificate of appropriateness for
such demolition shall be granted.
   (B)   Procedure and postponement orders.
      (1)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing for the purpose of
considering certificate of appropriateness for demolition or removal. After
such hearing, the Commission may approve the certificate of appropriateness,
thereby authorizing the demolition, or may postpone the demolition for not more
than 180 days.
      (2)   At the conclusion of such period of postponement as specified in
the Commission’s order, the Commission shall hold a second public hearing for
the use of considering whether or not the Commission should recommend to the
City Council that additional postponement of demolition be ordered.
      (3)   In the event the Commission should make such recommendation of
additional postponement to the City Council, the Council shall hold a public
hearing for the purpose of considering such additional postponement of
demolition.
      (4)   At such public hearing the City Council may enter an order
approving the condition or may enter an order postponing demolition for an
additional period not to exceed 120 days from the date of such order. At the
conclusion of this final period of postponement, the City Council shall issue a
permit approving the demolition.
   (C)   Criteria for review of demolition. The Commission and City Council
shall be guided by the following criteria in considering certificates of
appropriateness and authorizations for demolition of structures or sites within
the HP Historical Preservation District:
      (1)   The purposes and intent of this chapter;
      (2)   The degree to which the proposed removal of the historical
resources would serve to destroy the integrity and continuity of the Historical
Preservation District of which it is a part;
      (3)   The nature of the resource as a representative type of style of
architecture, socioeconomic development, historical association or other
element of the original designation criteria applicable to such structure or
site;
      (4)   The condition of the resource from the standpoint of structural
integrity and the extent of work necessary to stabilize the structure; and
      (5)   The alternatives available to the demolition applicant, including:
         (a)   Donation of the subject structure or site to a public or
benevolent agency, including the conveyance of development rights and facade
easements;
         (b)   Donation of a part of the value of the subject structure or site
to a public or benevolent agency, including the conveyance of development
rights and facade easements;
         (c)   The possibility of sale of the structure or site, or any part
thereof, to a prospective purchaser capable of preserving such structure or
site;
         (d)   The potential of such structure or site for renovation and its
potential for continuing use;
         (e)   The potential of the subject structure or site for rezoning in
an effort to render such property more compatible with the physical potential
of the structure; and
         (f)   The ability of the subject structure or site to produce a
reasonable economic return on investment of its owner; provided however, that
it is specifically intended that this factor shall not have exclusive control
and effect, but shall be considered along with all other criteria contained in
this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-12) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.13 MINIMUM MAINTENANCE.
   Designated landmarks, or structures, buildings or monuments within
Historical Preservation Districts shall be maintained to meet the minimum
requirements of codes and ordinances governing the public health, safety and
welfare. The Commission, on its own initiative, may file a resolution with the
appropriate officers requesting said officers to proceed under the appropriate
codes to require correction of defects or initiation of repairs. All persons in
charge of a landmark, or a structure, building or monument within a historical
district shall keep in good repair all of the exterior portions of such
resources, including appropriate landscaping.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-13) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.14 HISTORICAL PRESERVATION COMMISSION REVIEW.
   All matters regarding property or sites situated within the Historical
Preservation District shall be reviewed and considered by the Historical
Preservation Commission prior to final action by the Metropolitan Area Planning
Commission, the Traffic Commission, the Board of Adjustment or the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-14) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.15 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Commission shall have such right
of appeal as may be otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-15) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.16 TAXES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as reason for an increased
valuation of property for purposes of ad valorem taxation because of historical
designation.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-16) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.17 PROPERTY OWNED BY PUBLIC AGENCIES.
   The requirements, provisions and purposes of this chapter shall apply to all
property owned by the city or any other public agency; provided, however,
designation pursuant to this chapter shall not affect the validity of prior
actions of the City Council approving plans, programs or authorizations for
public trusts, agencies or authorities of the city without an express amendment
of such plan, program or authority.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-17) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.18 EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES; REVIVAL.
   (A)   Neither the adoption of this chapter nor the repeal hereby of any
ordinance of the city shall in any manner affect the prosecution for violation
of ordinances, which violations were committed prior to the effective date due
and unpaid under such ordinance, not be construed as affecting any of the
provisions of such ordinance relating to the collection of any such license or
penalty or the penal provisions applicable to any violation thereof, not to
affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu thereof, required to be
posted, filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance, and all rights and
obligations thereof appertaining shall continue in full force and effect.
   (B)   Whenever any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or
provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to
revive such former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it shall be therein
so expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-18) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty imposed. All misdemeanors carry a possible fine up to $250,
except traffic offenses, per a schedule approved by the City Council in 2001.
   (B)   Limitation. The provisions of division (A) of this section
notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established by state
statute for the same offense.
   (C)   Each day separate offense. Except as otherwise provided, every day any
violation of this chapter or any other ordinance of the city or any rule,
regulation or order shall continue, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-19) (Ord. 563, passed 12-4-1990)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOME PARKS AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Park license or temporary permit
   
154.03   License fees and temporary permits; posting
   
154.04   Inspection of parks
   
154.05   Notice of violation; hearings and orders
   
154.06   Freestanding mobile home (MFG housing) location
   
154.07   Nonresidential mobile trailers
   
154.08   Park location, space and general layout
   
154.09   Park requirements
   
154.10   Alterations and additions
   
154.11   Registration of owners and occupants
   
154.12   Wrecked or damaged mobile homes, travel trailers
   
154.13   Minimum housing regulations for mobile homes
   
154.14   Mobile home subdivisions
   
154.15   Supervision of park
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath or shower. For purposes of regulation under this chapter, a DEPENDENT
MOBILE HOME shall be considered to be the same as a TRAVEL TRAILER, unless
otherwise specified.
   FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER. Any mobile home or travel
trailer not located in a mobile home park or travel trailer park or in an
approved mobile home subdivision.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated health authority of the city or his
or her authorized representative.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a flush toilet and a bath
or shower. Unless otherwise indicated in the text of this chapter, the term
“mobile home” shall mean an INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME.
   INSPECTION OFFICER. The city inspector of the City of Holdenville or his or
her authorized agent.
   LICENSEE. Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park
under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling consisting of one or more
components or of two or more units separately towable but designed to be joined
into one integral unit designed for towing or transport on streets and highways
on its own wheels, chassis or on flatbed or other trailers, both complete and
ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly
operations, location on jacks or permanent foundations, skirting, connection to
utilities and similar operations. Unless otherwise indicated in the text of
this chapter, the term MOBILE HOME shall refer to an “independent mobile home”
as defined in this section.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home, and not located on a mobile home sales
lot.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and intended for residential
use where residence is in mobile homes exclusively, and where mobile home lots
are sold for occupancy.
   NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER. Any vehicle having the basic characteristics
of either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale as indicated by a clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer.
   PARK. A mobile home or travel trailer park.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a temporary permit is issued to maintain or
operate a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter.
   PERSON. A natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM or PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. Any such system built and owned
by, or dedicated to and accepted by, the city; all other systems are private.
   RURAL. Any area shown on the city area general plan for suburban or rural
development and which is zoned agriculturally.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men
or women, and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities and
other facilities.
   SUBDIVISION. Mobile home subdivision, unless otherwise indicated.
   TRAILER PARK or TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or
more travel trailers, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   TRAVEL TRAILER or TRAILER. All vehicles and portable structures built on a
chassis, designed as a temporary or permanent dwelling for travel, recreational
and vacation use not included in the definition of independent mobile homes.
For purposes of regulation under this chapter, a “dependent mobile home” shall
be considered to be the same as a TRAVEL TRAILER, unless otherwise specified.
   TRAVEL TRAILER SPACE. A plot of ground within a travel trailer park designed
for accommodation of one travel trailer.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-1)
§ 154.02 PARK LICENSE OR TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   (A)   Annual park license; temporary permit. It is unlawful for any person
to construct, maintain or operate any mobile home park or travel trailer park
within the city limits unless he or she holds a valid license issued annually
by the City Clerk with the approval of the city inspector and the health
officer, in the name of such person for the specific mobile home park, except
that the maintenance or operation of a mobile home park or travel trailer park
in existence on the effective date of this chapter may be continued under a
temporary permit for such period of time and under such conditions as are
hereinafter described.
   (B)   Notify city of sale or transfer of ownership. Application shall be
made to the City Clerk, who shall issue a license upon compliance by the
applicant with all pertinent provisions of this and other ordinances and
regulations of the city. Every person holding such a license shall notify the
City Clerk in writing within 24 hours after having sold, transferred, given
away or otherwise disposed of interest in or control to the person succeeding
to the ownership or control of such mobile home park or travel trailer park.
   (C)   Application for original license; affidavit. Application for original
licenses shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and accompanied by an
affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the application, and shall
contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The interest of the applicant in and the location and legal
description of the park;
      (3)   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder; and
      (4)   Such further information as may be requested by the city inspector
and/or health officer.
   (D)   Renewal license application; contents. Applications for renewals of
licenses shall be made in writing by the holder of the license and shall
contain the following:
      (1)   Any change in the information submitted since the time the original
license was issued or the latest renewal granted; and
      (2)   Other information requested by the city inspector or health
officer.
   (E)   Park plan; information required. A complete plan, as required by
division (C)(3) of this section for the purpose of obtaining a license to be
issued, shall show:
      (1)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      (2)   The number, locations and size of all mobile home spaces or travel
trailer spaces;
      (3)   The location and width of roadways, walkways, buffer strips and
recreational areas;
      (4)   The locations of service buildings and other proposed structures;
      (5)   The location and size of utility and treatment facilities; and
      (6)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the park.
   (F)   Notice of violation; suspension of license. Whenever the health
officer or city inspector finds conditions existing in violation of this
chapter, or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, such officer shall give
notice in writing to the person to whom the license was issued that, unless
such conditions or practices be corrected within a reasonable period of time
specified in the notice, the license will be suspended. At the end of such
period, not to exceed 90 days, the city inspector or health officer shall
reinspect such park, and if such conditions or practices have not been
corrected, he or she shall suspend the license and give notice in writing of
such suspension to the person to whom the license was issued. Upon receipt of
notice of suspension, such person shall cease operation of such park.
   (G)   Hearing before Council; license revocation. Any person whose permit
has been denied, suspended or who has received notice from the city inspector
or health officer that his or her permit will be suspended unless certain
conditions or practices at the park are corrected, may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the City Council; provided, that when no
petition for such hearing shall have been filed within ten days following the
day on which notice of suspension was served, such license shall be deemed to
have been automatically revoked at the expiration of such ten-day period.
   (H)   Temporary permit. A temporary permit, upon written request therefor,
shall be issued by the City Clerk upon written approval of the inspection
officer and health officer for every mobile home park or travel trailer park in
existence upon the effective date of this chapter, permitting the park to be
maintained and operated during the period ending one year after the effective
date of this chapter without being subject to the provisions of this chapter
except such of the provisions as are made expressly applicable to permittees.
   (I)   Extension of term of temporary permit. The term of the temporary
permit may be extended, upon written request, for not to exceed one additional
period of up to 180 days if:
      (1)   The permittees shall have filed application for a license in
conformity with this chapter within one year after the effective date of this
chapter;
      (2)   The park plans and specifications accompanying the application for
license comply with all the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable
ordinances and statutes; and
      (3)   The permittee has diligently endeavored to make the existing park
conform fully to the plans and specifications submitted with the application
but has failed to do so due to circumstances beyond his or her control.
   (J)   Nonconforming spaces in parks. Mobile home parks and travel trailer
parks in existence upon the effective date of this chapter which have concrete
pads indicating the location of mobile home spaces or travel trailer spaces
need not comply with those sections of this chapter which would require the
moving of concrete pads. They must, however, comply with all other requirements
in accordance with divisions (H) and (I) of this section. In addition, any park
expansion shall be in full compliance with provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-2) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.03 LICENSE FEES AND TEMPORARY PERMITS; POSTING.
   (A)   License fee. The City Clerk shall charge and collect for each mobile
home park or travel trailer park an initial license or temporary permit of $30
per park. The initial license or temporary permit shall expire one year from
the date of issue, unless renewed upon such conditions as the City Council may
by ordinance direct. No charge shall be made for renewal of licenses.
   (B)   License or permit posted on premises. The license certificate or
temporary permit shall be conspicuously posted in the office of or on the
premises of the mobile home park or the travel trailer park at all times.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-3)
§ 154.04 INSPECTION OF PARKS.
   (A)   Inspections. The city inspector or health officer are hereby
authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the condition of
mobile home and travel trailer parks located within the city in order to
perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of mobile
home parks and of the general public.
   (B)   Outside premises. The city inspector and the health officer shall have
the power to inspect the outside premises of private or public property for the
purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions in relation to the
enforcement of this chapter or of regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (C)   Park register. The city inspector and the health officer shall have
the power to inspect any register containing a record of all mobile homes and
occupants using the park.
   (D)   Occupant to allow access. It is the duty of every occupant of a park
to give the owner thereof or his or her agent or employee access to any part of
the mobile home park or travel trailer park or their premises at reasonable
times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with this chapter or with any lawful regulations adopted
thereunder, or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-4)
§ 154.05 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Contents of notice. Whenever the city inspector or health officer
determines violations of this chapter or pertinent laws or ordinances exist, he
or she shall notify the owner or his or her agent of the alleged violation. The
notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will effect
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other pertinent regulations;
      (4)   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days, for the performance
of any act it requires; and
      (5)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require. The notice or order shall be deemed as properly served upon owner or
agent when a copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his or her last
known address.
   (B)   Hearing before City Judge and City Attorney. Any person affected by
any notice issued under this chapter or resulting regulation may request and
shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the City Judge and City
Attorney. Such person shall file with the city inspector or health officer a
written request for such hearing and setting forth briefly the grounds for such
request within ten days after the notice was served. When no request for such
hearing shall have been filed within ten days following the day on which notice
was served, a violation shall be deemed to have been automatically in existence
at the expiration of the ten-day period. The filing of the request shall not
stay the notice in cases of orders issued under this section. The hearing shall
be held by the City Judge and City Attorney at the earliest possible time.
   (C)   Findings; appeal to District Court. After the hearing, the city
inspector or health officer shall compile the findings of the City Judge and
City Attorney as to compliance with this chapter and pursuant regulations and
shall issue an order in writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the prior
notice which shall be served as provided in this section. Appeals from
decisions of the City Judge and City Attorney shall be to the District Court.
   (D)   Emergency; order for immediate action. Whenever the city inspector or
health officer finds that an emergency exists which requires immediate action
to protect the public health, the city inspector or health officer may, without
notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency
and requiring that such action be taken as he or she may deem necessary to meet
the emergency. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order
shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed
shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the City Council,
shall be afforded a hearing at the next regular meeting even if the agenda has
been completed.
   (E)   Notice of violation; license suspension. Whenever the health officer
in company of the city inspector finds conditions existing in violation of this
chapter, or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the city inspector
shall give notice in writing to the person to whom the license was issued, that
unless such conditions or practices be corrected within a reasonable period of
time specified in the notice, the license will be suspended. At the end of such
period, not to exceed 90 days, the city inspector or health officer shall
reinspect such park, and if such conditions or practices have not been
corrected, the city inspector shall suspend the license and give notice in
writing of such suspension to the person to whom the license was issued. Upon
receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall cease operation of such
park.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-5)
§ 154.06 FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME (MFG HOUSING) LOCATION.
   (A)   Conditions for location within city limits. Freestanding mobile homes
or travel trailers shall be permitted in the city limits, provided they have
been manufactured less than ten years from the time of placement within the
city. Those freestanding mobile homes which are nonconforming uses under the
provisions of this chapter may continue as nonconforming uses for five years,
their continued use exception prohibits their presence visible in front yards
or side yards abutting a street on corner lots. The city inspector shall have
authority to grant a waiver as to older mobile homes built in compliance with
the standards in effect on January 1, 1989.
   (B)   Homes and trailers offered for sale. Except for mobile homes or travel
trailers within regular commercial mobile or travel trailer sales lots, each
such freestanding mobile home or travel trailer offered for sale must be
clearly marked as such, and shall not be occupied for either living or sleeping
purposes. Freestanding mobile homes or travel trailers located within regular
commercial mobile home or travel trailer sales lots need be neither
individually marked for sale nor removed within 120 days if not sold. A
property owner shall not store, nor permit to be stored, more than one mobile
home or travel trailer on a residential lot.
   (C)   Permitted in rural areas. Freestanding mobile homes are permitted in
the city’s rural area, but only in agricultural zoning districts. Permits for
freestanding mobile homes shall be issued by the city inspector, but only when
the applicant agrees, in writing, to remove the mobile home within 120 days
after either the mobile home site is rezoned to a district other than
agricultural or is abutted within 660 feet by districts other than
agricultural. Such freestanding mobile homes must comply with all city
regulations.
   (D)   Occupancy permit required; inspection; fee.
      (1)   No manufactured housing or mobile home shall be installed within
the city limits without the owner first obtaining an occupancy permit prior to
the connection of any utilities.
      (2)   The city shall charge $35 and shall be paid only after inspection
and written approval by the city inspector to determine compliance with
construction requirements of division (E) of this section.
   (E)   Aesthetic requirements for all manufactured homes placed in the city
after January 1, 2010. Only manufactured housing (mobile homes) less than ten
years old on the date of placement meeting the following aesthetic criteria can
be placed on any residential lot in the city.
      (1)   General appearance. All homes must be in good condition, both
externally and internally; without significant blemishes or defects.
      (2)   Roof.
         (a)   The roof slope must be at least three inches to one foot (3:1).
         (b)   The roof must be a house type roof, i.e., shingles or raised
seam type metal roof (similar to an “R panel”).
         (c)   The roof must have a minimum six inch eave overhang.
      (3)   Siding.
         (a)   Siding must be made of a nonmetallic or non-masonite substance,
such as:
            1.   Smart panel or the substantial equivalent;
            2.   Hardiboard or the substantial equivalent; and
            3.   Vinyl type siding with a substantial backer (also known as
“backing”, “backer” or “solid core”).
         (b)   No aluminum or nonbacked vinyl siding is allowed.
      (4)   Skirting.
         (a)   All manufactured homes must have skirting with no open spaces.
         (b)   No tin, metal, plastic or vinyl skirting is allowed.
         (c)   Skirting must be poured concrete with #4 rebar or an insulated
skirting approved by the building inspector.
         (d)   Skirting must be constructed and attached in a manner that will
be reasonably impact resistant.
         (e)   Skirting must be complementary to the overall style, appearance
and color scheme of the exterior of the home.
         (f)   Skirting must be installed within 60 days of installation of the
manufactured home.
         (g)   Skirting must have venting.
            1.   Venting in the skirting must be no less than one square foot
of free vent space for every 150 square feet of floor area.
            2.   The vents must be placed in such a manner as to provide for
cross ventilation.
         (h)   Skirting shall have at least one access opening not less than 18
inches in any dimension and not less than three square feet in area. The access
opening shall be located so as to enable, to the extent reasonably possible,
the visual inspection of water supply and sewer drain connections.
         (i)   If a clothes dryer exhaust duct, air conditioning condensation
drain or combustion air inlet is present, these must pass through the skirting
to the outside.
   (F)   New units. With respect to new units, the dealer or seller shall be
responsible for proper site preparation and installation in conformity with
these requirements. The use of an independent contractor by the dealer does not
absolve or insulate the dealer from primary liability for compliance
responsibility hereunder.
   (G)   Site preparation. Proper site preparation (i.e., proper drainage away
from the home) is required. If the slope of the site drains through the site,
the insulated and approved skirting must be back supported at the bottom by
four inch concrete for one-half the building perimeter, facing the higher
elevation.
   (H)   Minimum installation requirements for all new and used manufactured
homes within the city limits.
      (1)   Footing/foundation systems. Allowable footings/foundation systems
are:
         (a)   Concrete base pads;
         (b)   Concrete runners;
         (c)   Concrete slabs; or
         (d)   Other preapproved system; as each is described below:
            1.   Concrete base pads are allowed if:
               a.   All debris, sod, tree stumps, vegetation and organic
materials have been removed from the entire area to be covered by the home;
               b.   The entire area to be covered by the home has a minimum 95%
compaction rate;
               c.   The interior base pads are a minimum size of 16 inches by
16 inches by four inches thick precast concrete or poured with #4 rebar (no
plastic or wood base pads);
               d.   The interior base pads must be placed maximum six feet on
center along each I-beam;
               e.   The perimeter pads must be placed a maximum 12 feet along
the exterior walls. Double wide installation shall have separate staggered pads
along the adjacent walls;
               f.   Perimeter and interior piers built on the base pads shall
be spaced and constructed as described in division (H)(2), “Pier Location,
Placement And Spacing”, of this section and/or the diagram “Pier Design”
attached to the ordinance codified herein. Essentially, double block units
alternating every six feet with single block units with staggered doubles along
the I-beams; and
               g.   No “soft” or “lightweight” concrete blocks shall be used.
Pier B-1 and B-2 designs are acceptable double block stacking unit designs for
interior installations required under I-beams. Pier A design is acceptable for
alternating interior stacking units and for perimeter usage. The pier design
diagrams identified above are attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated by reference as part of this section.
            2.   Concrete runners are allowed regardless of whether all debris,
sod, tree stumps, vegetation and organic materials are removed from the entire
area to be covered by the home, if:
               a.   The concrete runners are spaced at a maximum of six foot
intervals apart along the entire length of the home;
               b.   The concrete runners are poured a minimum of 18 inches deep
below the surface, and 12 inches wide with required rebar;
               c.   The concrete runners contain a minimum of three pieces of
#4 rebar evenly spaced to width and depth of the concrete runner; and
               d.   Piers built on the concrete runners shall be spaced and
constructed as described in division (H)(2), “Pier Location, Placement And
Spacing”, of this section and/or the diagram “Pier Design”, attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
            3.   Concrete slabs are allowed if the concrete slab is a minimum
of four inches thick. Piers built on the concrete slab shall be spaced and
constructed as described in division (H)(2), “Pier Location, Placement And
Spacing”, of this section and/or the diagram “Pier Design”, attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
            4.   In lieu of the above requirements, the city building inspector
(or the City Council) may, in his, her or its discretion, allow alternate
footing/foundation methods. Such alternate footing/foundation methods must meet
or exceed the home’s manufacturer requirements, and must be preapproved by the
city building inspector (or the City Council).
      (2)   Pier location, placement and spacing.
         (a)   All interior piers must be constructed a maximum of six feet on
center along each I-beam.
         (b)   All side wall openings greater than four feet shall have
perimeter piers located under each side of the opening (i.e., patio doors,
recessed porches/entries, bay windows and porch posts).
         (c)   Perimeter piers are waived where a skirting consists of poured
concrete with #4 rebar.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-6) (Ord. 728, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 154.07 NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS.
   (A)   License required; permitted use; compliance.
      (1)   No nonresidential mobile trailer shall be permitted in the city
unless a license for its operation is issued by the city inspector or health
officer.
      (2)   Specify permitted use. Such license shall specify the permitted use
of the nonresidential mobile trailer, the location of such operation and the
termination date of the license.
      (3)   No license shall be issued for a use which would violate any city
ordinance or state or federal law or regulation.
   (B)   License fee. A quarterly fee of $20 shall be charged for each
nonresidential mobile trailer license, which shall expire on January 31, April
30, July 31 or October 31 of each year, and be renewable on the first day of
each succeeding quarter thereafter.
   (C)   Contractors, construction projects. Operation of nonresidential
trailers by contractors on construction projects for which building permits
have been issued or which are otherwise approved by governmental units is
permitted during the term of such construction project without issuance of a
permit.
   (D)   Permanent location prohibited. This section is not to be construed as
permitting or authorizing the permanent location of any nonresidential mobile
trailer in the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-7)
§ 154.08 PARK LOCATION, SPACE AND GENERAL LAYOUT.
   (A)   Types; restrictions.
      (1)   Parks shall be of three types:
         (a)   Mobile home parks;
         (b)   Travel trailer parks; and
         (c)   Mixed mobile home and travel trailer parks.
      (2)   No dependent travel trailer shall be located in a mobile home park
and used for occupancy. In a mixed park, separate areas shall be reserved for
mobile homes and for travel trailers; no mobile home shall be permitted in the
travel trailer sector, and no travel trailer shall be permitted in the mobile
home sector.
   (B)   Site drainage. All mobile home parks shall be located on a well
drained site, properly graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from
stagnant pools of water; drainage shall not endanger any water supply.
   (C)   Park area. The minimum area of any park shall be two acres. However,
parks in existence on the effective date of this chapter may continue to
operate with less than two acres, but if the park is to be expanded it must at
that time have a minimum area of two acres.
   (D)   Intensity of development.
      (1)   Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than ten
mobile homes per gross acre for a mobile home park and no more than 15 travel
trailers per gross acre for a travel trailer park.
      (2)   Area used for sewerage treatment facilities shall not be included
in density computations.
      (3)   Mobile home spaces shall be at least 30 feet wide where pads are
closest to driveways. Travel trailer spaces shall be at least 25 feet wide
where travel trailers are located closest to the driveway.
   (E)   Spaces. Every mobile home space and travel trailer space shall be
clearly defined. Mobile homes and travel trailers shall be parked in such
spaces that at the nearest point they shall be 25 feet from the service road,
ten feet from the rear lot line, and at least 20 feet from any other mobile
home or travel trailer.
   (F)   Obstructing roadway or walkway. It is unlawful to locate a mobile home
or travel trailer less than 25 feet from any public street or highway right-of-
way or so that any part of such mobile home or travel trailer will obstruct any
roadway or walkway of such park.
   (G)   Parking in properly designated space. It is unlawful to permit a
mobile home to occupy a travel trailer space, a travel trailer to occupy a
mobile home space, and for any mobile home or travel trailer to be located in a
park unless in a designated mobile home space or travel trailer space.
   (H)   Driveways. All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a sealed surface
driveway of not less than 20 feet in width if on street parking is prohibited,
and 26 feet in width if on street parking is permitted on one side of the
street only. Driveways must have unobstructed access to a public street or
highway.
   (I)   Existing parks; parking allowances. In mobile home parks or travel
trailer parks existing at the effective date of this chapter, parking on or
adjacent to the street within the park is permissible so long as it does not
obstruct free movements of traffic. Whether or not a safety hazard exists is a
question to be determined by Code Enforcement. If Code Enforcement determines
that a safety hazard does in fact exist, the mobile home park or travel trailer
park concerned will be required to comply with division (J) of this section.
   (J)   New parks; parking requirements. In new mobile home parks, at least
two clearly defined parking spaces will be provided for each mobile home space
either on or adjacent to the mobile home space. In new travel trailer parks, at
least one parking space shall be provided for each space either on or adjacent
to the space.
   (K)   Clothes drying facilities. Clothes drying facilities shall be provided
in every mobile home park or travel trailer park. Mobile home parks shall have
at least one mechanical clothes drying unit in good condition; mechanical units
shall be located in a service building. Travel trailer parks and mixed parks
shall have at least one mechanical clothes drying unit for the first ten travel
trailer spaces or any fraction thereof and an additional unit for each ten
additional trailer spaces or fraction thereof.
   (L)   Driveway, walkway surface. All driveways and walkways within a park
shall be at least asphalt oilrock sealed surface.
   (M)   Ingress and egress to thoroughfares.
      (1)   In the city limits area, new mobile home parks should abut, and
have their major means of ingress and egress on at least a secondary
thoroughfare.
      (2)   Travel trailer parks and mixed parks in the city limits area should
abut and have their major means of ingress and egress on at least a primary
thoroughfare.
   (N)   Landscaping; screening. All mobile home parks shall provide a suitable
screening of landscaping, and also opaque fencing shall be installed where
abutting existing single-family residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-8)
§ 154.09 PARK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Service building for travel trailer parks.
      (1)   Each travel trailer park shall be provided with at least one
service building adequately equipped with flush type toilet fixtures and other
sanitary facilities as required in this chapter. No service building shall
contain less than one toilet for females, one toilet for males, one lavatory
and shower or bathtub for each sex, and one laundry tray. All sanitary
facilities required by this section shall be located in service buildings.
      (2)   Each park accommodating travel trailers shall provide the
following.
         (a)   Toilet facilities for males shall consist of not less than two
flush toilets and one urinal for the first ten travel trailers or fraction
thereof, and for travel trailers in excess of ten, not less than one additional
flush toilet and one additional urinal for every ten additional travel trailers
or fractional number thereof.
         (b)   Toilet facilities for females shall consist of not less than two
flush toilets for the first six travel trailer spaces or any less number
thereof, and for travel trailer spaces in excess of six, not less than one
additional flush toilet for every ten additional travel trailer spaces or
fractional number thereof in excess of six.
         (c)   Each sex shall be provided with not less than two lavatories and
two showers or bathtubs with individual dressing accommodations for the first
ten travel trailer spaces or any less number thereof, and for travel trailer
spaces in excess of ten, not less than one additional lavatory and one
additional shower or bathtub with individual dressing accommodations for every
ten additional travel trailer spaces or fractional number thereof.
         (d)   Each toilet for females and each shower or bathtub with
individual dressing accommodations for females shall be in a private
compartment or stall.
         (e)   The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and females
shall either be separate buildings or shall be separated, if in the same
building, by a soundproof wall.
         (f)   There shall be provided in a separate compartment or stall not
less than one flush toilet bowl receptacle for emptying bedpans and other
containers of human excreta or a slop sink with at least a three inch trap and
an adequate supply of hot running water for cleansing such bedpans or
containers.
      (3)   Travel trailer spaces shall not be more than 200 feet from a
service building.
      (4)   Service buildings shall:
         (a)   Be located 25 feet or more from any travel trailer space;
         (b)   Be of permanent construction, and be adequately lighted;
         (c)   Be of moisture resistant material, to permit frequent washing
and cleansing;
         (d)   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of
70°F during cold weather, and to supply adequate hot water during time of peak
demands; and
         (e)   Have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings effectively
screened.
      (5)   Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one laundry
unit to every 30 travel trailer spaces and shall be in a separate soundproof
room of a service building or in a separate building. A laundry shall consist
of not less than one clothes washing machine and one clothes drying machine.
      (6)   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be
maintained in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of any condition that
will menace the health of any occupant or the public or constitute a menace.
      (7)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the park restricts the facility
to exclude dependent mobile homes then divisions (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3) and (A)
(4) of this section shall not be required.
      (8)   If the park requires all units to have washer and dryer
connections, then division (A)(5) of this section shall not be required.
   (B)   Sewage disposal.
      (1)   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories,
slop sinks and laundries in service and other buildings within the park shall
be discharged into a public sewer and disposal plant, septic tank system or
private sewer and lagoon system of such construction and in such manner as
approved by the Oklahoma State Health Department and in accordance with all
applicable ordinances of the city.
      (2)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least a four-inch
sewer connection at least four inches above the surface of the ground. The
sewer connection should be protected by a concrete collar of at least four
inches thick and have a minimum outside diameter of 24 inches. The sewer
connection shall be fitted with a standard ferrule and close nipple and
provided with a screw cap. Connection between the mobile home drain and the
sewer must be watertight and self-draining. Mobile homes with fixtures from
which back siphonage may occur shall not be connected to the park’s water
system until the defect has been corrected.
      (3)   In the event that a public sewer system is or becomes available
within 300 feet of a mobile home park or travel trailer park, connection must
be made to the public system within 180 days.
      (4)   The design of private sewage treatment facilities shall be based on
the maximum capacity of the park. Effluents from sewage treatment facilities
shall not be discharged into any watershed. The disposal facilities shall be
located where they will not create a nuisance or health hazard to the mobile
home park or to the owner or occupants of any adjacent property. The Oklahoma
State Health Department must approve the type of treatment proposed and the
design of any disposal facilities and sewer systems prior to construction.
      (5)   Every mobile home occupying a mobile home park space shall tie into
the park sewerage system and shall dump any accumulated waste into the system.
Every dependent trailer shall dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle
provided in the travel trailer park upon entering and upon leaving the park.
Such receptacles must be approved by the Oklahoma State Health Department. Any
other dump of accumulated waste within the city is prohibited.
      (6)   The monthly sewerage charge shall be based on the maximum mobile
home or travel trailer capacity of the park. The park operator shall, by the
tenth of each month, notify the City Clerk of the city’s utility office of the
maximum number of mobile home spaces in use at any one time during the previous
month. The City Clerk shall then adjust the sewerage fee to the actual use of
the park. Should the park operator fail to notify the City Clerk of the prior
month’s actual usage of trailer or mobile home spaces, the sewerage fee shall
be levied on the maximum capacity of the park.
      (7)   Sewer connections shall be watertight. Park licensees shall
maintain trailer and mobile home connections to sewer and water systems in good
condition and be responsible that there is no sewerage or water leakage on the
park premises.
   (C)   Water supply.
      (1)   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each park, capable of furnishing a minimum of 250 gallons per day
per mobile home space. Where a public supply of water of such quality is
available within 300 feet or becomes available within 300 feet, connection
shall be made thereto within 180 days, and its supply shall be used
exclusively. Where private water supplies must be developed, the health officer
must approve the location, construction and development of both the water well
and pipe system and connections.
      (2)   The water system of the mobile home park shall be connected by
pipes to all buildings and mobile home spaces. Each mobile home shall be
provided with a cold water tap at least four inches above the ground. An
adequate supply of hot water shall be provided at all times in the service
buildings for all bathing, washing, cleansing and laundry facilities.
      (3)   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with state and local law; the water piping system shall not be connected with
nonpotable or questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back siphonage. All water connections shall be
weathertight.
      (4)   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be
of a type and in locations approved by the health officer.
      (5)   Individual water service connections which are provided for direct
use by mobile homes or travel trailers shall be of such construction so that
they will not be damaged by the parking of such mobile homes or travel
trailers. The park system shall be adequate to provide 20 pounds per square
inch of pressure at all mobile home or travel trailer connections.
      (6)   Provisions shall be made within 150 feet of such travel trailer
space to supply water for travel trailer reservoirs.
      (7)   No well casing, pumps, pumping machinery or suction pipes shall be
located in any pit, room or space extending below ground level, nor in any room
or space above ground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed, unless such
rooms, whether above or belowground, have free drainage by gravity to the
surface. All floors shall be watertight and sloped from the pump pedestal to
the drain, and floors shall extend at least two feet from the well in all
directions. The pedestal shall not be less than 12 inches above the floor. This
shall not be construed as prohibiting submersible pumps.
      (8)   All water storage reservoirs shall be watertight and constructed of
impervious material; all overflow and vents of such reservoirs shall be
effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be
constructed with overlapping covers so as to prevent the entrance of
contaminated material. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any
pipe in which sewage or polluted water may back up.
      (9)   Underground stop and wastecocks shall not be installed on any
connections.
      (10)   No water well shall draw water from any sands reserved to the city
for its use except as may be otherwise permitted by ordinances of the city.
   (D)   Refuse disposal.
      (1)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the park shall be
so managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
      (2)   All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight, rodentproof
containers, which shall be located within 150 feet of any mobile home space or
travel trailer space. Containers shall be so provided in sufficient numbers and
capacity to properly store all refuse.
      (3)   Racks or holders shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
container racks or holders shall be so designed as to prevent containers from
being tipped to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them. Lids for containers shall be permanently connected to
racks or holders with chains or other flexible materials.
      (4)   All refuse shall be collected at least twice weekly and as
otherwise required by the health officer. Where municipal garbage collection is
not available, the mobile home park operator shall either employ a private
agency or provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported
in covered vehicles or covered containers.
      (5)   Where municipal or other private disposal service is not available,
the mobile home park operator shall dispose of the refuse by burial, or
transporting to an approved disposal site, as directed by the health officer.
Refuse shall be buried only at locations and by methods approved by the city
inspector and in accordance with the ordinances of the city.
      (6)   When municipal refuse disposal service is available, it must be
used.
   (E)   Insect and rodent control.
      (1)   Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health as
required by the city inspector or health officer shall be applied in the mobile
home park or travel trailer park.
      (2)   Effective larvicidal solutions may be required by the city
inspector or health officer for fly or mosquito breeding areas which cannot be
controlled by other, more permanent measures.
      (3)   The city inspector or health officer may require the park operator
to take suitable measures to control other insects and noxious weeds.
      (4)   Accumulations of debris which may provide harborage for rodents
shall not be permitted in the mobile home park.
      (5)   When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to be in the
park, the park operator shall take definite action, as directed by the city
inspector or health officer to exterminate them.
   (F)   Electricity; exterior lighting.
      (1)   An electrical outlet supplying at least 100 amperes shall be
provided for each mobile home space. The installation shall comply with all
applicable state and local electrical codes and ordinances. Such electrical
outlets and extension lines shall be grounded and weatherproofed. Plug
receptacles shall also be grounded and weatherproofed. No power supply line
shall be permitted to lie on the ground, and no main power line shall be
suspended less than 18 feet above the ground, unless otherwise approved by the
city inspector.
      (2)   Streets and driveways within mobile home and travel trailer parks
shall be lighted with street lights meeting the current standards of the
illuminating engineering society or one-half candlepower, whichever is higher.
   (G)   Fuel storage tanks, piping. All piping from outside fuel storage tanks
or cylinders to mobile homes shall be of acceptable material as determined by
the city inspector and shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in
place. All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in place
and shall not be located inside or beneath the mobile home or less than five
feet from any mobile home exit.
   (H)   Litter; water; fires.
      (1)   Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable materials.
      (2)   Where the water supply system does not provide at least six-inch
water mains, there shall be provided a two-inch frost protected water riser
within 300 feet of each mobile home or building.
      (3)   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other cooking or heating
equipment intended for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-9) (Ord. 734, passed 11-3-2009)
§ 154.10 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   Plumbing and electrical. All plumbing and electrical alterations or
repairs in the park shall be made in accordance with the applicable regulations
of the city.
   (B)   Skirting of mobile homes. Skirting of mobile homes is permissible, but
areas enclosed by such skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a
harborage for rodents or create a fire hazard.
   (C)   Mobile home construction or alterations; permit.
      (1)   A permit issued by the city inspector shall be required before any
construction on a mobile home space or any structural addition or alteration to
the exterior of a mobile home takes place.
      (2)   No construction or addition or alteration to the exterior of a
mobile home located in a mobile home park shall be permitted unless of the same
type of construction or materials as the mobile home is effected.
      (3)   All such construction, additions or alterations shall be in
compliance with applicable local and state laws.
      (4)   No permit shall be required for the addition of steps, canopies,
awning or antennas.
   (D)   Storage structure. No structure other than a mobile home shall be
permitted on a mobile home space except one structure, not to exceed 210 cubic
feet, to be used for storage on each space.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-10)
§ 154.11 REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   Each licensee or permittee shall keep a register containing a record of all
mobile home and travel trailer owners and occupants located within the park.
The register shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the owner or occupant of each mobile home and
motor vehicle by which it is towed;
   (B)   The make, model, year and license of each mobile home and motor
vehicle;
   (C)   The state, territory or country issuing such license;
   (D)   The date of arrival and of departure of each mobile home;
   (E)   Whether or not each mobile home is a dependent or independent mobile
home; and
   (F)   Each mobile home or travel trailer shall be identified while in a park
space by some clear, legible and orderly external method of identification or
numbering system.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-11)
§ 154.12 WRECKED OR DAMAGED MOBILE HOMES, TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   Wrecked, damaged or dilapidated mobile homes and travel trailers shall not
be kept or stored in a mobile home park or travel trailer park. The health
officer shall determine if a mobile home or travel trailer is damaged or
dilapidated to a point which makes the mobile home or travel trailer unfit for
human occupancy on either a temporary or permanent basis. Whenever such a
determination is made, the mobile home or travel trailer shall be vacated and
removed from the premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-12)
§ 154.13 MINIMUM HOUSING REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Compliance with Housing Code. Every mobile home located in either a
mobile home park, a mobile home subdivision, or as a freestanding mobile home,
shall meet the provisions of the housing code of the city except as may be
otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   Dependent mobile homes. Dependent mobile homes shall not be required
to have a flush toilet or a bath or shower.
   (C)   Exceptions. The Housing Code shall not apply to travel trailers
insofar as floor area, flush toilet, bath or shower, and ceiling height is
concerned.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-13)
§ 154.14 MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Size. The minimum size of mobile home subdivision shall be ten acres.
   (B)   Residences. No residences except mobile homes shall be permitted in a
mobile home subdivision.
   (C)   Lot width.
      (1)   Minimum effective lot width in a mobile home subdivision shall be
40 feet measured at the front building line and minimum lot areas shall be
4,000 square feet; provided, that at least a five foot side yard shall be
provided on each lot beyond any mobile home and additions thereto, and further
provided that in areas not serviced by a public sewer, the minimum additional
lot area shall be determined by the health officer on the basis of safe and
sanitary sewer service.
      (2)   The effective lot width of a mobile home shall be determined, for
interior lots, by measuring at right angles across the lot from one diagonal
side line to the other, and for corner lots, the measurements shall be made at
right angles from the diagonal having the greatest divergence from
perpendicular to the street, through the midpoint of the rear line of the
required front yard, to the opposite lot line or an extension thereof.
   (D)   Side lines of lots. Side lines of lots in mobile home subdivisions
need not be at right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street
lines.
   (E)   Abutting public street. Regardless of the effective lot width, mobile
home subdivision lots must abut a public street for at least 25 feet.
   (F)   Greenbelt planting strip. All mobile home subdivisions shall have a
greenbelt planting strip not less than 20 feet in width along all subdivision
boundaries. Such greenbelt shall be composed of one row of deciduous or
evergreen trees, spaced not more than 40 feet apart, and not less than three
rows of shrubs spaced not more than eight feet apart and which grow to a height
of five feet or more after one full growing season and which shrubs will
eventually grow to a height of not less than 12 feet.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-14)
§ 154.15 SUPERVISION OF PARK.
   The licensee or permittee, or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker,
shall be in charge at all times to keep the mobile home park, its facilities
and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or
caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee or permittee, for the
violation of any provision of this chapter to which the licensee or permittee
is subject.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-15)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-16)
CHAPTER 155: PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS DRILLING
Section
   
155.01   Compliance with chapter
   
155.02   Board of Control; rules and regulations
   
155.03   Drilling permit required; fee
   
155.04   Bond
   
155.05   Annual fee for producing well
   
155.06   Limit on number of wells
   
155.07   Drilling and operation requirements and restrictions
   
155.08   Certain plants and devices prohibited
   
155.09   Drilling inside city limits restricted
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   It is an offense for any person, firm or corporation to engage in drilling
for oil or gas within the corporate limits of the city in violation of the
terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-1) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.02 BOARD OF CONTROL; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Board created; authority. There is hereby created what is hereby
designated as a Board of Control to be composed of the Mayor, Chief of the Fire
Department and city inspector. This Board of Control is hereby given authority
to promulgate rules and regulations to augment this chapter relating to proper
drilling and operation of oil and gas wells, and to more fully supplement and
carry out the performance of this chapter. Such rules and regulations shall not
be binding on any drilling or operating well within the limits of the city
until a copy has been furnished to such owner or his or her agent. However such
rules and regulations, when established, and served on the owner of any well or
his or her agent, shall be binding upon same.
   (B)   Rules and regulations. The following are rules and regulations adopted
by the Board of Control.
      (1)   Any oil pipeline company desiring to transport and convey oil from
any producing oil well within the limits of the city shall pay to the city the
sum of $0.50 per rod for laying a pipeline within the corporate limits of the
city, same to be paid before permit is issued.
      (2)   No blacktop or paving shall be cut in laying pipeline, but in
crossing any improved street, such improved pavement shall be drilled
underneath.
      (3)   All pipeline laid within the city shall be laid in the alleys,
except when necessary to cross a street, and shall be buried 18 inches below
the bar ditch level. This means that the top of the pipe shall be 18 inches
below the bar ditch level.
      (4)   The pipe shall be laid in the alley near the edge of the alley and
the loose dirt shall be packed so that city sanitary trucks in using the alley
will not get stuck.
      (5)   If necessary to lay any oil pipeline along any street, the same
shall be laid in the parking lane, and the top of the casing shall be buried 12
inches below ground level. Shade trees shall not be cut or removed in laying
such pipeline without the written consent of the owner of adjacent property.
      (6)   Any damages committed to other easement owners, or to any city
property, or private property shall be paid for by the pipeline company.
      (7)   If any pipeline breaks causing a leakage of oil into the ground, it
shall not be allowed to escape into any of the drainage ditches, waterways or
sewers within the city limits but shall be hauled off and deposited outside of
the city.
      (8)   Any pipeline to be laid through any of the public parks belonging
to the city or across any school property shall require a special permit from
the governing body having the control of such property.
      (9)   When any pipeline is removed, the pipeline company shall refill the
ditch, and pack it, and shall leave all ground level as before. The pipeline
company, while in the process of removing any lines, shall pay all damages
arising from the removal of same, whether the damages have been suffered by the
city or by other easement holders, or by private individuals.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-2)
§ 155.03 DRILLING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Permit required. Any person, firm or corporation desiring to drill a
well for oil and gas mining purposes within the city shall first obtain a
permit from the City Clerk therefor.
   (B)   Fee. The fee for such permit to drill shall be $100, and such fee
shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time permit is issued.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-3)
§ 155.04 BOND.
   (A)   Bond required; amount. Before any permit shall be issued, the
applicant therefor shall first furnish a bond covering the drilling and
operation of such well, running to the city, for the use and benefit of persons
injured or property damaged, to the effect that the applicant will pay and
discharge any liability for damage to such property or injured persons, such
bond to be in the amount of not less than $20,000.
   (B)   Term of bond. The bond shall be for a term of one year, but may be
canceled if the well drilled is plugged within less time than one year, and the
slush pits, sump pits, and cellars are leveled up and premises put in good
condition, as hereinafter set out.
   (C)   Blanket bond. Should any applicant determine to drill a number of
wells within the city, a blanket bond may be furnished to cover the drilling
and operation of all of such wells, in the total amount of $40,000.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-4)
§ 155.05 ANNUAL FEE FOR PRODUCING WELL.
   The owner of any producing well within the city shall pay an annual fee of
$25 to the city for repayment to the city for the cost of supervising the
operation of such well, and seeing that such well is being operated in
compliance with this chapter, and in such manner as not to be a hazard to
property or persons.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-5)
§ 155.06 LIMIT ON NUMBER OF WELLS.
   It is unlawful, and an offense, for any person, firm or corporation to drill
more than one well for petroleum or natural gas on any one block in the city.
In unplatted tracts or areas, only one well shall be drilled on each five acres
in area. A well may be drilled on any unplatted area of two and one-half acres,
and less than five acres, if it be shown that such area cannot be included in a
five acre tract through any reasonable efforts.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-6) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07 DRILLING AND OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Drilling near church, school. No well shall be drilled within a
distance of 500 feet of any church building, school building, hospital or other
public building, without the express written consent of the governing body of
such church, school, hospital or other public property and no tanks, wells,
pipelines, pits, tools, equipment or any other accessories shall be located on
any church property, school property, hospital property or other public
property without the express written consent of the governing body of such
church, school or other public property.
   (B)   Construction of derricks. All derricks used in drilling for oil or
gas, as contemplated under this chapter, shall be of steel construction on a
foundation of concrete, and shall be braced by guy wires or cables running from
near the top of the derrick to concrete ground moorings.
   (C)   Preventing escape of gas. Separators or other devices shall be used at
each producing well to prevent spraying of oil or gas. No gas shall be
permitted to escape but shall be kept under control as defined hereinafter.
   (D)   Construction of buildings. Any buildings, either to be used
temporarily during the drilling of a well or for permanent construction during
the operation of any well, shall be constructed of noncombustible materials,
and the details for the location and construction of such buildings shall be
according to rules and regulations established by the Board of Control.
   (E)   Removal, burning or drainage of waste.
      (1)   After the drilling of any well, all waste shall be removed from the
premises, and the ground shall be leveled as before drilling; and any well that
proves to be a producer shall be surrounded by a substantial fence, as provided
by the rules established by the Board of Control.
      (2)   No base sediment, refuse or waste substances shall be burned within
the city but must be carried off or disposed of outside of the city.
      (3)   No waste from any drilling or producing well shall be allowed to
drain into any sewer, or open water drainage ditch, or on any street, alley or
gutter within the city.
   (F)   Electric motors used in pumping wells. In the production of any well
inside of the city limits, only electric motors may be used in the pumping of
such wells.
   (G)   Encasement of salt water disposal well. If any salt water disposal
well is used for the disposal of salt water, such well shall be encased from
the surface of the ground to a depth of 250 feet in such a manner as to prevent
the salt water from contaminating any fresh water to such depth.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-7)
§ 155.08 CERTAIN PLANTS AND DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   No casinghead gasoline plants, cracking plants or devices used for
separating natural gasoline from natural gas shall be erected or operated at
any time within the corporate limits of the city nor shall casinghead gasoline
be stored within the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-8)
§ 155.09 DRILLING INSIDE CITY LIMITS RESTRICTED.
   It is unlawful for any oil operator, individual oil company or person to
drill for oil or gas inside the city limits on any drilling unit or location
unless 50% of the total acreage inside the drilling unit or location has been
voluntarily leased by the lawful record owners to oil operators, oil and gas
brokers, oil companies, or to a person engaged in the oil and gas business.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-9) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any
act required by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when such
provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-10)
CHAPTER 156: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
Flood Damage Prevention
   
156.01   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose and methods
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   General provisions
   
156.04   Administration
   
156.05   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
Floodplain Rules
   
156.20   Building permit required; site review
   
156.21   Subdivision review
   
156.22   Water and sewer system design
 
   
156.99   Penalty
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 156.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the state has in Oklahoma
Floodplain Management Act, 82 O.S. §§ 1601 through 1620.1, delegated the
responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the city does ordain as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter uses the following methods:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1) (Ord. 854, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Structures which are on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure, but not limited to, garages and storage sheds.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH or VO zone on a
community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed
ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, A1-99, VO, VI-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building, which has
its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as Zones A,
M, and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the federal emergency management agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See definition of FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOOD or FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See definition of REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See definition of AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before “start of construction” of the improvement. This term
includes structures, which have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of
the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)
(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5)of the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2) (Ord. 854, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 156.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency management agency in
the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) panel 40063C0275C is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of these regulations and any revisions
thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
   (C)   Establishment of development permit. A floodplain development permit
shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by human-
made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas
of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3) (Ord. 854, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 156.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The City Council
designates Code Enforcement as the Floodplain Administrator to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of 44
C.F.R. (emergency management and assistance - National Flood Insurance Program
regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties
and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review the permit application to determine whether to ensure that
the proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured
homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is
required;
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency, Oklahoma Water Resources Board, prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
federal emergency management agency;
      (7)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
156.03(B) of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review
and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data
available from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the
provisions of §
156.05 of this chapter;
      (9)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community;
      (10)   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601
through 1620.1, as amended;
      (11)   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the city, determine if the residential and nonresidential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement; and
      (12)   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the City Council.
   (C)   Permit procedures.
      (1)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented
to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
location, dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed;
         (c)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of §
156.05(B)(3)(b) of this chapter;
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (e)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
division (B)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (b)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (c)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (d)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (e)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (f)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         (g)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         (h)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (i)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
         (j)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
   (D)   Variance procedures.
      (1)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      (4)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
      (5)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      (6)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in division (C)(2) of this section
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (7)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (§
156.01(C) of this chapter).
      (8)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (9)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (10)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
         (a)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (c)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (11)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided that:
         (a)   The criteria outlined in divisions (D)(1) through (D)(9) of this
section are met; and
         (b)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4) (Ord. 854, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 156.05 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      (1)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (4)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in:
      (1)   Section 156.03(B) of this chapter;
      (2)   Section 156.04(B)(8) of this chapter; or
      (3)   Division (C)(3) of this section, the following provisions are
required.
         (a)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement), elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this
division (B) as proposed in §
156.04(C)(1)(a) of this chapter, is satisfied.
         (b)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one
foot above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division (B). A record of such certification which includes the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (c)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria.
            1.   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding shall be provided.
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
         (d)   Manufactured homes.
            1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within the
SFHA on a community’s FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over
the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
            2.   a.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or
substantially improved within Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM
on sites:
                  i.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
                  ii.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
                  iii.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or
                  iv.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I-beam
of the manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
               b.   This requirement is in addition to applicable state and
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces. The home shall be
installed by a licensed installer according to state law and compliance
herewith shall be certified in writing to the Floodplain Administrator by said
installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
            3.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with
Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of this division (B)(3)(d) of this section be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I-beam of the manufactured
home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (e)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed
on sites within zones A, A1-30, AH and AE on the Hughes County FIRM either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements of §
156.04(C) of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
“manufactured homes” in division (B)(3)(d) of this section. A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
         (f)   Accessory structure. Accessory structures to be placed on sites
within Zones A and AE on the Hughes County FIRM shall comply with the
following:
            1.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited
storage;
            2.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
Prohibited activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working,
sleeping, living, cooking or restroom use;
            3.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
            4.   Structures shall be small in size, not exceed 600 square feet
in size;
            5.   Structures exceeding 600 square feet in size will be required
to meet all applicable standards of §§
156.03(C), 156.04(C) of this chapter, and divisions (A) and (B) of this section
including relevant divisions;
            6.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
must be elevated to or above the BFE plus one foot freeboard;
            7.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
            8.   The structure shall be considered low in value, designed to
have low flood damage potential and constructed with flood resistance
materials;
            9.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse and lateral movement;
            10.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
            11.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall
be provided below the BFE; and be placed on opposing walls with the net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of the size of the
footprint of the structure (flood vents);
            12.   The openings (flood vents) shall be located no higher than
one foot above grade; and
            13.   The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
   (C)   Standards for subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §
156.01(B), (C) and (D) of this chapter.
      (2)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
156.03(C); 156.04(C) of this chapter; and the provisions of this section.
      (3)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
156.03(B) or 156.04(B)(8) of this chapter.
      (4)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      (5)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
   (D)   Severability. If any section, clause, sentence or phrase of this
chapter is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then said holding shall in no way affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter.
   (E)   Fee schedule. The City Council establishes the following fee schedule
not to exceed $500 for any one service:
      (1)   Notice of intent fee. Twenty-five dollar maximum;
      (2)   Floodplain development permit application review. One hundred
dollars;
      (3)   Floodplain development permit fee. Twenty five dollars;
      (4)   Inspection fee; per inspection. Twenty five dollars; and
      (5)   Variance request filing fee. Twenty five dollars.
   (F)   Certification of adoption. It is hereby found and declared by the city
that severe flooding has occurred in the past within its jurisdiction and will
certainly occur within the future; that flooding is likely to result in
infliction of serious personal injury or death, and is likely to result in
substantial injury or destruction of property within its jurisdiction; in order
to effectively comply with minimum standards for coverage under the National
Flood Insurance Program, and in order to effectively remedy the situation
described herein, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and this chapter,
being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health and
safety, shall be in full force and effect and after its passage and approval.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5) (Ord. 854, passed 2-21-2017)
FLOODPLAIN RULES
§ 156.20 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; SITE REVIEW.
   (A)   Permit required. No person, firm, corporation, partnership,
association or any other legal entity shall construct or cause to be
constructed any structure or substantial improvement to any structure
(residential, industrial, commercial or otherwise) without first obtaining a
permit to construct same from the building permit agent of the city, which
office is hereby created and shall be filled by appointment by Code
Enforcement.
   (B)   Site review. A building permit shall be issued by the City Clerk only
after the building permit agent has determined that the proposed building site
is reasonably safe from flooding; or if a flood hazard exists, any proposed new
construction or substantial improvement (including prefabricated and mobile
homes) must:
      (1)   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Use construction materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage; and
      (3)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-1)
§ 156.21 SUBDIVISION REVIEW.
   Proposed subdivisions and land use areas shall be reviewed to assure that:
   (A)   All proposals for construction provide for methods to minimize flood
damage;
   (B)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewerage, gas, electrical
service and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage; and
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided for, so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-2)
§ 156.22 WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM DESIGN.
   All new or replacement water supply systems or sanitary sewerage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems and discharges from the systems into the floodwaters.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-3)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Provisions for flood hazard reduction. No structure or land shall
hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted or altered without full
compliance with the terms of this court order and other applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this court order by failure to comply with any
of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this court order or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than one year, or both, for each violation, and in
addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the City Council or its City Attorney from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5)
   (C)   Whoever undertakes construction of a structure without first obtaining
a permit as provided for in §§
156.20 through
156.22 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-4)
(Ord. 854, passed 2-21-2017)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
R1-Z Single-Family Residential Zoning District
   
157.001   Purpose
   
157.002   Uses permitted
   
157.003   General regulations
R-1 One-Family Dwelling District
   
157.015   Generally
   
157.016   General uses
   
157.017   Accessory and conditional uses
   
157.018   Area regulations
   
157.019   Height regulations
R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District
   
157.030   Generally
   
157.031   General uses
   
157.032   Accessory uses
   
157.033   Conditional uses
   
157.034   Area regulations
   
157.035   Height regulations
R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District
   
157.050   Generally
   
157.051   General uses
   
157.052   Accessory uses
   
157.053   Conditional uses
   
157.054   Area regulations
   
157.055   Height regulations
R-4 Townhouse Dwelling District
   
157.070   Generally
   
157.071   General uses
   
157.072   Accessory uses
   
157.073   Conditional uses
   
157.074   Area regulations
   
157.075   Height regulations
   
157.076   Townhouse definition
   
157.077   Floor area
   
157.078   Exception to subdivision code; lot sizes
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
   
157.090   Generally
   
157.091   General uses
   
157.092   Accessory uses
   
157.093   Area regulations
   
157.094   Height regulations
   
157.095   Accessory uses
C-2 General Commercial District
   
157.110   Generally
   
157.111   Accessory uses
   
157.112   Area regulations
   
157.113   Height regulations
   
157.114   Accessory uses
C-3 Commercial District
   
157.125   Generally
   
157.126   General uses
   
157.127   Accessory uses
   
157.128   Area regulations
   
157.129   Signs
   
157.130   Accessory uses
H-C Highway Commercial District
   
157.145   Generally
   
157.146   General uses
   
157.147   Accessory uses
   
157.148   Special exception uses
   
157.149   Area regulations
   
157.150   Height regulations
   
157.151   Signs
   
157.152   Nonconforming uses
I-1 Light Industrial District
   
157.165   Generally
   
157.166   General uses
   
157.167   Accessory uses
   
157.168   Area regulations
   
157.169   Signs
   
157.170   Height regulations
I-2 Restricted Light Industrial District
   
157.185   Generally
   
157.186   General uses
   
157.187   Accessory uses
   
157.188   Conditional uses
   
157.189   Area regulations
   
157.190   Signs
   
157.191   Height regulations
I-3 Heavy Industrial District
   
157.205   Generally
   
157.206   General uses
   
157.207   Accessory uses
   
157.208   Conditional uses
   
157.209   Area regulations
   
157.210   Signs
   
157.211   Height regulations
A-1 Agricultural District
   
157.225   Generally
   
157.226   General uses
   
157.227   Accessory uses
   
157.228   Conditional uses
   
157.229   Area regulations
   
157.230   Height regulations
T-1 Transitional District
   
157.245   Generally
   
157.246   General uses
   
157.247   Accessory uses
   
157.248   Area regulations
   
157.249   Height regulations
R1-Z SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
§ 157.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Within the R1-Z Single-Family Residential Zoning District, a zero lot
line development is allowed. The intent of the R1-Z District is to permit and
establish regulations for comprehensively planned single-family tracts with
zero side yard building setbacks (in R1-Z zoned districts only).
   (B)   The principal purposes of the zero lot line concept are:
      (1)   The more efficient use of land, as compared with the typical
single-family development, making available needed housing at an affordable
cost;
      (2)   The design of dwellings to integrate and relate internal/external
living areas resulting in more pleasant and enjoyable living facilities; and
      (3)   By placing the dwelling against one of the property lines,
permitting the outdoor space to be group and utilized to its maximum benefit.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.002 USES PERMITTED.
   The following uses are permitted in this District:
   (A)   Attached single-family dwellings (a maximum of two attached units). No
mobile homes;
   (B)   Detached, zero lot line, one-family dwelling; and
   (C)   Infill housing with a minimum of two side by side lots; provided that
the zero lot line side is not facing the adjacent non-zero lot line property.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.003 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Property and buildings in the R1-Z District shall be subject to the
following area regulations.
   (A)   Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size shall be 4,000 square feet.
This shall not include any credit for streets, recreational area and common
open space or water bodies.
   (B)   Dwelling unit setback. The minimum lot size shall be 4,000 square
feet. This shall not include any credit for streets, recreational arm and
common open space or water bodies.
      (1)   Interior side yard. The dwelling unit may be placed on one interior
side property line with a zero feet setback and the dwelling unit setback on
the other interior side property line shall be a minimum of ten feet, excluding
the connecting elements such as fences, wall and trellises. Covered porches,
covered patios and storage spaces which are connected to the principal
structure may not encroach into this ten-foot side yard.
      (2)   Front setback. All habitable parts of a dwelling must be set back a
minimum of 20 feet from the front property line, while garages may be set back
a minimum of ten feet based upon the approval by the Planning Commission and
its approval of the site plan. Garage setbacks of less than 20 feet must have
an entrance parallel to the street or be approved by the Planning Commission as
part of the site plan review process. An adequate driveway turning radius shall
be provided for the structure.
      (3)   Rear setback. The dwelling setback shall be a minimum of 15 feet
from the rear property line. When a garage is located in the rear of the
property, the rear setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet.
      (4)   Side street setback. The side street setback shall be a minimum of
15 feet from the property line on the street side.
   (C)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 40 feet.
   (D)   Minimum lot coverage permitted. The total lot coverage permitted for
all buildings on the site shall not exceed 60% of the lot area (140 x 40 =
5,600 = 3,360 square foot house). Temporary storage structures are not included
in this coverage percent.
   (E)   Building height. No building shall exceed two stories and 35 feet in
height. Upper story windows shall not face onto an adjacent property owner’s
private space, or toward the zero lot line side.
   (F)   Street frontage. Each lot shall abut upon a clear, direct frontage of
a dedicated city street. The zero lot line must abut upon the street line for a
distance of not less than 30 feet.
   (G)   Platting requirements. Each dwelling shall be located on its own
individual platted lot. If areas for common use of occupants of the development
are shown on the plat, satisfactory arrangements shall be made for the
maintenance of the common open space and facilities, in the form of a
neighborhood association. The plat shall indicate the zero lot lines and
easements appurtenant thereto.
   (H)   Openings prohibited on the zero lot line side. The wall of the
dwelling located on the zero lot line side must be constructed of maintenance
free, solid decorative masonry and have no openings.
   (I)   No portion of the dwelling or architectural features projects over any
property line. The structure shall be offset in such a manner that eaves,
overhangs or any architectural features shall not encroach on the adjoining.
All yard areas on the zero lot line side, part of which may result due to the
placement of the foundation off the property line shall be fenced by the
property owner but shall be reserved for use by the adjoining property owner.
Any adjoining property owner may fence in an area up to the zero lot line of
the adjacent lot in order to contain the owner’s side yard.
   (J)   Maintenance easement. A perpetual five-foot maintenance easement shall
be provided on the lot adjacent to the zero lot property line, which, with the
exception of walls and/or fences, shall be kept clear of structures. This
easement shall be shown on the plat and incorporated into each deed
transferring title to the property. The wall shall be maintained in its
original color and treatment unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the two
affected lot owners. The roof shall be so designed that water runoff from the
dwellings placed on the zero lot line drains onto the owner’s property.
   (K)   Utility easement. Due to the increased densities and compactness of
zero lot line developments, the location of utilities constitutes special
consideration. In order to ensure adequate access to maintain utilities, it is
necessary to place utilities in the front yard easement, street or combination.
However, a rear yard utility easement is allowed when a rear drive or rear open
space easement is provided.
   (L)   Off-street parking. A minimum of two paved off-street parking spaces
shall be provided on each platted zero lot line lot. Paved parking must consist
of either concrete, asphalt or brick pavers.
   (M)   Accessory buildings and structures.
      (1)   Accessory buildings and structures shall be located within the
street abutting side yard.
      (2)   No accessory building or structures shall be located within five
feet of a dwelling or another accessory building or within five feet of any
property line.
      (3)   No accessory building or structure shall exceed ten feet in height
without approval from the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (N)   Trees. There shall be a minimum requirement of one tree for each
platted lot in order to enhance private space. In addition, street shade trees
shall be provided along each side of the roadways at a minimum spacing of 40
feet in order to enhance the streetscape. This shall be in addition to the one
tree required for each platted lot. Placement shall be determined by utility
easement location.
   (O)   Fire protection. Walls on side yards shall have a minimum of one hour
rated sheet rock installed and roofs shall be of flame resistant material and
wooden, cedar shingle roofs are prohibited.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
R-1 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 157.015 GENERALLY.
   The characteristics of the R-1 District are a quiet, low density area for
single-family living, with related recreational, religious and educational
facilities, protected from all commercial and industrial activity.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.016 GENERAL USES.
   The general uses in the R-1 District are:
   (A)   Single-family homes. No mobile homes;
   (B)   Child care centers;
   (C)   Public and parochial schools and colleges, not including industrial
trade schools;
   (D)   Public libraries;
   (E)   Nurseries, greenhouses and truck gardens; provided that no products
are sold retail and delivered on the premises;
   (F)   Parks, playgrounds and open spaces; and
   (G)   Bulleting board or sign, not exceeding 20 square feet in area
appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, which board
or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired or sold.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.017 ACCESSORY AND CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The accessory uses in the R-1 District are other accessory uses that
are incidental permitted uses, and not detrimental to the adjacent property or
the character of the zone:
      (1)   Guest house and employees’ quarters;
      (2)   Private garages;
      (3)   Barns; and
      (4)   Sheds.
   (B)   The following uses may be permitted only if authorized by obtaining a
conditional use permit as provided in this chapter, or after the Planning
Commission has approved the site plan:
      (1)   Churches;
      (2)   Public buildings and uses of non-industrial nature;
      (3)   Cemetery;
      (4)   Public open off-street parking lot, when necessary, for services of
surrounding area;
      (5)   Fire and police stations;
      (6)   Utility substations;
      (7)   Golf courses, except miniature and commercial driving range; and
      (8)   Communication towers must be freestanding, not in excess of 100
feet in height.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.018 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations in the R-1 District are as follows.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way
lines to comply with the following front yard requirements:
      (1)   Minimum depth of front yard, 25 feet;
      (2)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be provided on both streets; and
      (3)   If 25% or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets are improved with buildings, all of which have observed an
average setback line of no greater than 25 feet, and building varies more than
five feet from this average setback line, then no building shall be erected
closer to the street line than the minimum setback so established by the
existing buildings, but this regulation shall not require a front yard of
greater depth than 40 feet.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Minimum for one story dwellings: five feet.
      (2)   Minimum for more than one story dwellings: ten feet.
      (3)   Minimum for unattached building of accessory use: five feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lots: 15 feet.
      (5)   Minimum setback from all exterior and interior side lot lines for
churches and main and accessory buildings other than dwellings and buildings
accessory to dwellings: 35 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. Minimum read yard except where an alley is platted: ten
feet.
   (D)   Lot width. Minimum lot width at building line: 60 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   Minimum lot area is 7,000 square feet.
      (2)   Where a lot has less area than herein required and all the boundary
tines of that lot touch lands under other ownership on the initial effective
date of this chapter, that lot may be used for any of the uses except churches
permitted by this section.
      (3)   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off-street areas required in
this chapter.
      (4)   Minimum space between unconnected buildings on the same lot is 15
feet.
   (F)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 25%
of the lot area on interior lots, and 30% of the lot area on corner lots;
accessory buildings shall not cover more than 20% of the rear yard.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Buildings shall be provided with a paved yard area
adequate to meet the off-street parking requirements (minimum of two cars) set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.019 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height
except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
R-2 TWO-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 157.030 GENERALLY.
   The characteristics of the R-2 District are quiet, slightly higher
population density area for family living, with basic restrictions similar to
the R-1 District, protected from all commercial and industrial activity.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.031 GENERAL USES.
   Property and buildings in an R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any uses permitted in R-1 One-Family Dwelling District;
   (B)   Two-family homes; and
   (C)   Home occupation as limited in this chapter. No mobile homes.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.032 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses in the R-2 District are other accessory used that are
incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the adjacent property
or the character of the zone:
   (A)   Guest houses and employees’ quarters;
   (B)   Private garages; and
   (C)   Communications towers, must be freestanding and not in excess of 100
feet in height.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.033 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted only if authorized by obtaining a
conditional use permit as provided in this chapter, or after the Planning
Commission has approved the site plan:
   (A)   All uses so limited for R-1 Districts in this chapter;
   (B)   Home for the ambulatory ages;
   (C)   Convalescent home, rest home and nursing home, limited to housing of
not more than five persons in addition to the owner or manager and his or her
family; and
   (D)   Mortuary.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.034 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations in the R-2 District are as follows.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way
lines to comply with the following front yard requirements:
      (1)   Minimum depth of front yard is 25 feet;
      (2)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be provided on both streets; and
      (3)   If 25% or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets are improved with buildings, all of which have observed an
average setback line of greater than 25 feet and no building varies more than
five feet from this average setback line, then no building shall be erected
closer to the street line than the minimum setback so established by the
existing buildings, but this regulation shall not require a front yard of
greater depth than 40 feet.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Minimum for one story dwellings located on interior lots is five
feet.
      (2)   Minimum side yard for more than one story dwellings and garage
apartments, except as hereinafter provided in this chapter is ten feet.
      (3)   Minimum for unattached buildings of accessory use is five feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lots is 15 feet.
      (5)   Minimum setback from all exterior and interior side lot lines for
churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and buildings
accessory to dwellings is 35 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. Minimum rear yard except where an alley is platted is ten
feet.
   (D)   Lot width. Minimum lot width at building line for one-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings and garage apartments is 60 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   Minimum lot area for each one-family dwelling and accessory
building is 7,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot area for each two-family dwelling and accessory
building is 8,500 square feet.
      (3)   A garage apartment located on the same lot with a one-family
dwelling shall have the same area requirements as two-family dwellings. In all
other cases, a garage apartment shall be provided with the same lot area
required by a one-family dwelling.
      (4)   Where a lot has less area than herein required and all the boundary
lines of that lot touch lands under other ownership on the initial effective
date of this chapter, that lot may be used for any of the uses except churches
permitted in the R-1 One-Family District.
      (5)   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking areas
required in this chapter.
   (F)   Coverage.
      (1)   Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30% of the
lot area.
      (2)   Accessory buildings shall not cover more than 20% of the rear yard.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.035 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height,
except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 157.050 GENERALLY.
   The characteristics of the R-3 District are a medium and high population
density residential zone area consisting of single-, duplex- and multi-family
dwellings along with limited home occupations and limited private and public
community uses where lots are large enough for family living, but small enough
to afford low development costs, economy of streets and utilities, and
proximity to schools, churches and shopping.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.051 GENERAL USES.
   The following and all essentially uses are permitted in this zone:
   (A)   Any use permitted in an R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings and apartment houses;
   (C)   Boarding and rooming houses;
   (D)   Dormitories;
   (E)   Community centers; and
   (F)   Clubs and lodges. No mobile homes.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.052 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses in the R-3 District are other accessory uses that are
incidental to the permitted use and not detrimental to the adjacent property or
character of the zone:
   (A)   Private garages; and
   (B)   Parking lots for nonresidential uses. Must be paved.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.053 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The regulations set forth for conditional uses in this chapter shall apply
in R-3 Districts:
   (A)   Institutions for children or the aged;
   (B)   Medical facilities;
   (C)   Trailer courts; and
   (D)   Communication towers must be free standing and not in excess of 100
feet in height.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.054 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The area regulations in the R-3 District are as follows.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way
lines to comply with the following front yard requirements:
      (1)   Minimum depth of front yard is 25 feet;
      (2)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be provided on both streets; and
      (3)   If 25% or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets are improved with buildings; all of which are observed an
average setback line of greater than 25 feet, and no building varies more than
five feet from this average setback line, then no building shall be erected
closer to the street line than the minimum setback so established by the
existing buildings, but this regulation shall not require a front yard of
greater depth than 40 feet.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Minimum for one story dwelling located on interior lot is five
feet.
      (2)   Minimum for more than one-story dwelling located on interior lot is
ten feet.
      (3)   Minimum for unattached buildings of accessory use is five feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lots is 15 feet.
      (5)   Minimum setback from all exterior and interior side lot lines for
churches and main and accessory building, other than dwellings and buildings
accessory to dwellings is 35 feet.
      (6)   Trailer courts shall be planned in such a manner that no trailer or
related building shall be located closer than 15 feet to any side lot line.
   (C)   Rear yard. Minimum rear yard, except where an alley is platted, is ten
feet.
   (D)   Lot width. Minimum lot width at building line for one-family dwellings
and two-family dwellings and garage apartments is 60 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   Minimum lot area for a one-family dwelling is 6,500 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot area for a two-family dwelling is 7,500 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot area for a multiple-family dwelling is 7,500 square
feet; plus for each family of more than two occupying a dwelling, 2,000 square
feet; plus for each family of two or less occupying a single bedroom dwelling,
1,250 square feet.
      (4)   A garage apartment located on the same lot with a one-family
dwelling shall have a lot area of not less than 7,500 square feet. When a
garage apartment is located on the same lot with a two-family or multiple-
family dwelling, the lot area shall provide not less than 2,000 square feet
more than is required for the two-family dwelling or multiple-family dwelling.
      (5)   Where a lot has less area than herein required and all the boundary
lines of that lot touch lands under other ownership on the initial effective
date of this chapter, that lot may be used for any of the uses, except
churches, permitted in the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District.
      (6)   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking areas
required in this chapter.
   (F)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 35%
of the lot area. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30% of the rear
yard.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Buildings shall be provided with a paved yard area
adequate to meet the off-street parking requirements as set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.055 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed three and one-half stories or 45 feet in height,
except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
R-4 TOWNHOUSE DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 157.070 GENERALLY.
   The R-4 District is designed to provide areas for single-family attached
units on individually platted lots at a medium population density in addition
to traditional single-, duplex- and multi-family dwellings.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.071 GENERAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the R-4 District:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-3 District; and
   (B)   A townhouse development. No mobile homes.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.072 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the general uses are
permitted.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.073 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted only if authorized by obtaining a
conditional use permit as provided in this chapter, or if the Planning
Commission has approved the site plan; all uses so permitted for the R-
3 District.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.074 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The area regulations in the R-4 District for single, duplex, and multi-
family dwellings shall be the same as those in the R-3 District. Area
regulations for townhouse development are as follows.
   (A)   Front yard. Minimum depth of front yard is 25 feet.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   No side yard is required for interior lots.
      (2)   No side yard is required for interior sides of end lots.
      (3)   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lots is 15 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard for side of end lots abutting other property not
contained in townhouse development is ten feet.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Minimum rear yard backing on a street is 25 feet.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard not backing on a street is 15 feet.
   (D)   Lot width.
      (1)   Minimum lot width at building line for interior lots is 25 feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width at building line for corner is 40 feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot width at building line for end lots not abutting a
street is 35 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   Minimum land area for townhouse development is 25,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot area for an individual townhouse lot is 2,500 square
feet.
      (3)   The total floor area for a townhouse development shall not exceed
40% of the land area of the townhouse development.
      (4)   The floor area for an individual lot shall not exceed 60% of the
lot area.
   (F)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 50%
of the lot area. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than 20% of the rear
yard;
   (G)   Open space. In each townhouse development there shall be commonly
owned and maintained open space in the amount of at least 350 square feet per
dwelling unit. Each common open space which is provided to meet this
requirement shall be at least 3,500 square feet in area and shall have at least
dimension of not less than 60 feet.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.075 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed three and one-half stories or 45 feet in height,
except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.076 TOWNHOUSE DEFINITION.
   TOWNHOUSE means one of a series of two or more attached dwelling units,
separated from one another by continuous, vertical party walls without openings
from basement floor to the roof deck and tight against same or through the roof
and which are intended to have ownership transferred in conjunction with a
platted lot, except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.077 FLOOR AREA.
   FLOOR AREA, for a townhouse development, means the total area, in square
feet, of floor space within the outside dimensions of a building, including
each floor level, halls, stairways, basement and covered exterior balconies,
except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.078 EXCEPTION TO SUBDIVISION CODE; LOT SIZES.
   (A)   Except for townhouse lots, every residential lot served by a public
sewage system shall not be less than 60 feet wide at the building line or less
than 7,500 square feet in area or as provided by this Zoning Code or other
requirements of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Except for townhouse lots, corner lots shall be at least 70 feet wide
at the building line to allow for side street building lines. Building lines
may be less than 25 feet when the average slope of the first 50 feet of the lot
is greater than 20%.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.090 GENERALLY.
   The characteristics of the C-1 District are a use area for small shopping
centers designed to serve surrounding residential neighborhoods. The stores in
this area provide durable goods, personal services and convenience goods. More
ample parking requirements and more stringent bulk regulations are designed to
make use area harmonize with the residential districts which surround it.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.091 GENERAL USES.
   (A)   The following and all essentially similar uses are permitted in this
zone:
      (1)   Any use permitted in R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District;
      (2)   Any conditional use set forth in R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling
District;
      (3)   Retail stores and shops supplying the regular and customary needs
of the residents of the neighborhood and primarily for their convenience, as
follows:
         (a)   Antique shop;
         (b)   Appliance store;
         (c)   Art school, gallery or museum;
         (d)   Artist materials, supply or studio;
         (e)   Automobile service station;
         (f)   Automobile parking lot;
         (g)   Baby shop;
         (h)   Bakery store;
         (i)   Bank;
         (j)   Barber and beauty shop, and tanning beds;
         (k)   Book store;
         (l)   Camera shop;
         (m)   Catering establishment;
         (n)   Clothing store;
         (o)   Confectionery shop;
         (p)   Delicatessen shop;
         (q)   Department store;
         (r)   Drug store;
         (s)   Dry goods store;
         (t)   Eating and drinking places;
         (u)   Fitness center;
         (v)   Flower shop;
         (w)   Furniture store;
         (x)   Gift shop;
         (y)   Grocery store or supermarket;
         (z)   Hobby store;
         (aa)   Hotel;
         (bb)   Laundry, self service;
         (cc)   Laundry and dry cleaning (pick up stations);
         (dd)   Liquor store;
         (ee)   Meat and seafood market;
         (ff)   Messenger or telegraph service, or cell phone stores;
         (gg)   Musical instrument sales;
         (hh)   Newsstand;
         (ii)   Offices;
         (jj)   Office supplies;
         (kk)   Optometrist sales and service;
         (ll)   Paint and decorating shop;
         (mm)   Parking lot(s);
         (nn)   Photographer’s studio;
         (oo)   Pharmacy;
         (pp)   Pressing and altering of clothes;
         (qq)   Postal services;
         (rr)   Produce store;
         (ss)   Radio, television, cell phone, internet sales and service, and
internet cafes;
         (tt)   Shoe repair shop;
         (uu)   Sporting goods sales;
         (vv)   Stationery store;
         (ww)   Tailor shop;
         (xx)   Tobacco store;
         (yy)   Toy store; and
         (zz)   Variety store.
      (4)   Nameplate and sign relating only to the use of the store and
premises or to products sold on the premises, as follows:
         (a)   Flat single faced signs;
         (b)   Directly lighted signs not over 50 square feet in are; and
         (c)   Sign panels not over 100 square feet in area for each 50 feet of
frontage.
   (B)   Any building used for any of the enumerated uses in division (A) of
this section may not have more than 40% of its floor area devoted to purposes
incidental to the primary use. No materials or goods offered for sale or stored
in connection with uses enumerated above shall be displayed or stored outside
of a building.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.092 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses in the C-1 District are other accessory uses that are
incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the adjacent property
or the character of the zone.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.093 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Any C-1 zone lot established, and any structure erected on any C-1 zone lot
after the initial effective date of this chapter, shall comply with the
following bulk and area requirements. The area requirements for dwellings shall
be the same as requirements of R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way
line to comply with the following front yard requirements:
      (1)   Minimum depth of front yard where there is no parking permitted is
25 feet; and
      (2)   Minimum depth of front yard where parking is provided between
structure and property lines adjacent to streets is 40 feet.
   (B)   Rear yard. Minimum rear yard where a commercial building is to be
serviced from rear is 30 feet.
   (C)   Intensity of use. Minimum lot area for new structures erected after
the initial effective date of this chapter is 7,000 square feet.
   (D)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 65%
of the lot area.
   (E)   Off-street parking. Buildings shall be provided with a paved yard area
adequate to meet the off-street parking requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.094 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height
except as hereinafter provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.095 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses include communications towers.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.110 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The following and all essentially similar uses are permitted in this
zone:
      (1)   Any use permitted in C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District;
      (2)   Amusement enterprises;
      (3)   New automobile sales and services, new machinery sales and
services, and public garages; provided no gasoline in stored above ground;
      (4)   Used automobile and machinery sales, used automobile, and machinery
repairing if conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building, but not
including, automobile or machinery wrecking establishments or junkyards;
      (5)   Advertising signs or structures;
      (6)   Auto court or tourist court;
      (7)   Ambulance service office or garage;
      (8)   Boat sales;
      (9)   Bowling alley;
      (10)   Bus terminal;
      (11)   Business machine store;
      (12)   Carpenter and cabinet shop;
      (13)   Cleaning and dyeing works;
      (14)   Commercial school or hall;
      (15)   Dance hall;
      (16)   Drive-in theater or restaurant;
      (17)   Electric transmission station;
      (18)   Feed and fuel store;
      (19)   Fire and police stations;
      (20)   Frozen food locker;
      (21)   Furniture repair and upholstery;
      (22)   Funeral parlor or mortuary;
      (23)   Gasoline and filling stations;
      (24)   Golf courses, miniature or practice range;
      (25)   Governmental office;
      (26)   Heating, ventilating or plumbing supplies, sales and service;
      (27)   Interior decorating store;
      (28)   Ice storage locker plant or storage house for food;
      (29)   Jewelry store;
      (30)   Key shop;
      (31)   Kennel/groomers;
      (32)   Laboratories, testing and experimental;
      (33)   Leather goods shop;
      (34)   Library and reading rooms;
      (35)   Mail order outlet;
      (36)   Music and record shop;
      (37)   Newspaper printing plant;
      (38)   Nightclubs;
      (39)   Nursery or garden supply store;
      (40)   Parking garage;
      (41)   Pawnshop;
      (42)   Pet shop/grooming;
      (43)   Printing and engraving plants;
      (44)   Radio and television broadcasting stations;
      (45)   Recreation center;
      (46)   Research laboratory;
      (47)   Roller skating rink;
      (48)   Schools and colleges;
      (49)   Sign painting shop;
      (50)   Hospital for small animals;
      (51)   Stock and bond broker;
      (52)   Storage warehouse;
      (53)   Telephone and telegraph office and exchange;
      (54)   Theater;
      (55)   Toy store;
      (56)   Utility offices and exchanges;
      (57)   Wholesale distributing center; and
      (58)   Any other store or shop for retail or wholesale trade or for
rendering personal, professional or business service which does not produce
more noise, odor, dust, vibration, blast or traffic than those enumerated
above.
   (B)   The enumerated uses in division (A) of this section shall comply with
the following provisions.
      (1)   All open storage and display of merchandise, material and equipment
shall be so screened by ornamental fencing or evergreen planting that it cannot
be seen by a person standing on ground level in an R residential or a C-
1 Commercial District when located to the side or rear of the lot on which such
open storage or display occurs; provided, however, that screening shall not be
required in excess of seven feet in height. All planting shall be kept neatly
trimmed and maintained good condition at all times. Merchandise and materials
which are not completely assembled or which are not immediately and actively
being offered for sale shall, in addition to complying with the above screening
requirements, be so screened by ornamental fences or evergreen planting or by
permanent buildings so that it cannot be seen from public street.
      (2)   All yards unoccupied with buildings or merchandise or used as
traffic ways shall be landscaped with grass and shrubs and maintained in good
condition the year round.
      (3)   All of the lots used for parking vehicles, for the storage and
display of merchandise and all driveways used for vehicle ingress and egress
shall be paved with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in such a manner
that no dust will be produced by continued use.
      (4)   All servicing of vehicles and assembly of equipment carried on as
an incidental part of the sales operation shall be conducted within a
completely enclosed building.
      (5)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall not exceed 25 feet in
width, exclusive of curb returns.
      (6)   Outdoor lighting, when provided, shall have an arrangement of
reflectors and an intensity of lighting which will not interfere with adjacent
land uses or the use of adjacent streets, and shall not be of a flashing or
intermittent type.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.111 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses in the C-2 District are other accessory uses that are
incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the adjacent property
or the character of the zone.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.112 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Any C-2 zone lot established and any structure erected on any C-2 zone lot
after the initial effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
following bulk and area requirements.
   (A)   Dwellings. The area regulations for dwellings shall be the same as the
requirements of the R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District.
   (B)   Front and side yard. There are no specific front or side yard
requirements for uses other than dwellings.
   (C)   Rear yard. When a commercial building is to be serviced from the rear,
there shall be provided an alleyway, service court, rear yard or combination
thereof adequate to provide off-street loading space. In all other cases, no
rear yard is require.
   (D)   Off-street parking. Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off-street parking requirements as set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.113 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height regulations for dwellings and accessory buildings for dwellings
shall be the same as those of the R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District. For
other uses, no height restrictions are required.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.114 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses include communications towers.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
C-3 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 1577.125 GENERALLY.
   The characteristics of the C-3 District are a zone for business that serves
a city or regional trade, but which cannot command a location in the central
business zone because of special clientele, need for parking or similar
reasons.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.126 GENERAL USES.
   (A)   The following and all essentially similar uses are permitted in this
zone:
      (1)   All uses allowed in C-2 General Commercial District;
      (2)   Farm implement and machinery sales, new and used;
      (3)   House trailer sales;
      (4)   Metal and wood fencing, ornamental grillwork and decorative wrought
iron work and playground equipment sales;
      (5)   Monument sales;
      (6)   Lumberyard;
      (7)   New and used car and truck sales;
      (8)   Prefabricated house sales;
      (9)   Trailers for hauling, rental and sales; and
      (10)   Oil field or oil well supplies.
   (B)   The enumerated uses in division (A) of this section shall comply with
the following provisions.
      (1)   All yards unoccupied with buildings or merchandise or used as
traffic ways landscaped with grass and shrubs and maintained in good condition
the year round.
      (2)   All servicing of vehicles and assembly of equipment carried on as
an incidental part of the sales operation shall be conducted with a completely
enclosed building.
      (3)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall not exceed 25 feet in
width, exclusive of curb returns.
      (4)   Outdoor lighting, when provided, shall have an arrangement of
reflectors and an intensity of lighting which will not interfere with adjacent
land uses or the use of adjacent streets, and shall not be of a flashing or
intermittent type.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.127 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses in the C-3 District are other accessory uses that are
incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the adjacent property
or the character of the zone.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.128 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Dwellings. The area regulations for dwellings shall be the same as the
requirements of the R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District.
   (B)   Front of side yards. There are no specific front or side yard
requirements for uses other than dwellings.
   (C)   Rear yard. Where a commercial building is to be serviced from the
rear, there shall be provided an alleyway, service court, rear yard or
combination thereof adequate to provide off-street loading. In all other cases,
no rear yard is required.
   (D)   Off-street parking. Buildings shall be provided with a paved yard area
adequate to meet the off-street parking requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.129 SIGNS.
   Permitted signs are flat, single face signs; sign and sign panels not over
480 square feet in area. Flashing signs are prohibited.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.130 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses include radio, television and microwave communication towers.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
H-C HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.145 GENERALLY.
   The characteristics of the H-C District are a use area for retail
establishments which cater to the traveling public. Lot sizes, highway ingress
and egress, setback requirements, and the design of the individual sites are
intended to provide for motorists needs and yet maintain adequate, safe and
attractive facilities with minimal marginal traffic interference.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.146 GENERAL USES.
   (A)   The following and all essentially similar uses are permitted in this
zone:
      (1)   Temporary lodging;
      (2)   Eating establishments;
      (3)   Gasoline stations, but no above ground storage of fuels;
      (4)   Liquor stores and other retail shops which cater primarily to
resident traveling public; and
      (5)   Automotive repair if connected as an accessory to another use
(gasoline station) and wholly within an enclosed building;
   (B)   All driveways and parking lots shall be ample for the land use; they
will be designed to keep marginal highway traffic interference to a minimum;
and they will have a completely sealed surface. All products offered for sale
will be inside a completely closed building or behind a permanent ornamental
wall, fencing or planting such that it cannot be seen by a person standing on
ground level; provided, however, that no screening shall be required to be in
excess of seven feet in height.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.147 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses in the H-C District are other uses that are incidental to the
permitted use and not detrimental to the adjacent property or the character of
the zone.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.148 SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES.
   A major truck stop which has a lot size of not less than five acres and
completely sealed driveways and parking lots and in the collective opinion of
the Planning Commission is suitable located and sited with regard to adjacent
uses, highway traffic interference and is beneficial to the city may be, with
written permission from the Planning Commission, located in an H-C District.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.149 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations for dwellings shall be the same as for the R-1 residential
requirements.
   (A)   Front yard minimum setback is 40 feet. The side yard setback if
abutting a street is the same as for the front yard.
   (B)   The side yard setback will be at least 15 feet. The rear yard setback
with no alley easement will be ten feet. If an alley is dedicated, a zero lot
line in the rear is allowed.
   (C)   Buildings shall be provided with a yard area adequate to meet the off-
street parking requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The minimum distance between buildings on the same lot is 15 feet.
   (E)   A minimum 100-foot frontage is required on all lots.
   (F)   Minimum lot size is 10,000 square feet.
   (G)   Longer curb cuts, up to 50 feet, are allowed for gasoline stations
after approval by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.150 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories in height or 25 feet
except as provided in this chapter, unless it is set back from all lot lines an
additional one foot for each two feet that the building exceeds 25 feet.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.151 SIGNS.
   Permitted signs are flat single face wall signs, ground signs and roof
signs; signs and sign panels shall not exceed 400 square feet in area. Flashing
signs are prohibited.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.152 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Nonconforming uses include any use not mentioned in this subchapter under
general, accessory or special exception uses. The Planning Commission shall
have the authority to permit nonconforming uses in highway commercial districts
under special written agreements between the city and the owner or occupier of
the use. The agreements will detail existing and future use, site design,
parking, building and setback requirements and highway ingress and egress.
Nonconforming uses will only be permitted if it is determined that the use is
beneficial to the community.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
   I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.165 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The characteristics of the I-1 District are a use area of wholesaling
storage, packaging, display, shipping, distribution and those retail uses that
are accessory to the operations and for light manufacturing, assembling and
fabrication.
   (B)   The side yard setback will be at least 15 feet. The rear yard setback
with no alley easement will be ten feet. If an alley is dedicated, a zero lot
line in the rear is allowed.
   (C)   Buildings shall be provided with a yard area adequate to meet the off-
street parking requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The minimum distance between buildings on the same lot is 15 feet.
   (E)   A minimum 100-foot frontage is required on all lots.
   (F)   Minimum lot size is 10,000 square feet.
   (G)   Longer curb cuts, up to 50 feet are allowed for gasoline stations
after approval by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.166 GENERAL USES.
   The following and all essentially similar uses are permitted in this zone:
   (A)   Any use, except dwellings, permitted in the C-3 Commercial District.
No dwelling use except sleeping facilities required by caretakers or night
watchpersons employed on the premises shall be permitted in an I-1 Industrial
District;
   (B)   Any of the following uses:
         (a)   Bakery;
         (b)   Book bindery;
         (c)   Bottling plant;
         (d)   Building material sales yard;
         (e)   Churches and schools, after the Planning Commission has approved
the site plan;
         (f)   Commercial and industrial display and sale;
         (g)   Contractor’s equipment storage yard or equipment or plant, or
rental of equipment commonly used by contractors;
         (h)   Electrical equipment assembly;
         (i)   Fabrication, compounding and packaging of previously prepared
materials;
         (j)   Farm machinery;
         (k)   Freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
         (l)   Ice plants;
         (m)   Laundry and cleaning plant;
         (n)   Lumber yard;
         (o)   Oilfield equipment storage yard;
         (p)   Restaurant;
         (q)   Service station;
         (r)   Truck, bus and train terminals;
         (s)   Utility, equipment yards and substations;
         (t)   Warehouses;
         (u)   Wholesale stores; and
         (v)   Radio, television and microwave communication towers.
   (C)   No article or material permitted in this District shall be kept,
stored or displayed outside the confines of a building unless it be so screened
by fences, walls or planting that it cannot be seen from adjoining public
streets or adjacent lots when viewed by a person standing on ground level.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.167 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses in the I-1 District are uses that are clearly incidental to
the permitted uses listed and not including residential uses except by
employees employed on the premises.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.168 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Any I-1 zone lot established and any structure erected on any I-1 zone lot
after the initial effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
following bulk and area requirements.
   (A)   Front yard. Minimum is 30 feet.
   (B)   Side yard. Minimum is ten feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. Minimum is ten feet.
   (D)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   Minimum distance between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
15 feet.
      (2)   Minimum size of new zone is five acres.
   (E)   Coverage. Maximum lot coverage is 75%.
   (F)   Off-street parking. Buildings shall be provided with a paved yard area
adequate to meet the off-street parking requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.169 SIGNS.
   Permitted signs are outdoor advertising structures not over 300 feet in area
for each 50 feet of frontage.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.170 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed three and one-half stories or 45 feet in height
except as hereinafter provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
   I-2 RESTRICTED LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.185 GENERALLY.
   The characteristics of the I-2 District are a restricted manufacturing zone
for medium sized clean and quiet industries that may be close to residential
development. The regulations are intended to provide structures and operations
that completely confine noise, odor, dust and glare of each operation within an
enclosed building. The uses in this zone do not create excessive demands for
facilities for sewage, water, gas electricity and similar services.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.186 GENERAL USES.
   The following and all essentially similar uses are permitted in this zone:
   (A)   Any use, except a residential use, permitted in a C-2 General
Commercial except nightclubs, taverns, dance halls and liquor stores, and
including facilities for caretakers and night watchpersons employed on the
premises;
   (B)   Fabrication, compounding, processing and packaging with previously
prepared materials such as foods, drugs, cosmetics, cellophane, canvas, cloth,
felt, fur, glass, leather, paints, paper, plastics, wood and metal;
   (C)   Any of the following uses:
      (a)   Bakery;
      (b)   Bottling works;
      (c)   Book bindery;
      (d)   Candy manufacturing;
      (e)   Engraving plant;
      (f)   Electrical equipment assembly;
      (g)   Electronic equipment assembly and manufacture;
      (h)   Food products processing and packing;
      (i)   Furniture manufacturing;
      (j)   Instrument and meter manufacturing;
      (k)   Jewelry and watch manufacturing;
      (l)   Laboratory, experimental;
      (m)   Laundry and cleaning establishment;
      (n)   Leather goods fabrication;
      (o)   Optical goods manufacturing;
      (p)   Paper products manufacturing;
      (q)   Restaurant;
      (r)   Service station;
      (s)   Sporting goods manufacturing; and
      (t)   Radio, television, microwave communication towers.
   (D)   All of the uses permitted under this section shall have their primary
operations conducted entirely within enclosed buildings and shall not emit any
dust or smoke or noxious odor or fumes outside of the building housing the
operations or produce a noise level at the property line that is greater than
the average noise level occurring on the adjacent street. Any article or
material stored temporarily outside of an enclosed building as an incidental
part of the primary operation shall be so screened by ornamental walls and
fences or evergreen planting that it cannot be seen from adjoining public
streets or adjacent lots when viewed by a person standing on the ground level.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.187 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses in the I-2 District are uses that are clearly incidental to
the permitted uses listed, not including residential occupancy except by
employees employed on the premises.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.188 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditional uses in the I-2 District are bulk storage of petroleum and gas.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.189 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Any I-2 zone lot established and any structure erected on any I-2 zone lot
after the initial effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
following bulk and area requirements.
   (A)   Front yard. Minimum is 40 feet.
   (B)   Side yard. Minimum is 15 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. Minimum is ten feet.
   (D)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   Minimum distance between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
15 feet.
      (2)   Minimum size of new zones is ten acres.
   (E)   Coverage. Maximum lot coverage is 50%.
   (F)   Off-street parking. Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off-street parking requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (G)   Landscaping. All yard areas required under this section and other
yards and open spaces existing around buildings shall be landscaped and
maintained in a net condition.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.190 SIGNS.
   Permitted signs are signs and sign panels not over 300 square feet in area
for each 100 feet of street frontage. Flashing signs are prohibited.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.191 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building or structure shall exceed three and one-half stories or 45 feet
in height, except as hereinafter provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
I-3 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.205 GENERALLY.
   The characteristics of the I-3 District are a zone for industries
objectionable to business and residential uses by reason of operational
characteristics of the industry and insulated from these other uses by strips
of less objectionable industry or natural barriers. This zone is intended to
provide a place for manufacturing products from raw materials.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.206 GENERAL USES.
   The following and all essentially similar uses are permitted in this zone:
   (A)   No dwelling uses except sleeping facilities required by night
watchpersons and caretakers employed upon the premises; all uses permitted in
I-1 Light Industrial District;
   (B)   Any of the following uses:
      (1)   Slaughter houses, animal and poultry slaughter and processing;
      (2)   Farm machinery and equipment;
      (3)   Foundries;
      (4)   Garbage disposal;
      (5)   Incinerators;
      (6)   Manufacturing, processing and/or fabrication of all commodities;
      (7)   Quarry;
      (8)   Railroad facilities;
      (9)   Repair, rental and servicing of commodities;
      (10)   Reservoir;
      (11)   Retailing and storage;
      (12)   Sewage disposal;
      (13)   Wholesaling and storage; and
      (14)   Radio, television, microwave communication towers.
   (C)   Property and buildings in an I-3 Heavy Industrial District, when used
for the following purposes, shall have the uses thereon conducted in such a
manner that all operation, display or storage of material or equipment is so
screened by ornamental fences, walls and/or permanent evergreen planting that
it cannot be seen from a public street:
      (1)   Automobile salvage or junkyard;
      (2)   Building materials salvage yard;
      (3)   Junk or salvage yard of any kind; and
      (4)   Scrap metal storage yard.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.207 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses are uses that are clearly incidental to permitted uses, but
not including residential occupancy except by employees employed on the
premises.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.208 CONDITIONAL USES.
   All of the following uses are prohibited until they have been studied by the
Planning Commission and have received the express approval of the City Council.
The Council may require approval of the city or County Health Department, the
State Fire Marshal and other state and county regulating agencies and may
attach to the approval specific restrictions designed to protect the public
welfare and safety:
   (A)   Acid manufacture;
   (B)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture;
   (C)   Explosives, manufacture or wholesale storage;
   (D)   Gas manufacture;
   (E)   Petroleum or its products, refining of; and
   (F)   Wholesale or bulk storage of gasoline, propane or butane, or other
petroleum products.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.209 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Any I-3 zone lot established and any structure erected on any I-3 zone lot
after the initial effective date of this chapter shall following bulk and area
requirements.
   (A)   Front and side yard. Minimum is 50 feet.
   (B)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   Minimum distance between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
15 feet.
      (2)   Minimum size of new zones is 20 areas.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.210 SIGNS.
   Permitted signs are signs and sign panels not over 300 square feet in area
for each 100 feet of frontage.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.211 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Where a lot adjoins a dwelling district, the building shall not exceed 45
feet, unless it is set back one foot from all front and side yard lines for
each foot of additional height above 45 feet.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 157.225 GENERALLY.
   The characteristics of the A-1 district are a zone to protect undeveloped
areas from intensive uses until a use pattern is approved and the area is
rezoned.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.226 GENERAL USES.
   The following and all essentially similar uses are permitted in this zone:
   (A)   Fire and police stations;
   (B)   Golf courses;
   (C)   Livestock on lots of one area or larger if no structure for retail
sale of such livestock is maintained on the premises; provided such use is not
prohibited by existing ordinances. Nor horses or cattle and no other animals
except household pets shall be bred, raised or maintained within 500 feet of
any R residential zone;
   (D)   Nursery and greenhouse;
   (E)   Public and parochial schools, not including industrial trade school;
   (F)   Truck garden; and
   (G)   Utility substation.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.227 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses in the A-1 District are other accessory uses that are
incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the adjacent property
or the character of the area:
   (A)   Agricultural buildings; and
   (B)   Guest houses and employees’ quarters.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.228 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted after the Planning Commission has
approved the site plan:
   (A)   Aircraft landing fields;
   (B)   Boarding school;
   (C)   Broadcasting towers for radio and television;
   (D)   Churches;
   (E)   Country clubs;
   (F)   Nursing home;
   (G)   Orphanage;
   (H)   Public building;
   (I)   Single-family homes as regulated in R-1 zone; and
   (J)   Signs and outdoor advertising.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.229 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Any A-1 zone lot established and any structure erected on any A-1 zone lot
after the initial effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
following regulations.
   (A)   Front yard. Minimum depth is 30 feet.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Minimum side yard is ten feet.
      (2)   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lot is 20 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. Minimum rear yard except where alley is platted is ten
feet.
   (D)   Lot width. Minimum lot width at building line is 125 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   Minimum lot area is one acre.
      (2)   Minimum space between unconnected buildings on the same lot is 15
feet.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.230 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories in height except as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
T-1 TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT
§ 157.245 GENERALLY.
   The characteristics of the T-1 District are a buffer zone that allows the
gradual conversion of residence of the fringe of a commercial area into uses
that are incidental to the business but not harmful to the residential
character of the neighborhoods.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.246 GENERAL USES.
   The following and all essentially similar uses are permitted in this zone:
   (A)   Administrative, executive, professional and research offices;
   (B)   All uses allowed in R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling;
   (C)   Apothecaries and drug stores,
   (D)   Art gallery;
   (E)   Government offices;
   (F)   Hospital and clinic;
   (G)   Medical and biological laboratories;
   (H)   Mortuary and funeral home;
   (I)   Parking lot; and
   (J)   Professional schools and studies.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.247 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses in the T-1 District are other accessory uses that are
incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the adjacent property
or the character of the zone.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.248 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Any T-1 zone lot established and any structure erected on any T-1 zone lot
after the initial effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
following requirements.
   (A)   Front yard. Minimum is 20 feet.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Minimum side yard is five feet.
      (2)   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lots is 15 feet.
   (C)   Lot width. Minimum is 50 feet.
   (D)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   Minimum lot area is 6,500 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum space between unconnected buildings on the same lot is ten
feet.
      (3)   Minimum unobstructed open space per dwelling unit is 1,500 square
feet.
   (E)   Off-street parking. Building shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet off-street parking requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 157.249 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings shall exceed three and one-half stories or 45 feet in height
except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 624, passed 12-18-2007)
CHAPTER 158: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
158.01   Findings
   
158.02   Hydrology
   
158.03   Design criteria; major and minor systems
   
158.04   Design of artificial channels
   
158.05   Design of inlets
   
158.06   Design of ponds
   
158.07   Improvements
   
158.08   Required supporting material for construction plans
§ 158.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Stimulate innovation. The regulations of this chapter are designed to
stimulate innovation in the stormwater management field. With a higher degree
of accuracy in modeling the stormwater, an improved project will be available
at lower cost.
   (B)   Method of estimating runoff. It is intended that the method of
estimating runoff be chosen by size of the drainage area, data available and
the degree of sophistication warranted for the design. The methods discussed
shall be used as minimum design procedures. There exist numerous estimation
methods, and they are constantly being improved, thus the estimation of
rainfall shall be conducted using the best practicable technology.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-1) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 158.02 HYDROLOGY.
   (A)   Risk of damage to property. Stormwater facilities shall be designed to
accommodate the 100- year storm six hour duration without increasing risk of
damages to other property or to the development itself.
   (B)   Supporting material. Supporting material such as hydrographs, charts,
sketches of areas and subareas, computer output and the like, shall be
submitted in a neat and presentable form along with the plans.
   (C)   Restrictions on method of estimating runoff.
      (1)   The rational method and its modifications shall only be utilized
when the drainage area being studied is less than 20 acres. Its use for the
design of parking lots, roof top drainage and other small areas is acceptable
and should be utilized.
      (2)   Unit hydrograph methods may be used on drainage areas up to 1,000
acres.
      (3)   All soils conservation service models may be used up to 20 square
miles.
      (4)   Izzard’s method may be used up to 1,000 acres.
      (5)   Variations of these methods and other methods are acceptable within
the limitations stated by their authors.
   (D)   Land use pattern. Factors used in all models shall be based upon the
projected land use pattern reflected in the comprehensive plan of the city.
   (E)   Predevelopment and postdevelopment. The drainage basin or subbasin
predevelopment and postdevelopment hydrograph shall be computed and reported.
The design of the major and minor systems ponds will be based upon these
calculations.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-2) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 158.03 DESIGN CRITERIA; MAJOR AND MINOR SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Minor system.
      (1)   (a)   A minor system is a convenience system and should be designed
as dictated by the local economics.
         (b)   A minor system shall consist of closed conduit, street gutters,
flow regulators, ponds and the like.
         (c)   The minimum design storm frequency shall be a two-year storm
with a one hour duration.
         (d)   The exceptions to this are major business districts where the
design of the minor system is based on the ten-year frequency storm with a one
hour duration.
         (e)   Once the stormwater is transported beyond the limits of the
subdivision, the water shall then be discharged into the receiving stream which
may be an open or closed channel.
      (2)   Velocities shall be determined using Manning’s equation. Velocities
inside conduit shall be safe so as not to expedite the deterioration on the
pipe. Outlet velocities shall not exceed the permissible velocity for the
receiving channel unless a transition structure is designed to reduce the
velocity to an acceptable range.
      (3)   The hydraulic grade elevations shall be determined and noted at all
catch basins for the minor system at the design flow.
      (4)   The minor system shall remove all water from the surface without
overflow or surface backup or localized flooding at the design flow.
   (B)   Major system.
      (1)   The major system will be designed with the objective to protect all
property in and around the development from a 100-year rainfall event for a six
hour duration.
      (2)   Streets, open channels, detention structures, flow regulators and
the like shall be utilized to provide the best engineered and the most
economical design for the proposed subdivision.
      (3)   The design and layout of the major system shall be based on the
predevelopment hydrograph. Thus, the hydrograph flow from a proposed
subdivision shall not exceed the predevelopment hydrograph for any given storm
frequency. In the supporting material, the applicant must show this for two
storm frequencies, the minor system’s design storm and a 100-year design. A
public easement or right-of-way shall be provided to accommodate the size of
the channel needed to control the 100-year storm. Detention ponds used in
conjunction with recreational facilities are acceptable and will be encouraged.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-3) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 158.04 DESIGN OF ARTIFICIAL CHANNELS.
   (A)   Trapezoidal, concrete and nonerodible.
      (1)   Collect all necessary information, estimate Manning’s “n”, the
design flow and select the slope.
       (2)   Compute the section factor Z using:
 
Z =AR 2/3 =  nQ
1.49 /S
 
      (3)   Substitute into the above equation the expressions for A and R
according to the shape of the channel given in the following Figure:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2233.jpg]
      (4)   From this equation solve the depth by iterating until the equation
balances.
      (5)   Check for the minimum permissible velocity at which the water will
carry silt.
      (6)   Add a proper freeboard. Freeboard may vary from 15% to 30% of the
depth and be a minimum of six inches.
   (B)   Grassed channels; nonerodible.
      (1)   Design for stability.
         (a)   1.   Select type of grass lining. This depends on the soil,
climate and the following chart of permissible velocities:
Figure II. Permissible Velocities For Channels Lined With Grass*
Cover Permissible Velocity, fps
      Slope Range % Erosion Resistant Soils Easily Eroded Soils
Figure II. Permissible Velocities For Channels Lined With Grass*
                       Permissible Velocity, fps
Cover                  Slope Range % Erosion Resistant Easily Eroded Soils
                                     Soils
Bermuda grass          0—5         8                 6
                      5—10        7                 5
Buffalo grass,
Kentucky bluegrass,    0—5         7                 5
smooth brome, blue
grama
                      5—10        6                 4
Grass mixture          0—5         5                 4
                      5—10        4                 3
                         Do not use on slopes steeper that 10%
Lespedeza sericea,
weeping love grass,
ischaemum (yellow      0—5         3.5               2.5
bluestem), alfalfa,
crabgrass
                      Do not use on slopes steeper than 5% except for side
                       slopes in a combination channel
Annuals - used in mild
slopes or as temporary
protection until       0—5         3.5               2.5
permanent covers are
established, common
lespedeza, Sudan grass
                         Use on slopes steeper than 5% is not recommended
Remarks: The values apply to average, uniform stands of each type of cover.
Use velocities exceeding 5 fps only where good covers and proper maintenance
can be obtained.
*U.S. Soil Conservation Service
 
            2.   Decide on the length of grass and find the degree of
retardance from the following table:
Figure III. Guide In Selection Of Vegetal Retardance*
Stand Average Length Of Grass (In.) Degree Of Retardance
Figure III. Guide In Selection Of Vegetal Retardance*
Stand Average Length Of Grass (In.) Degree Of Retardance
Good  30                                  A: Very high
     11—24                             B: High
     6—10                              C: Moderate
     2—6                               D: Low
Fair  30                                  B: High
     11—24                             C: Moderate
     6—10                              D: Low
     2—6                               D: Low
*U.S. Soil Conservation Service
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2235.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2237.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2239.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2241.jpg]
         (b)   The design flow is calculated using an acceptable method from
the hydrology section. Assume a value n and from the vegetal retardance chart,
Figure III, determine the corresponding value for VR.
         (c)   Select a permissible velocity from Figure II and compute the
hydraulic radius.
         (d)   1.   Use the Manning’s formula and compute the value of VR
using:
 
VR = 1.49 R5/3 S1/2
       n
 
            2.   Check this value against the value for VR obtained in step 2.
Continue the trials until the computer VR value is equal to the value from
Figure III.
         (e)   Next compute the water area using:
 
A = Q/V
 
         (f)   1.   Since the correct value for A and R have been found, the
section dimensions (b=base; y=depth), may now be determined by solving for:
 
AR = by . by  (for a rectangular section)
    b + 2y
 
            2.   Make the appropriate substitutions in the above equation for
various design shapes as per Figure I.
      (2)   Design for maximum capacity. This design phase is to determine the
additional depth necessary to sustain the maximum capacity of a fully developed
grass lining.
         (a)   Assume a depth y, and compute the water area A and the hydraulic
radius R.
         (b)   Compute the velocity V by V = Q/A and compute the value of VR.
         (c)   From the n - VR curve of a higher degree of retardance,
determine the value for n.
         (d)   Compute the velocity by the Manning’s formula and check this
value against the value of V obtained in step 2.
         (e)   Make trial computations until the computed V in step 4 is equal
to the computed V in step 2.
         (f)   Add the proper freeboard to the computed depth. Use 15% to 30%
of the depth for determining the freeboard with a minimum of six inches.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-4) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 158.05 DESIGN OF INLETS.
   (A)   Curb inlet length. Curb inlet length shall be determined by the inlet
capacity graphs. The method is fully described in the report titled “Inlet
Design Procedures”. This report is available, by request, in the City
Engineer’s office.
   (B)   Storm sewer grates. The design of storm sewer grates is described in
“Inlet Design Procedures” and shall be used as a model for design.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-5) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 158.06 DESIGN OF PONDS.
   (A)   Design. The design of all detention ponds shall be based upon the
hydrographs derived for each subcatchment. To determine the storage required,
the outflow curve shall be subtracted from the inflow curve. Other design
methods are acceptable and may give a greater degree of accuracy depending upon
the size of the subcatchment. The outflow hydrograph shall not release a
greater volume or have a higher peak flow than the predevelopment hydrograph.
   (B)   Vegetation. All ponds shall be furnished with proper vegetation to
prevent erosion of the soil.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-6) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 158.07 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements. All storm drainage facilities shall be built within the
proper easements. Easements shall also be provided to permit access for
maintenance of all stormwater facilities.
   (B)   Bridges and culverts. All flow of water across continuous streets or
alleys shall be through culverts or bridges and shall be designed using the
requirements described in the previous sections.
   (C)   Closed storm sewers. The closed storm sewer will be utilized with the
minor system and shall be designed to the storm frequency of that which is
economically sound for the minor system.
   (D)   Open channels. Open channels shall only be used in the major system
and designed for the 100-year storm event with a six hour duration. All
buildings in the proposed subdivision shall be built above the 100-year flood
level a distance of one foot. Sod slopes of improved channels shall have a
maximum slope of 2.5 horizontal to 1 vertical. All open channels, including
streets, shall be designed using the method described in previous sections.
   (E)   Artificial channels. Artificial channels include pipe flowing partly
full, concrete channels, excavated or dredged and grass lined channels.
Determine critical depth, critical slopes for initial selection of size and
shape. Use Manning’s equation to determine the normal depth for the design flow
and check to see if the critical depth is greater, equal to or less than the
normal depth. Critical depth must always be less than normal depth. If the
critical depth is greater than normal depth, the slope is too steep and must be
changed. Critical depth shall not be approached anywhere in the channel.
   (F)   Obstructions. Obstructions raise the water depth. Obstructions include
bridges, culverts, change in channel shape, Manning’s n coefficient, channel
alignment and the like. Where these obstructions exist and are expected to have
an impact on the drainage in the subdivision, a backwater computation is
required in the application.
   (G)   Fencing. No subdivision fences shall be constructed in, along or
across surface drainageways.
   (H)   Inlets. Inlets shall be provided frequently enough so that the minor
system can flow to its design capacity and so water does not exceed one inch
above the crown of the street. The recommended distance between inlets should
be 600 feet.
   (I)   Street gutter. STREET GUTTER shall be defined as the distance from the
flowline to the crown of the street.
   (J)   New commercial developments. All new commercial developments shall
provide drainage facilities that conform to this chapter.
   (K)   Lot arrangement. The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be
no foreseeable drainage problems. As a general rule, each lot should provide
positive drainage to a street or approved drainage channel without crossing
more than two consecutive lots.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-7) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 158.08 REQUIRED SUPPORTING MATERIAL FOR CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Materials. The following materials are required:
      (1)   Surface runoff flow patterns for all lots;
      (2)   All gutter flow patterns and depths at the design flow;
      (3)   Inlet capacities for all grates and curb inlets; summation in
tabular form, for the minor system, the flow quantities intercepted by inlets
and the flow quantities bypassed to the next inlet;
      (4)   Hydrographs for predevelopment and postdevelopment states. Both
hydrographs are necessary for each subcatchment, at all collection points on
the major system and at the outlet on major system;
      (5)   Hydraulic grade on the minor system;
      (6)   Critical depth and normal depth shall be reported for all channels
and conduits;
      (7)   All areas where erosion may be a problem shall be noted on the
plans;
      (8)   Inflow and outflow - hydrographs shall be furnished for all
detention points in the subdivision; and
      (9)   A division location map showing the topography and ridge lines is
required for predevelopment and postdevelopment. Hydrograph calculations shall
correspond to this map.
   (B)   Additional information. Additional Information: Figures IV through VII
outlining specifications for canals and dredge channels shall be on file and
available for inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
   Figure VIII
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2243.jpg]
   General Specifications:
      (1)   Construction of concrete lining shall conform to city
specifications.
      (2)   Sloping walls shall have slope ratio of 1 horizontal to 1 vertical,
or flatter.
      (3)   Sodded slope ratio shall be 2.5 horizontal to 1 vertical or
flatter.
      (4)   Concrete liners shall be structurally designed for calculated
hydraulic load to be minimum four inches - maximum six inches of 3,500 lb.
concrete.
      (5)   This figure shall only be constructed in the major system.
   Figure IX
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2245.jpg]
   General Specifications:
      (1)   Slopes back of curb shall have a ratio of 2.5 horizontal to 1
vertical, or flatter.
      (2)   Slopes shall be sodded uniformly to permit mowing.
      (3)   Concrete construction shall conform to city specifications.
      (4)   This figure shall be constructed only in the major system.
      (5)   Concrete liners shall be structurally designed for calculated
hydraulic load to be minimum four inches - maximum six inches of 3,500 lb.
concrete.
Figure X
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2247.jpg]
   General Specifications:
      (1)   Construction of concrete lining shall conform to city
specifications.
      (2)   Sloping walls shall have slope ratio of 1 horizontal to 1 vertical,
or flatter.
      (3)   Sodded slope ratio shall be 2.5 horizontal to 1 vertical, or
flatter.
      (4)   Concrete liners shall be structurally designed for calculated
hydraulic load to be minimum four inches - maximum six inches of 3,500 lb.
concrete.
      (5)   This figure shall only be constructed in the major system.
Figure XI
Runoff Coefficients for Various Land Uses
Typical Values**
Rational Method
Slope Land Use Sandy Soils Clay Soils
               Min. Max.   Min. Max.
Figure XI
Runoff Coefficients for Various Land Uses
Typical Values**
Rational Method
Slope          Land Use                        Sandy Soils Clay Soils
                                               Min. Max.   Min. Max.
Flat (0—2%)  Woodlands                       0.10 0.15   0.15 0.20
              *Pasture, grass and farmland    0.15 0.20   0.20 0.25
              Rooftops and pavement           0.95        0.95
              Single-family residential:
                 1/2 acre lots and larger  0.30 0.35   0.35 0.45
                 Smaller lots              0.35 0.45   0.40 0.50
              Multi-family residential:
                 Duplexes                  0.35 0.45   0.40 0.50
                 Apts., townhouses and cond0.45 0.60   0.50 0.70
              Commercial and industrial       0.50 0.95   0.50 0.95
Rolling (2—7%Woodlands                       0.15 0.20   0.20 0.25
              *Pasture, grass and farmland    0.20 0.25   0.25 0.30
              Rooftops and pavement           0.95        0.95
              Single-family residential:
                 1/2 acre lots and larger  0.35 0.50   0.40 0.55
                 Smaller lots              0.40 0.55   0.45 0.60
              Multi-family residential:
                 Duplexes                  0.40 0.55   0.45 0.60
                 Apts., townhouses and cond0.50 0.70   0.60 0.80
              Commercial and industrial       0.50 0.95   0.60 0.95
Steep (7%+)    Woodlands                       0.20 0.25   0.25 0.30
              Pasture, grass and farmland     0.25 0.35   0.30 0.40
              Rooftops and pavement           0.95        0.95
              Single-family residential:
                 1/2 acre lots and larger  0.40 0.55   0.50 0.65
                 Smaller lots              0.45 0.60   0.55 0.70
              Multi-family residential:
                 Duplexes                  0.45 0.60   0.55 0.70
                 Apts., townhouses and cond0.60 0.75   0.65 0.85
              Commercial and industrial       0.60 0.95   0.65 0.95
*Coefficients assume good ground cover and conservation treatment.
**Weighted coefficient based on percentage of impervious surfaces and
green areas must be selected for each site.
 
 
 
Return Period (yrs.) Multiply C by
25                   1.1
50                   1.2
100                  1.25
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2249.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2251.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2253.jpg]
(Prior Code, § 11-8-8) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
CHAPTER 159: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Administration and Enforcement
   
159.001   Purposes
   
159.002   Policy
   
159.003   Authority
   
159.004   Jurisdiction
   
159.005   Administration and amendment
   
159.006   Variances
Definitions
   
159.020   Word usage
   
159.021   Terms defined
Platting Application and Approval Process
   
159.035   Plat Review Committee
   
159.036   General platting procedure
   
159.037   Sketch plan
   
159.038   Preliminary plat
   
159.039   Record plat
Community Design Principles
   
159.050   Design purpose
   
159.051   Neighborhood development principles
   
159.052   Circulation
   
159.053   Principles of neighborhood development diagram
Improvements, Assurance for Completion and Maintenance
   
159.065   Completion of improvements
   
159.066   Subdivision improvements guarantees
   
159.067   Time limits
   
159.068   Inspection and certification
   
159.069   Acceptance of improvements by local government
   
159.070   Reduction of guarantees
   
159.071   Warranty of improvements against defects
Design Standards
   
159.085   Streets
   
159.086   Alleys
   
159.087   Easements
   
159.088   Blocks
   
159.089   Lots
   
159.090   Parks
Improvements Required
   
159.105   Guidelines for acceptance
   
159.106   Sidewalks
   
159.107   Water facilities
   
159.108   Survey monuments and signs
   
159.109   Sewerage facilities
   
159.110   Street improvements
 
   
159.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Subdivision Procedure Approval Forms
   
Appendix B: Plat Certificates and Dedications
   
Appendix C: Subdivision Fee Schedule
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 159.001 PURPOSES.
   (A)   Scope of regulations. Subdivision is the process through which raw
land is converted into buildable sites for residential, commercial and
industrial uses. The physical arrangement of these lots along with provisions
for streets, alleys, utilities, schools, parks and other community facilities
will in large part determine the quality of life in the community and,
therefore, of public interest. The regulation of land subdivision is widely
accepted as a function of municipal and county government. Such regulations
establish standards that ensure that the growth of urban areas will reflect
sound planning and will not be detrimental to the community.
   (B)   Purposes. This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
      (1)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of Holdenville and the surrounding area of Hughes County;
      (2)   To implement the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy, to secure safety
from fire, flood and other danger, and to prevent overcrowding of the land;
      (4)   To protect and conserve the value and desirability of land and
neighborhoods throughout the community;
      (5)   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation and other public requirements and facilities;
      (6)   To provide that the cost of improvements that primarily benefit the
tract of land being subdivided be borne by the owners or developers of the
tract, and that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the whole
community be borne by the community as a whole;
      (7)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions;
      (8)   To ensure proper legal descriptions, monumenting of land, and
adequate and accurate platting and records of land subdivision;
      (9)   To harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of
land to the existing community and facilitate the future development of
adjoining tracts;
      (10)   To encourage the wise use and management of natural resources
throughout the municipality in order to maintain and enhance the integrity,
stability and beauty of the community and the value of the land;
      (11)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the municipality
and to ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features;
and
      (12)   To establish a subdivision process that is as expeditious and
efficient as possible.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.002 POLICY.
   (A)   Compliance with official comprehensive plan. By the adoption of this
chapter, it is hereby declared as public policy that the subdivision and
subsequent development of land shall be subject to the terms of this chapter
for the accomplishment of high quality community development through orderly,
planned, efficient, aesthetic and economical subdivision in accordance with the
official comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Character of land. Land to be subdivided shall be of such character
that it can be used safely for building purposes without danger to health or
peril from fire, flood or other menace nor unnecessarily subject existing
development to such danger or peril. It is further intended that land shall not
be subdivided until proper provision has been made for drainage, water and
sewerage.
   (C)   Public improvements. The existing and proposed public improvements
shall conform to and be properly related to the features of the official
comprehensive plan, the major street and thoroughfare plan, the sewer and water
plan, all other adopted plans for specific aspects of the community, and
adopted capital programs and budgets.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.003 AUTHORITY.
   These subdivision regulations and minimum standards for land developments
are adopted by the City Council and the County Board of Commissioners under the
authority granted by 19 O.S. §§ 866.1 through 866.35.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.004 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Governing provisions. The regulations of this chapter shall govern all
forms of “subdivision” as defined in § 159.021 of this chapter, and shall be
applicable to all the area within the incorporated limits of Holdenville,
Oklahoma, as well as the unincorporated areas of Hughes County within three
miles of the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   Forms of subdivisions. This chapter shall apply to the following forms
of land subdivision:
      (1)   The division of land or air space into two or more tracts, lots,
sites, parcels, units, plots or interests for the purpose of sale, lease or
development, any one of which when subdivided shall contain less than ten acres
in area;
      (2)   The division of land previously subdivided or platted into tracts,
lots, sites, parcels, units, plots or interest less than ten acres in area; and
      (3)   The dedication of any street or alley through any tract of land.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.005 ADMINISTRATION AND AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Rules and policies. The Metropolitan Area Planning Commission (MAPC)
may, from time to time, adopt, amend and make public rules and policies for the
administration of this chapter in order to maintain an informed public and
assist the subdivider in the expeditious review and approval of his or her
subdivision plat.
   (B)   Amendment after public hearing. The regulations of this chapter may be
enlarged or amended only after a public hearing has been held by the MAPC and
adopted by ordinance, carried by not less than a majority of the full
membership of the MAPC. Such amendments shall be effective upon approval by the
City Council and the County Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.006 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General. Where the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary
hardships or practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with this
chapter and/or the purpose of this chapter may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these subdivision
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured; provided, that such variance shall not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of this chapter; and further provided, the Planning
Commission shall not approve variances unless it shall make findings based upon
the evidence presented to it in each specific case; that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare or injurious to other property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance are based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result; and
      (4)   The variances will not in any manner vary the provisions of this
chapter or conflict with the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Conditions. In approving variances, the Planning Commission may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards or requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   A request for a variance shall be submitted in writing by the
subdivider when the preliminary plat is filed. The request shall state the
grounds for the application and the facts relied upon by the subdivider.
Approval shall require the concurring vote of a majority of the full membership
of the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission (MAPC).
      (2)   If the variance request is in an established area after plat
approval, the applicant must pay $25 with the application to the city, after
which the building inspector (code enforcement officer) shall issue written
notice at least ten days prior to a hearing to the immediately adjacent
property owners (not related or owned by applicant) within 100 feet of the
subject property.
      (3)   The hearing shall be scheduled before the subcommittee of the
Planning Commission, which shall thereafter make a recommendation to the full
Planning Commission. In the absence of appointment of a Planning Commission,
the City Council, sitting en banc, shall serve in such capacity as the final
authority to make administrative variance decisions.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-6) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997; Ord. 745, passed 7-19-2011)
DEFINITIONS
§ 159.020 WORD USAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain numbers, abbreviations, terms
and words used herein shall be used, interpreted and defined as set forth in
this subchapter.
   (B)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in
the present tense include the future tense; words used in the plural number
include the singular; the word HEREIN means “in these regulations”; the word
REGULATIONS means “the regulations of this chapter”.
   (C)   A PERSON includes a corporation, a partnership and an incorporated
association of persons such as a club; SHALL is always mandatory; the word
BUILDING includes a “structure”; a BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part
thereof; “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building shall be
construed to include the words “intended, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied”.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.021 TERMS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION. The person designated
to administer these regulations and to assist administratively other boards and
commissions.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways
or boundary lines of municipalities.
   BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the governing body. All BONDS shall be approved by the governing body
wherever a bond is required by these regulations.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind, and includes any
structure.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM. A proposed schedule of all future projects
listed in order of construction priority together with cost estimates and the
anticipated means of financing each project. All major projects requiring the
expenditure of public funds, over and above the annual local government’s
operating expenses, for the purchase, construction or replacement of the
physical assets for the community are included.
   CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A community sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision in
an outlying area.
   CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A private water company formed by a developer to serve
a new community development in an outlying area. It includes water treatment
and distribution facilities.
   CITY INSPECTOR. The person designated by the local government to enforce the
zoning ordinance. If no administrative assistant to the Planning Commission is
appointed to administer these regulations, the city inspector shall administer
these regulations.
   COLLECTOR ROADS. A road intended to move traffic from local roads to
secondary arterials. A COLLECTOR ROAD serves a neighborhood or larger
subdivision and should be designed so that no residential properties face onto
it.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. See definition of MASTER PLAN.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps or drawings accompanying a preliminary
subdivision plat and showing the specific location and design of improvements
to be installed in the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the
Planning Commission as a condition to the approval of the plat.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of any designated part of his or her property.
   ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the local government in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond. Such escrow
funds shall be deposited by the city inspector into a separate account.
   FINAL PLAT. See definition of RECORD PLAT.
   FRONTAGE. That side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot, but it shall not be considered as the
ordinary side of a corner lot.
   FRONTAGE STREET. Any street to be constructed by the developer or any
existing street in which development shall take place on both sides.
   GOVERNING BODY. The body of the local government having the power to adopt
ordinances.
   GOVERNMENTAL ATTORNEY. The licensed attorney designated by the governing
body to furnish legal assistance for the administration of these regulations.
   GOVERNMENTAL ENGINEER. The licensed engineer designated by the governing
body to furnish engineering assistance for the administration of these
regulations.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in
percentage terms.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT and HEALTH OFFICER. The agency and person designated by
the governing body to administer the health regulations of the local
government.
   HIGHWAY, LIMITED ACCESS. A freeway or expressway providing a trafficway for
through traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property
or lands and other persons have no legal right to access to or from the same,
except at such points and in such manner as may be determined by the public
authority having jurisdiction over such trafficway.
   IMPROVEMENT. See definition of LOT IMPROVEMENT or PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system, or any other approved sewage treatment device.
   JOINT OWNERSHIP. Joint ownership among persons shall be construed as the
same owner; “constructive ownership” for the purpose of imposing subdivision
regulations.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. For the purpose of these regulations, the Holdenville City
Council or Hughes County Board of Commissioners authorized by law to enforce
subdivision regulations.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT ATTORNEY. See definition of GOVERNMENTAL ATTORNEY.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENGINEER. See definition of GOVERNMENTAL ENGINEER.
   LOCAL ROAD. A road intended to provide access to other roads from individual
properties and to provide right-of-way beneath it for sewer, water and storm
drainage pipes, and includes cul-de-sac, lane and place.
   LOT. A tract, plot or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or for building development.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior
angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
   LOT IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, place, work of art or other
object, or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment. Certain
lot improvements shall be properly bonded as provided in these regulations.
   MAPC. Metropolitan Area Planning Commission.
   MPC. Municipal Planning Commission of Holdenville.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. See definition of OFFICIAL MAP.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including, but not limited to, subdivisions of five or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the local governmental
facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
   MASTER PLAN. A general plan for development of the local government,
prepared and adopted by the Planning Commission, pursuant to state law, and
including any part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such
plan, or parts thereof.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than four lots and
fronting on an existing street, not involving any new street or road, or the
extension of municipal facilities, or the creation of any public improvements,
and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property,
and not in conflict with any provision or portion of the comprehensive plan,
official map, zoning ordinance, or this chapter.
   MODEL HOME. A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which
typifies the type of units that will be constructed in the subdivision. Such
dwelling units may be erected, at the discretion of the Planning Commission, by
permitting a portion of a major subdivision involving no more than two lots to
be created according to the procedures for minor subdivisions.
   MUNICIPALITY. See definition of LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
   NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial. Such subdivisions shall comply
with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   OFF SITE. Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The map established by the governing body pursuant to law
showing the streets, highways and parks, and drainage systems and setback lines
theretofore laid out, adopted and established by law, and any amendments or
additions thereto adopted by the governing body or additions thereto resulting
from the approval of subdivision plats by the Planning Commission and the
subsequent filing of such approved plats.
   ORDINANCE. Any legislative action, however denominated, of a local
government which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any
ordinance.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under these
regulations.
   PARK AND RECREATION IMPROVEMENT FUND. A special fund established by the
governing body to retain monies contributed by developers in accordance with §
159.090 of this chapter for the specific purpose of acquisition, improvements,
and development of park land in the city.
   PERIMETER STREET. Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The local government’s Planning Commission established
in accordance with law.
   PLATS REVIEW COMMITTEE. A board established by the governing body to provide
technical services to the Planning Commission in the administration of these
regulations.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Planning Commission for approval.
   PRIMARY ARTERIAL. A road intended to move through traffic to and from such
major attractors as central business districts, regional shopping centers,
colleges and/or universities, military installations, major industrial areas,
and similar traffic generators within the governmental unit; and/or as a route
for traffic between communities or large areas.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement or other
facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established. All such
improvements shall be properly bonded.
   RECORD PLAT. The map or plan of a subdivision which is to be filed in the
office of the County Clerk.
   REGISTERED ENGINEER. An engineer properly licensed and registered in the
State of Oklahoma.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and registered
in the State of Oklahoma.
   RESUBDIVISION. A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision
plat, if such change affects any street layout on such map or area reserved
thereon for public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or plan
legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivision.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees or for another
special use. The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY hereinafter established and
shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels
adjoining such right-of- way and not included within the dimensions or areas of
such lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, shade trees, or other use involving
maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of
the plat on which such RIGHT-OF-WAY is established.
   ROAD, CLASSIFICATION. For the purpose of providing for the development of
the streets, highways, roads and rights-of-way in the governmental unit, and
for their future improvement, reconstruction, realignment and necessary
widening, including provision for curbs and sidewalks, each existing street,
highway, road and right-of-way, and those located on approved and filed plats,
have been designated on the official map of the local government and classified
therein. The classification of each street, highway, road and right-of-way is
based upon its location in the respective zoning districts of the local
government and its present and estimated future traffic volume and its relative
importance and function as specified in the master plan of the local
government. The required improvements shall be measured as set forth for each
street classification on the official map.
   ROAD, DEAD END. A road or portion of a street with only one vehicular
traffic outlet.
   ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The distance between property lines measured at
right angles to the centerline of the street.
   SALE or LEASE. Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any
possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise,
intestate succession or transfer of an interest in a subdivision or part
thereof, whether by metes and bounds, deed, contract, plat, map, lease, devise,
intestate succession or other written instrument.
   SCREENING.
      (1)   Either:
         (a)   A strip of at least ten feet wide, densely planted (or having
equivalent natural growth) with shrubs or trees at least four feet high at the
time of planting, of a type that will form a year-round dense screen at least
six feet high; or
         (b)   An opaque wall or barrier or uniformly painted fence at least
six feet high.
      (2)   Either division (1)(a) or (1)(b) of this definition shall be
maintained in good condition at all times and may have no signs affixed to or
hung in relation to the outside thereof except the following: for each
entrance, one directional arrow with the name of the establishment with “For
Patrons Only” or like limitation, not over two square feet in area, which shall
be nonilluminated. Where required in the zoning regulations, a screen shall be
installed along or within the line of plants as a protection to adjoining or
nearby properties.
   SECONDARY ARTERIAL. A road intended to collect and distribute traffic in a
manner similar to primary arterials, except that these roads service minor
traffic generating areas such as community commercial areas, primary and
secondary educational facilities, hospitals, major recreational areas,
churches, and offices, and/or designed to carry traffic from collector streets
to the system of primary arterials.
   SETBACK. The distance between a building and the street line nearest
thereto.
   SKETCH PLAT. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary plat
(or subdivision plat in the case of minor subdivisions) to enable the
subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the
Planning Commission as to the form of the plat and the objectives of these
regulations.
   STREET. See definition of ROAD, CLASSIFICATION.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who:
      (1)   Having an interest in land, causes it, directly or indirectly, to
be divided into a subdivision;
      (2)   Directly or indirectly, sells, leases or develops, or offers to
sell, lease or develop, or advertises for sale, lease or development, any
interest, lot, parcel, site, unit or plat in a subdivision;
      (3)   Engages directly or through an agent in the business of selling,
leasing, developing of offering for sale, lease or development of a
subdivision, and/or any interest, lot, parcel, site, unit or plat in a
subdivision; and
      (4)   Is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct, or
indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to
be divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or interests for
the purpose of offer, sale, lease or development, either on the installment
plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and conditions, including
resubdivision. SUBDIVISION includes the division or development of residential
and nonresidential zoned land, whether by deed, metes and bounds description,
devise, intestacy, lease, map, plat or other recorded instrument.
   SUBDIVISION AGENT. Any person who represents, or acts for or on behalf of, a
subdivider or developer in selling, leasing or developing, or offering to sell,
lease or develop any interest, lot, parcel, unit, site or plat in a
subdivision, except an attorney at law whose representation of another person
consists solely of rendering legal services.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT. The final map or drawing, described in these regulations,
on which the subdivider’s plan of subdivision is presented to the Planning
Commission for approval and which, if approved, may be submitted to the County
Clerk or Recorder of Deeds for filing.
   TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and prior to release of the performance
bond.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
   PLATTING APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS
§ 159.035 PLAT REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Composition. A Plat Review Committee is hereby established for the
purpose of providing technical review and assistance to the MAPC and governing
bodies in the application of this chapter. The Committee shall be composed of
the following administrative officials:
      (1)   City Clerk;
      (2)   City inspector;
      (3)   Chief of Police;
      (4)   Fire Marshal; and
      (5)   Park superintendent.
   (B)   Review and comment, other officials. Review and comment regarding
plats submitted for approval shall also be solicited from the following, as
appropriate:
      (1)   Superintendent of schools;
      (2)   Division manager, gas service company;
      (3)   District superintendent, public service company; and
      (4)   District conservationist, Ouachita Valley Soil Conservation
District.
   (C)   Coordinator. The administrative assistant to the MAPC shall serve as
coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.036 GENERAL PLATTING PROCEDURE.
   For all cases of subdivision within the scope of this chapter, a plat of
land in question shall be drawn and submitted to the MAPC and/or governing body
for their approval or disapproval, as provided below.
   (A)   Classification. A proposed subdivision may be classified as a major or
minor subdivision (as defined in § 159.021 of this chapter) and processed as
follows:
      (1)   Minor subdivision.
         (a)   Sketch plan; and
         (b)   Record plat.
      (2)   Major subdivision.
         (a)   Sketch plan;
         (b)   Preliminary plat; and
         (c)   Record plat.
   (B)   Official recording. No plat or other land subdivision instrument shall
be filed in the office of the County Clerk until it shall have been approved by
the MAPC, and by the City Council as hereinafter set forth. All record plats
shall be filed within two years of the date of governing body approval, and no
lots shall be recorded as transferred by the County Clerk regarding any record
plat until the record is filed. Failure to record the plat within two years of
the date of governing body approval shall void all approvals thereto.
   (C)   Plat vacation. Plats may be vacated by owner or governing body in
accordance with the statutes of the state.
   (D)   Agenda. Each plat submitted for approval shall be placed on the agenda
of the MAPC and governing body only after fulfilling the administrative
procedures of this chapter. However, a plat not meeting all of the
administrative requirements may be placed on the agenda, provided the
subdivider presents with the plat a written request for specific exemptions and
enumerates in detail the reasons therefor.
   (E)   Official submission dates. For the purposes of this chapter, for both
major and minor subdivisions, the date of the regular meeting of the MAPC or
governing body at which the proposed subdivision is first discussed shall
constitute the official submittal date of the plat at which the statutory
period required for formal approval or disapproval of the plat shall commence
to run.
   (F)   Filing fee. To defray partially the costs of notification and
administrative procedures, a fee shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time of
submission in an amount according to the fee schedule as contained in Appendix
C, at the end of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.037 SKETCH PLAN.
   The purpose of the sketch plan is to provide the subdivider, the MAPC and
governing officials an opportunity to identify some of the problems concerning
the land use, general design and overall approaches to installation of
improvements before the expenditure of large amounts of money and manpower in
the preparation of more detailed platting documents. Information contained in
the sketch plan is intended for general guideline purposes. Changes may be
permitted in the more detailed studies where it is demonstrated a more
efficient design will result. This step in the overall subdivision process is
important because it is at the initial part of the process when decisions are
to be made that can have great value for the fulfillment of the comprehensive
plan; or, conversely decisions wrongly made at this point can be very damaging
to the fulfillment of the comprehensive plan. It is important that all of the
land to be included in the proposed subdivision shall be included in the sketch
plan so that an overview of the entire area can be accomplished.
   (A)   Discussion of requirements. Before preparing the sketch plan the
subdivider should discuss with the secretary of the MAPC the procedure for the
adoption of a subdivision plat and the requirements as to general layout of
streets and for dedications of land, street improvements, drainage, sewerage,
fire protection and similar matters, as well as the availability of existing
services.
   (B)   Submission and content. After discussing the proposed subdivision with
the Secretary of the MAPC the subdivider shall file an application for approval
of a sketch plan. The application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available from the secretary of the MAPC and be
submitted to him or her in duplicate at least 21 days before the next regular
MAPC meeting at which it is to be discussed;
      (2)   Be accompanied by the filing fee as provided in § 159.036(F) of
this chapter; and
      (3)   Be accompanied by a minimum of ten copies of the sketch plan which
shows all of the land that is proposed to be included in this and subsequent
phases of the development, all contiguous land that is in the same ownership,
and all contiguous land in which the subdivider has an interest. The sketch
plan shall be on a topographic map with a scale of one inch equals 200 feet
with contour intervals of five feet, and show the following information:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision, north arrow, scale and location
map;
         (b)   Areas subject to flooding;
         (c)   Soil types;
         (d)   Existing natural features such as masses of trees, streams and
the like;
         (e)   Location and size of existing storm drainage facilities, major
public and private utilities, and any easements on file (with citation from
book and page from the County Clerk’s office, if possible);
         (f)   The general alignment of proposed streets, proposed names, how
they will connect to existing streets, and the function intended for each
(i.e., collector, local and the like);
         (g)   The general arrangement proposed for lots and blocks and their
relationship to already developed features on adjacent lands;
         (h)   The general arrangement of proposed utility services and
easements;
         (i)   The general direction that drainage of stormwater is proposed to
be conducted, and what provision is anticipated to carry the water (i.e., in
the streets, in drainage easements, in storm sewers and the like);
         (j)   The location of park spaces, if any; and
         (k)   The types of land use activities that will be placed in the
various areas of the proposed (i.e., schools, open space, apartments,
commercial, residential and the like);
   (C)   Classification and review. The secretary of the MAPC shall transmit
the submittal to the Plat Review Committee and schedule a meeting with the
Committee and the subdivider within 14 days. The purpose of this meeting is to
discuss and resolve conflicts with regulations, and to provide suggestions for
improvements. The Committee shall tentatively classify the sketch layout as a
“major” or “minor subdivision” as defined in § 159.021 of this chapter and
submit their report and recommendations to the MAPC.
   (D)   Requirement for notice. The secretary of the MAPC shall provide for
the placement of posters in visible locations on any public street adjacent to
the proposed subdivision property. Such posters shall give the date on which
the MAPC will first consider the proposal and shall be posted at least seven
days prior to the meeting.
   (E)   Approval of sketch plan. The MAPC shall study the sketch plan and
recommendations of the Plat Review Committee, and may schedule a field trip to
the proposed site. The MAPC shall classify the sketch plan as a “major” or
“minor subdivision” as defined in § 159.021 of this chapter. Upon determining
that the proposed subdivision is consistent with the purposes and policies of
this chapter, the MAPC shall approve the sketch plan. Such determination shall
be made within 45 days of the official submission date or the plan shall be
deemed approved. Should the MAPC deny the sketch plan, the reasons for such
denial shall be stated in writing and provided to the applicant. Action on
sketch plans by the governing body shall be taken within 30 days of referral by
the MAPC or such plans shall be deemed approved. Approval of the sketch plan
shall constitute authorization to prepare and submit a preliminary plat in the
case of a major subdivision and a record plat in the case of a minor
subdivision. The MAPC may require additional changes as a result of further
study of the subdivision in final form.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.038 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The purpose of the preliminary plat is to provide an interim step in the
procedure at which point the subdivider shall present drawings of the detail
features of the subdivision. It is at this point that the items discussed at
the sketch plan stage and as set down herein are prepared in a form from which
determinations can be made as to the technical workability of the development
proposal.
   (A)   Application procedure and requirements.
      (1)   Based upon the approval of the sketch plan the subdivider may file
an application for approval of a preliminary plat.
      (2)   The application shall:
         (a)   Be submitted in duplicate on forms available from the secretary
of the MAPC at least 28 days before the next regular MAPC meeting at which it
is to be discussed;
         (b)   Be accompanied by a minimum of ten copies of the preliminary
plat as described in this chapter;
         (c)   Be accompanied by a minimum of three copies of construction
plans, one of which shall be a reproducible Mylar or sepia print; and
         (d)   Be accompanied by an application fee as provided in § 159.036(F)
of this chapter.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the complete application, the secretary of the MAPC
should transmit copies of the plat to the Plat Review Committee and schedule a
meeting between the subdivider and the Committee within 14 days. Comments and
recommendations will be submitted in writing to the subdivider and the MAPC
prior to the next regular meeting.
   (B)   Contents of preliminary plat.
      (1)   The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed Oklahoma land
surveyor at a convenient scale not more than one inch equals 100 feet, may be
prepared in pen or pencil, and the sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more
than one sheet is used. It should be noted that the map prepared for the
preliminary plat may also be used for the record subdivision plat and,
therefore, should be drawn on tracing cloth or reproducible Mylar; preparation
in pencil will make required changes and additions easier.
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall show the following:
         (a)   The location of property with respect to surrounding property
and streets, the names of all adjoining property owners of record, or the names
of adjoining developments; the names of adjoining streets;
         (b)   The location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the
property to be expressed in feet and hundredths of a foot;
         (c)   The location of existing streets, easements, water bodies,
streams and other pertinent features such as swamps, railroads, buildings,
parks, cemeteries, drainage ditches, bridges, as determined by the Planning
Commission;
         (d)   The location and width of all existing and proposed streets and
easements, alleys and other public ways, and easements and proposed street
rights-of-way and building setback lines;
         (e)   The locations and dimensions of all proposed or existing lots;
         (f)   The locations and dimensions of all property proposed to be set
aside for private open space or playground use, if any, or other public or
private reservation, with designation of the purpose thereof, and conditions,
if any, of the dedication or reservation;
         (g)   The name and address of the owner or owners of land to be
subdivided, the name and address of the subdivider, if other than the owner,
and the name of the land surveyor;
         (h)   The date of the map, approximate true north point, scale and
name of the subdivision;
         (i)   Sufficient data acceptable to the local government engineer to
determine readily the location, bearing and length of all lines, and to
reproduce such lines upon the ground; the location of all proposed monuments;
         (j)   The location and description of all section corners and
permanent survey monuments in or near the tract, to at least one of which the
subdivision shall be referenced;
         (k)   Names of the subdivision and all new streets as approved by the
Planning Commission;
         (l)   Indication of the use of any lot (single-family, two-family,
multi-family, townhouse) and all uses other than residential proposed by the
subdivider;
         (m)   Blocks shall be consecutively numbered or lettered in
alphabetical order. The blocks in numbered additions to subdivisions bearing
the same name shall be numbered or lettered consecutively throughout the
several additions; and
         (n)   All lots shall be consecutively numbered. Outlots shall be
lettered in alphabetical order. If blocks are numbered or lettered, outlots
shall be lettered in alphabetical order within each block.
   (C)   Contents of construction plans. The construction plans shall consist
of specifications and the following sheets:
      (1)   Cover sheet showing:
         (a)   The scale, north point and date;
         (b)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
         (c)   The name and address of the owner of record, the subdivider and
the engineer registered in Oklahoma preparing the plan (official seal and
signature required);
         (d)   A drawing at approximate scale, one inch equals 200 feet
covering the entire area of the sketch plan showing:
            1.   A complete boundary survey showing the bearings, distance,
acreage and error of closure;
            2.   The proposed street and lot pattern;
            3.   The location of all major streets and utilities or extensions
thereof as shown in the elements of the comprehensive plan;
            4.   Land proposed to be dedicated as private open space, if any,
or reserved as schools; and
            5.   The portion of the sketch plan which will be undertaken in
this construction plan; the location of adjoining unplatted land and names of
owners; the names, with intersecting boundary lines, of adjoining subdivisions
and the location of city limits, if falling within or adjoining the tract, and
the locations of abutting improvements and utilities on adjacent land.
         (e)   A key map showing the location of the area of the sketch plan
and construction plan referenced to existing or proposed major streets and to
government section lines. Scale of the key map shall be not less than one inch
equals 1,000 feet.
      (2)   The drainage plan sheet showing:
         (a)   The scale, north point and date;
         (b)   A drawing at approximate scale (not less than one inch equals
200 feet) covering the entire area of the sketch plan showing:
            1.   Proposed new contours for the area of the construction plan
(at two- foot contour intervals);
            2.   Natural contours for the area of the development sketch which
is outside the construction plan (at two-foot contour intervals);
            3.   The quantity of flow for the 100-year storm (one percent
probability) under conditions of full development of the drainage basin in
accordance with the land uses shown on the comprehensive plan; and
            4.   The location, size and type of facilities that will be used to
handle the storm drainage in accordance with Chapter 158 of this chapter.
      (3)   The development plan sheet showing:
         (a)   The scale, north point and date;
         (b)   A drawing of the area of the construction plan at a scale of one
inch equals 50 feet showing:
            1.   The proposed land contours at vertical intervals of not
greater than two feet referenced to a United States survey benchmark or
monument as established by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
or USC and GS. The location and description of construction bench marks shall
be shown;
            2.   The location of existing buildings, watercourses and the
location, size and types of dedicated streets, sanitary and storm sewers, water
mains, culverts, power and natural gas lines and other surface and subsurface
structures and pipelines existing within or immediately adjacent to the
subdivision. The location of all major streets or utilities or extensions
thereof shown in elements of the comprehensive plan;
            3.   The length of the boundaries of the tract, drawn to scale;
            4.   The proposed location and width of the rights-of-way and
pavement of the streets, sidewalks, alleys, easements (for public and/or
private utilities including street lighting), lot lines, setback lines and all
areas to be dedicated, all scaled to the nearest foot;
            5.   The proposed location, size and type of water mains, including
the location of such other features to be installed as, but not limited to,
fire hydrants, valves, pressure regulators and the like;
            6.   The proposed location, size and type of sanitary sewer mains,
submains and laterals;
            7.   The location of proposed streetlights and street name signs;
and
            8.   The distance from section corner or quarter section corner of
major arterial streets shall be referenced by bearing and distance to one
corner of the subdivision.
         (c)   All of the features shown on the preliminary plat; including,
but not limited to, lot line dimensions and setback lines; shall conform to the
zoning regulations as they pertain to the particular zoning districts in which
the subdivision is classified; and
         (d)   The certificate of approval of the plans and specifications by
the city or county health agency when individual sewage disposal devices are to
be installed.
      (4)   The grading plan sheet showing:
         (a)   The scale, north point and date; and
         (b)   A drawing of the area of the preliminary plat at a scale of one
inch equals 50 feet, showing:
            1.   The existing contours at vertical intervals not greater than
two feet;
            2.   The proposed contours at vertical intervals not greater than
two feet;
            3.   The layout of streets, easements and lots;
            4.   The minimum finished floor elevation for each lot located in a
flood hazard area; and
            5.   The limits of any flood hazard area, plus the 100-year flood
elevation and the method or source of calculation.
      (5)   The environmental control sheet, showing:
         (a)   The scale, north point and date; and
         (b)   A drawing of the area of the preliminary plat at a scale of one
inch equals 50 feet, showing:
            1.   The streets, lots, private open space, if any, school
reservations and easements proposed;
            2.   Any existing tree masses and proposed changes;
            3.   Any flood hazard areas;
            4.   Soil types and any limitations or precautions necessitated by
soil conditions;
            5.   Any areas in which the grading plan calls for cuts or fills in
excess of five feet; and
            6.   Measures that will be taken for the control of erosion and
siltation.
      (6)   The plan/profile sheets shall show information as follows:
         (a)   All plan/profile sheets should be at a horizontal scale of one
inch equals 50 feet and a vertical scale of one inch equals five feet and be
drawn so as to relate the profile directly below the plan with station numbers
corresponding vertically between the two. Each sheet shall show both the
vertical and horizontal scale;
         (b)   Each sheet shall be dated and include north point and scale for
each improvement shown. Intersections with other improvements (i.e., water and
sewer crossing) shall be indicated;
         (c)   The sanitary sewer sheet shall show all trunks and laterals and
such other features to be installed such as, but not limited to: manholes,
lampholes and the like;
         (d)   The storm sewer sheet shall show all storm sewers, culverts and
drainage structures necessary for the handling of all runoff from and through
the proposed subdivision. Design shall be in accordance with Chapter 158 of
this chapter, and the “q” calculations for the appropriate frequency storm and
the depth at the intake of each facility to be installed shall be shown; and
         (e)   The street improvement sheet shall include all streets,
sidewalks, other traffic handling facilities and water line crossings to be
installed.
      (7)   Detail sheets showing standard and special details and
specifications.
   (D)   Certification of design. The improvements shown on the construction
plans shall be designed in accordance with the design details contained herein
and/or other standards adopted by the local government. Each sheet of the
preliminary plat and construction drawings shall bear the seal and signature of
the engineer preparing the plat and the cover sheet shall bear the endorsement
of the owner/subdivider.
   (E)   MAPC action. Action must be taken on all preliminary plats submitted
to the MAPC within 45 days of the official submission date, unless the
subdivider agrees in writing to additional time. Otherwise, the plat shall be
deemed to have been approved; provided, however, all construction plans must be
approved by the local government engineer. The MAPC may take any of the
following actions.
      (1)   Approval. Upon determining that the preliminary plat is in
conformance with this chapter, is consistent with the purposes and policies set
forth in §§ 159.001 and 159.002 of this chapter, and is in conformance with the
comprehensive plan, the MAPC shall approve the plat.
      (2)   Conditional approval. The MAPC may elect to place conditions upon
the approval of a preliminary plat, and may stipulate the requirements for
satisfaction of such conditions. The MAPC may approve conditionally a
preliminary plat which is submitted for consideration without the full
preparation of plans and profiles with such stipulations as may be necessary
for the expediting of the review process, or for the assurance of adequate
review of technical materials. An example of such stipulation would be the
approval of a plat with the provision that plans and profiles for streets,
storm drainage and sanitary sewers be completed and approved by the City
Engineer prior to construction. Upon passage of a conditional approval of a
preliminary plat, the MAPC shall state in writing the conditions placed on the
approval and transmit them to the subdivider.
      (3)   Denial. If the MAPC denies the approval of a preliminary plat, the
reasons for the denial shall be stated in writing and transmitted to the
subdivider.
   (F)   Effect of approval. Upon approval or conditional approval of a
preliminary plat and approval of the construction plans by the local government
engineer, one set of drawings shall be endorsed by the Chairperson of the MAPC
and the local government engineer and returned to the subdivider who may then
proceed with installing the improvements and preparing the record plat. Such
approval shall be effective for a period of two years, at the end of which time
a record plat on the subdivision shall have been submitted to the governing
body. Any plat not receiving final approval within the time set forth herein
shall be null and void, and the developer shall be required to resubmit a new
plat for preliminary approval subject to all new zoning restrictions and
subdivision regulations. Provided, however, that the MAPC may extend the period
of preliminary plat approval for a period of one year where substantial work
has been completed or for good cause.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.039 RECORD PLAT.
   The purpose of the record plat is to create a record document which
accurately describes the subdivided land, both as to accurate dimensions, and
as to legal provisions, which are pertinent to the subdivision. Much of the
reason for this step is to make the transfer of land more certain and simple.
Land sales by reference to a legally filed plat are generally less complicated
and more likely to provide the precise legal situation sought. The certainty of
such sales derives from the assurance of an accurate survey and processes
designed to assure the provision of facilities necessary to service the land.
   (A)   General procedure.
      (1)   Minor subdivision. Plats having been classified and approved by the
MAPC as minor subdivisions shall be approved by the governing body prior to
being recorded by the County Clerk. The applicant shall submit the plat to the
secretary of the MAPC who shall have it placed on the agenda of the next
regular meeting of the appropriate governing body. A certificate of approval by
the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission shall be affixed to the plat and
endorsed by the secretary of the MAPC. If the record plat is disapproved,
grounds for this refusal shall be stated in writing, a copy of which shall be
transmitted with the plat to the applicant. The reasons for disapproval shall
refer specifically to those parts of this chapter or the comprehensive plan
with which the plat does not comply.
      (2)   Major subdivisions. Application for approval of record plats for
major subdivisions shall be submitted to the secretary of the MAPC for approval
by the governing body. Such applications shall be made not less than 12 days
before the governing body meeting at which it is to be considered. The
secretary shall determine that the provisions of the preliminary plat and
requirements of this chapter are met and obtain the signature of the MAPC
Chairperson on the plat. It will then be placed on the agenda for governing
body approval. However, record plats which deviate from the provisions of the
preliminary plat as determined by the municipal Planning Commission (MPC)
Chairperson must first be approved by the MPC before submission to the
governing body. Approval by the governing body shall constitute authorization
for filing the record plat with the County Clerk as well as acceptance of
public ways and service and utility, easements and lands dedicated to public
use. It shall also constitute acceptance of these public improvements installed
or in place at the time of submission. The disapproval of any plat by the
governing body shall be deemed a refusal of the proposed dedications thereon.
The governing body shall act on the plat within 30 days of its official
submission date or it shall be deemed to be approved. The record plat shall be
filed in the office of the County Clerk within two years from the date of
approval or it shall be considered as having been voided.
   (B)   Application requirements. The application for approval of a record
plat shall be made on forms available from the Secretary of the MAPC and
submitted in duplicate. The application shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Record plat drawings consisting of:
         (a)   The original drawing made with India ink on a good grade linen
tracing cloth or a print on a stable polyester base film made by photographic
processes from a film scribing tested for residual hypo with an approved hypo
testing solution to assure permanency; and
         (b)   Three line prints, one of which shall be on cloth.
      (2)   One copy of the proposed restrictive covenants;
      (3)   Two sets of as built plans for all the improvements installed and
to be accepted. As built plans shall be certified and signed by an engineer
registered in the state;
      (4)   A filing fee, as provided for record plats in § 159.036(F) of this
chapter;
      (5)   An inspection fee, as provided for in § 159.068 of this chapter;
and
      (6)   All required bonds or assurances for completion or maintenance as
provided for in § 159.066 of this chapter.
   (C)   Drafting. Any plat submitted for recording shall have the following
specifications.
      (1)   The dimensions of the plat shall be 24 inches by 36 inches and
shall be drawn to a minimum scale of one inch equals 100 feet; except that
plats in which all lots contain an area in excess of 40,000 square feet, the
plat may be drawn to a scale of one inch equals 200 feet.
      (2)   The drawing surface of the plat shall have a binding margin of two
inches on the left side of the plat, a margin of not less than one inch at the
right side, and a margin of not less than one and one-half inches at the top
and bottom.
   (D)   Contents of record plat. The record plat shall show:
      (1)   A key map showing the location of the subdivision referenced to
government survey section lines and major streets. If more than two sheets are
required, the key map shall show the sheet number for each area;
      (2)   The location and description of all section corners and permanent
survey monuments in or near the tract, to at least one of which the subdivision
shall be referenced;
      (3)   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and hundredths
thereof, and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees and minutes, as hereafter specified;
      (4)   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided fully dimensioned
by lengths and bearings, and the location of boundary lines of adjoining lands,
with adjacent subdivisions identified by official names;
      (5)   The lines of all proposed streets fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles;
      (6)   The radii, arcs, points of tangency, points of intersection and
central angles for curvilinear streets and radii for all property returns;
      (7)   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the length or direction of
an alley is not readily discernible from data given for lot and block lines,
the length and bearing shall be given;
      (8)   The widths and names, where appropriate, of all proposed street
rights-of-way and alleys, and of all adjacent streets, alleys and easements
which shall be properly located;
      (9)   The lines of all proposed lots fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles, except that where a lot line meets a street line at right
angles, the angle or bearing value may be omitted;
      (10)   The outline of any property which is offered for dedication to
public use fully dimensioned by lengths and bearings with the area marked
“Public”;
      (11)   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire
subdivision and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, with
areas to be excluded from platting marked “Reserved” or “Not a Part”;
      (12)   The location of all building lines, setback lines and easements
for public services or utilities with dimensions showing their locations;
      (13)   The proper acknowledgments of owners;
      (14)   The following which shall be made and shown on the original:
         (a)   Owner’s certificate and dedication, signed;
         (b)   Registered land surveyor’s certificate of survey, signed and his
or her seal;
         (c)   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated to
the public;
         (d)   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds which directly
affect the land being subdivided;
         (e)   Certificate of Planning Commission approval;
         (f)   Certificate of governing body acceptance of ways, easements and
public land dedications; and
         (g)   Treasurer’s certificate.
      (15)   A title which shall include:
         (a)   Name of the subdivision;
         (b)   Name of city, county and state; and
         (c)   Location and description of the subdivision referenced to
section, range, township.
      (16)   When individual sewage disposal devices have been installed, the
certificate of the city or county health department shall accompany the plat.
   (E)   Parks. The park land fee required in § 159.090 of this chapter shall
be submitted to the Planning Department prior to the release of the record plat
for recording.
   (F)   Recording. No record plat or other land subdivision instrument shall
be filed in the office of the County Clerk until it shall have been approved by
the MAPC or governing body as required. All record plats shall be filed within
two years of the date of approval, and no lots may be sold from such plat until
recorded.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-5) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
COMMUNITY DESIGN PRINCIPLES
§ 159.050 DESIGN PURPOSE.
   (A)   The quality of design of the urban area is dependent on the quality of
design of the individual subdivisions that compose it. Good community design
requires the coordination of the efforts of each subdivider and developer of
land within the urban area. Therefore, the design of each subdivision shall be
prepared in accordance with the principles established by the comprehensive
plan for land use, circulation, community facilities and public utility
services, and in accordance with the general principles contained in this
chapter.
   (B)   Minimum standards for development are contained in the zoning
ordinance, the Building Code and in these regulations. However, the
comprehensive plan expresses policies designed to achieve optimum quality of
development in the urban area. If only the minimum standards are followed as
expressed by the various ordinances regulating land development, a
standardization of development will occur. This will produce a monotonous urban
setting. Subdivision design should be of a quality to carry out the spirit and
purpose of the policies expressed in the comprehensive plan and in these
regulations rather than be limited to the minimum standards required herein.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.051 NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES.
   (A)   Neighborhood unit. It is intended that the urban area shall be
designed as a group of integrated residential neighborhoods and appropriate
commercial, industrial and public facilities. The neighborhood, as a planning
unit, is intended as an area principally for residential use, and of a size
that can be served by one elementary school. Space for religious, recreational,
educational and shopping facilities to serve the residents of the neighborhood
should be provided and designed as an integral part of each neighborhood.
   (B)   Lot size. The size of lots and blocks and other areas for residential,
commercial, industrial and public uses should be designed to provide adequate
light, air, open space, landscaping and off-street parking and loading
facilities.
   (C)   Amenities. The arrangement of lots and blocks and the street system
should be designed to make the most advantageous use of topography and natural
physical features. Tree masses and large individual trees should be preserved.
The system of sidewalks and roadways and the lot layout should be designed to
take advantage of the visual qualities of the area.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.052 CIRCULATION.
   (A)   Arterial streets. Each subdivision shall provide for the continuation
of all arterials as shown on the major street plan. Arterial streets should be
located on the perimeter of the residential neighborhood.
   (B)   Local streets. Local streets should be designed to provide access to
each parcel of land within the residential neighborhood and within industrial
areas, and in a manner that will discourage use by through traffic. They should
be planned so that future expansion will not require the conversion of local
streets to collector or arterial street functions. Ingress and egress to
residential properties should be provided only on local streets.
   (C)   Collector streets. Collector streets shall be designed to provide a
direct route from local streets to arterial streets and highways. Each
subdivision shall provide for the continuation of collector streets from
abutting subdivisions and shall be located in general conformance to the major
street plan.
   (D)   Pedestrianways. Pedestrian ways should be separated from roadways used
by vehicular traffic. Sidewalks should be designed to provide all residential
building sites with direct access to all neighborhood facilities, including the
elementary school, parks and playgrounds, churches and shopping centers.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)    (U)   Grades. The grades
of all streets shall not exceed the following:
 
Lanes and places             10%
Minor arterial and collector 6%
Subcollector                 10%
No street grade shall be less than 0.5%
 
   (V)   Alignments. The horizontal and vertical alignment for all streets
shall not be less than the following:
      (1)   (a)   Horizontal alignment - centerline radius.
 
Collectors, subcollectors 100 feet minimum
Minor arterials           300 feet minimum
Places, lanes             50 feet minimum
 
         (b)   There should be a tangent between all reverse curves having an
adequate length, in relation to the radii of the curves, to provide for a
smooth flow of traffic.
      (2)   All changes in street grades shall be made with vertical curves
with not less than the following minimum lengths:
 
Collector, local 100 feet, but not less than 20 feet for each algebraic
                 difference of the intersecting slope lines*
Minor arterials  200 feet, but not less than 50 feet for each algebraic
                 difference of the intersecting slope lines
*This requirement may be waived where the algebraic difference is less than
0.60%
 
(Prior Code, § 11-6-1) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.053 PRINCIPLES OF NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT DIAGRAM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2299.jpg]
(Prior Code, § 11-4-4)
IMPROVEMENTS, ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 159.065 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Prior to record plat approval, the subdivider shall complete in a manner
satisfactory to the local government engineer, all improvements required in
this chapter and specified in the preliminary plat as approved by the MAPC, and
shall dedicate same to the local government in accordance with § 159.069 of
this chapter. Record plat approval shall not be granted until said improvements
have been accepted by the local governing body.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.066 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEES.
   The local governing body may waive the requirements of § 159.065 of this
chapter for all or part of the required improvements and permit the subdivider
to provide one of the following guarantees.
   (A)   Surety performance bond. The subdivider shall obtain a security bond
from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in the state. The bond
shall be payable to the local government. The amount of the bond shall be a
100% surety and sufficient to cover one and one-half times the entire cost, as
estimated by the subdivider and approved by the local government engineer, of
installing all specified improvements. The duration of such bond shall be until
such time as the improvements are accepted by the local government in
accordance with § 159.069 of this chapter.
   (B)   Escrow account.
      (1)   The subdivider shall deposit cash, or other instrument readily
convertible into cash at face value, either with the local government, or in
escrow with a bank. The use of any instrument other than cash and in the case
of an escrow account, the bank with which the funds are to be deposited, shall
be subject to the approval of the local government. The amount of the deposit
shall be at least equal to one and one-half times the cost, as estimated by the
subdivider and approved by the local government engineer, of installing all
required improvements.
      (2)   In the case of an escrow account, the subdivider shall file with
the local government an agreement between the financial bank and himself or
herself guaranteeing the following:
         (a)   That the funds of said escrow account shall be held in trust
until released by the local government and may not be used or pledged by the
subdivider for security in any other matter during that period; and
         (b)   And that in the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider
to complete said improvements, then the bank shall immediately make the funds
in said account available to the local government for use in the completion of
those improvements.
   (C)   Letter of credit. The subdivider shall provide, from a bank or other
reputable institution or individual, subject to the approval of the governing
body, a letter of credit. This letter shall be deposited with the local
government and shall certify the following:
      (1)   That the creditor does guarantee funds in an amount equal to one
and one-half times the cost, as estimated by the subdivider and approved by the
local government engineer, of installing all required improvements;
      (2)   That, in the case of failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete the specified improvements within the required time period, the
creditor shall pay to the local government immediately, and without further
action, such funds as are necessary to finance the completion of those
improvements, up to the limit of credit stated in the letter; and
      (3)   That this letter of credit may not be withdrawn, or reduced in
amount, until released by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.067 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Deadline for completion. Prior to the granting of record plat
approval, the subdivider and the governing body shall agree upon a deadline for
the completion of all required improvements, such deadline not to exceed two
years from the date of record plat approval. The governing body shall have the
power to extend that deadline for one additional year where the subdivider can
present substantial reason for doing so.
   (B)   Acceptance denied; failure to comply; actions. If any portion of the
required improvements shall fail to be accepted for dedication in compliance
with § 159.069 of this chapter within the allocated time period either for
reason of incompletion or substandard construction, then one of the following
actions shall be taken:
      (1)   Where improvements have been guaranteed under § 159.065 of this
chapter, the Planning Commission shall revoke preliminary plat approval.
      (2)   Where improvements have been guaranteed under § 159.066(A), (B) or
(C) of this chapter, the governing body shall take the necessary steps to
secure payment under the form of guarantee employed. Where the governing body
is not already in possession of said guarantee, it shall immediately take the
actions necessary to obtain it. Upon receipt of these securities, the governing
body shall use them to finance the completion of contracted improvements or the
rebuilding of such improvements to the proper specifications. Unused portions
of these securities shall be returned to the subdivider, bonding company or
crediting institution, as is appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.068 INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Regular inspections; fee. The local government engineer, or other
knowledgeable official, as specified by the local government, shall regularly
inspect for defects in construction of required improvements and ensure their
satisfactory completion. The applicant shall pay to the local government an
inspection fee as identified in Appendix C, at the end of this chapter. Such
fee shall be due at the time of record plat approval. Upon completion of these
improvements, the local government engineer shall file a statement either
certifying that the improvements have been completed in specific manner or
listing the defects in those improvements.
   (B)   Conveyance of improvements. Upon completion of the improvements, the
subdivider shall file with the local government an agreement to convey said
improvements to the local government. Such statement shall stipulate the
following:
      (1)   All required improvements are complete;
      (2)   These improvements are in compliance with the minimum standards and
specifications adopted by the local government for their construction;
      (3)   The subdivider knows of no defects from any cause in these
improvements; and
      (4)   These improvements are free and clear of any materials or
mechanic’s lien.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-4) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.069 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS BY LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
   If the local government engineer has certified that the improvements are
complete and free from defect, then upon receipt of the other statements and
agreements detailed in § 159.068 of this chapter and upon receipt of two sets
of as built plans, the governing body shall accept the conveyance of those
improvements. The governing body may, at its discretion, accept the conveyance
of any portion of the required improvements; provided, that all specified
statements, agreements and as built drawings have been received for that
portion.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-5) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.070 REDUCTION OF GUARANTEES.
   In those cases where improvement guarantees have been made, the amount of
the guarantee may be reduced upon acceptance of the dedication of a portion of
the required improvements. The amount of reduction shall not exceed the
percentage which the improvement just accepted made up of all originally
required improvements. In no case, however, shall the guarantee be reduced to
less than 15% of the original amount. Upon acceptance of the final portion of
improvements, the governing body shall authorize the release of the remaining
portion of the improvement guarantee.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-6) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.071 WARRANSTY OF IMPROVEMENTS AGAINST DEFECTS.
   The applicant shall be required to maintain all required improvements within
the subdivision until acceptance of the improvements by the local government.
Prior to acceptance, the developer shall be required to obtain a maintenance
bond from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in the state. The
bond shall be payable to the local government. The amount of the bond shall be
equal to 15% of the entire cost of material and labor for all water lines,
sewer lines, paving, grading and drainage improvements. The duration of the
maintenance bond shall be two years from the date of acceptance of said
improvements by the governing body and shall cover only the defects in design,
workmanship and materials.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-7) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 159.085 STREETS.
   The street layout of the subdivision shall be in general conformity with the
transportation element of the comprehensive plan, and provide for the most
advantageous and aesthetically pleasing development of the entire neighborhood,
including adjoining areas. The general design standards set forth herein are
minimum standards. Requirements in environmentally sensitive areas (soils,
slope, flood hazard, woodlands and the like) may be more stringent.
   (A)   Street classifications. The following functional definitions of street
classifications are provided.
      (1)   PLACE. A short street, cul-de-sac, or court. The primary purpose of
a PLACE is to conduct traffic to and from dwelling units to other streets
within the hierarchy of streets. Usually a place is a dead end street with no
through traffic and limited on street parking.
      (2)   LANE. A short street, cul-de-sac, or court, or a street with
branching places or lanes. The primary purpose of a LANE is to conduct traffic
to and from dwelling units to other streets within the hierarchy. Occasionally
a LANE will connect with two or three small places or lanes. Usually, there is
no through traffic between two streets of a higher classification.
      (3)   SUBCOLLECTOR. Provides access to places and lanes and conducts
traffic to an activity center or a higher classification street. It may be a
loop street connecting one collector or arterial street at two points, or a
more or less straight street conducting traffic between collector and/or
arterial streets.
      (4)   COLLECTOR. Functions to conduct traffic between major arterial
streets and/or activity centers. It is a principal traffic artery within
residential areas and carries relatively high volume. A COLLECTOR has potential
for sustaining minor retail or other commercial establishments along its route
which will influence the traffic flow.
      (5)   ARTERIAL. The major street in the hierarchy. It has a high volume
of traffic and is not intended to be a residential street. An arterial provides
connections with major state and interstate roadways and has a high potential
for the location of significant community facilities as well as retail,
commercial and industrial facilities. See Figure A following:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2339.jpg]
   (B)   Arterial and collector streets. Arterial and collector streets shall
conform to the major street plan for the city’s municipal planning area. Where
such are not shown on the plan, the arrangement of streets shall provide for
the continuation or appropriate projection of existing principal streets in
surrounding areas.
   (C)   Protection of residential properties. Whenever a subdivision abuts or
maintains an existing or proposed arterial street, the MPC may require service
streets, double frontage lots with screen planting contained in a nonaccess
reservation along the real property line, or such other treatment as may be
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford
separation of through and local traffic.
   (D)   Local streets. Local streets shall be laid out so that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
   (E)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips of land controlling access to streets
shall be prohibited except where their control is placed in the city, or under
conditions approved by the Municipal Planning Commission (MPC).
   (F)   Proposed future street system. Where the plat to be submitted includes
only part of the tract owned or intended for development by the subdivider, a
tentative plan of a proposed future street system for the unsubdivided portion
shall be prepared and submitted by the subdivider.
   (G)   Extending to boundary lines. Proposed streets shall be extended to the
boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or
other physical conditions, or unless such extension is not necessary or
desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision with the
existing layout of the most advantageous future development of adjoining
tracts.
   (H)   Intersecting of streets. Proposed streets shall intersect one another
as nearly at right angles as topography and other limiting factors of good
design permit. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an angle of less
than 75 degrees shall not be acceptable. An oblique street should be curved
approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right angles for at
least 100 feet therefrom. Not more than two streets shall intersect at any one
point unless specifically approved by the MPC.
   (I)   Half streets. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so
as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half streets. Where an existing half
street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the street shall be
improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The Planning Commission may authorize
a new perimeter street where the subdivider improves and dedicates the entire
required street right-of-way width within his or her own subdivision
boundaries.
   (J)   Dedication of right-of-way; cash deposit. Where a subdivision borders
an existing narrow road, other than an arterial, or where there are plans to
realign or widen a road that would require use of some of the land in the
subdivision, the applicant shall dedicate the additional right-of-way required
to widen or realign such roads. The applicant shall also be required to
construct, at his or her own expense, at least a curb and one-half the pavement
required by division (T) of this section. In lieu of the above, the governing
body may as a minimum require the applicant to deposit in escrow an equivalent
amount of cash. A greater amount may be required where it is determined that
the improvement of the road provides greater benefit to the applicant.
   (K)   Arterial street right-of-way. Where a subdivision borders an existing
or proposed arterial street, the subdivider shall be required to dedicate
sufficient right-of-way to provide for its future widening. All rights-of-way
proposed for dedication shall be graded and top dressed to a condition suitable
for seeding prior to acceptance by the local government.
   (L)   Street jogs. Local street jogs of less than 125 feet should be
avoided.
   (M)   Grade of intersections. Intersections shall be designed with a flat
grade whenever practical. In hilly or rolling areas at the approach to an
intersection, a leveling area should be provided having not greater than a 2%
rate for a distance of 60 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of
the intersecting street.
   (N)   Curb radius. Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two local
streets shall be at least 20 feet; and minimum curb radius at an intersection
involving an arterial or collector street shall be at least 25 feet.
   (O)   Sight distance at intersections. Where any street intersection will
involve earth banks or existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would
create a traffic hazard by limiting visibility, the developer shall cut such
ground and/or vegetation in connection with grading of the public right-of-way
to the extent deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
   (P)   Right-of-way widths. Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards
designated in this chapter shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes
shall not be in excess of three to one (3:1).
   (Q)   Cul-de-sac streets. As a general rule, a cul-de-sac street should not
exceed 500 feet in length measured from the entrance to the center of the
turnaround, or have more than 17 lots facing onto it. A cul-de-sac shall be
provided with a turnaround having a radius of not less than 50 feet at the
property line, and not less than 42 feet at the curb line. There may be
provided in the center of the turnaround an unpaved island, improved with grass
and landscaping that will not interfere with sight distance, which will leave a
minimum paving width of 22 feet (curb face to curb face). Where center medians
are used, they shall be so designed that they will conform to the shape or form
of the outside paving radius in order to promote a safe and more orderly
traffic flow.
   (R)   Dead end streets. Dead end streets shall not be permitted except where
they relate to the extension of the street in the development of adjoining
land. Temporary paved T- or L-shaped turnabouts shall be constructed where lots
are fronting on such temporary dead end streets, with the notation on the
subdivision plat that the land outside the normal street right-of-way shall
revert to abutters whenever the street is continued. Removal of the turnabout
and reconditioning of the right-of-way shall be at the expense of the
subdivider developing the adjoining tract. The length of temporary dead end
streets should not exceed 1,000 feet in length.
   (S)   Minimum right-of-way widths. Street right-of-way widths shall be in
accordance with the major street plan and where not designated therein, shall
not be less than the following:
 
Alleys                    20 feet
Collector                 60 feet
Lanes and places          50 feet
Major arterial or highway 120 feet
Minor arterial            80 feet
Subcollector              50 feet
 
   (T)   Pavement widths. The minimum street pavement widths measured from curb
face to curb face shall be as follows:
 
Alleys and service drives 18 feet
Collector                 32 feet
Lanes and places          26 feet
Minor arterial            44 feet
Subcollector              26 feet
 
   (U)   Grades. The grades of all streets shall not exceed the following:
 
Lanes and places             10%
Minor arterial and collector 6%
Subcollector                 10%
No street grade shall be less than 0.5%
 
   (V)   Alignments. The horizontal and vertical alignment for all streets
shall not be less than the following:
      (1)   (a)   Horizontal alignment - centerline radius.
 
Collectors, subcollectors 100 feet minimum
Minor arterials           300 feet minimum
Places, lanes             50 feet minimum
 
         (b)   There should be a tangent between all reverse curves having an
adequate length, in relation to the radii of the curves, to provide for a
smooth flow of traffic.
      (2)   All changes in street grades shall be made with vertical curves
with not less than the following minimum lengths:
 
Collector, local 100 feet, but not less than 20 feet for each algebraic
                 difference of the intersecting slope lines*
Minor arterials  200 feet, but not less than 50 feet for each algebraic
                 difference of the intersecting slope lines
*This requirement may be waived where the algebraic difference is less than
0.60%
 
(Prior Code, § 11-6-1) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.086 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Commercial and industrial districts.
      (1)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts,
except that the Planning Commission may waive this requirement where other
definite and assured provision is made for service access, such as off street
loading, unloading and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses
proposed.
      (2)   Alleys serving commercial and industrial areas shall not be less
than 30 feet in width of right-of-way.
   (B)   Residential areas. Alleys are not required for residential areas, but
when provided shall not be less than 20 feet in width of right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-2) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.087 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Width. Where alleys are not provided, easements not less than ten feet
wide shall be provided along each real lot line. Where easements for public
water or sanitary sewer utilities are required along side lot lines, they shall
have a minimum width of ten feet and be located wholly within one lot.
   (B)   Utilities. When a subdivision is adjacent to unplatted land, the
easements for public and private utilities shall be:
      (1)   Provided as 20 feet wide on the land being subdivided; or
      (2)   Provided as ten feet wide on the land being subdivided with an
easement of ten feet wide being presented adjacent and simultaneous to the
presentation of the record plat.
   (C)   Watercourse; drainage channel. Where a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainage channel or stream which drains 160 acres or more of land,
there shall be provided a right-of-way or easement for drainage and public
parks and public utility purposes adequate to contain all of the floodway of a
100-year maximum flood. The right-of-way or easement shall include all of the
land within the subdivision that is within the floodway as established by the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
   (D)   Access for equipment. All drainage easements for improved channels,
regardless of the size of the drainage basin, shall be of such dimension as is
necessary to include the full width of the drainageway with the provision of a
level area alongside of at least ten feet in width to provide access for
equipment necessary for construction, cleaning and maintaining of the
drainageway.
   (E)   Obstructions prohibited. No obstructions, including fences, shall be
permitted in easements required for surface drainage.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-3) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.088 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Width requirement; exception. Blocks shall have sufficient width to
provide for two tiers of lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this
prescribed block width shall be permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets,
railroads or waterways, undeveloped lands, or otherwise where necessary to
permit a properly planned subdivision.
   (B)   Dimensions; shape. The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be
such as are appropriate for the locality and the type of development
contemplated, but block lengths shall not exceed 1,200 feet nor be less than
400 feet. Wherever practicable, blocks along major arterial streets shall not
be less than 1,000 feet.
   (C)   Long blocks; easement. In long blocks, the Planning Commission may
require the reservation of an easement through the block to accommodate
utilities, drainage facilities or pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-4) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.089 LOTS.
   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision, and for development contemplated in
compliance with applicable zoning restrictions and the provisions set forth
herein.
   (A)   Energy conservation technologies. The developer is encouraged to
provide to the maximum extent possible lots with suitable orientation for the
application of energy conservation technologies.
   (B)   Width and depth variances. Excessive variances in the relationship of
width and depth should be avoided. A proportion between one to one and two and
one-half to one will normally be considered appropriate.
   (C)   Abutting on street. Every lot shall abut an approved street.
   (D)   Lot arrangement. The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be
no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography, shape, size or other
conditions in securing a building permit to build on all lots in compliance
with zoning ordinance requirements.
   (E)   Side lot lines. Where practicable, side lot lines shall be
approximately at right angles to street lines or radial to curving street
lines.
   (F)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall be platted in such
a manner as to allow for erection of buildings, observing the minimum front and
exterior side yard setback requirements.
   (G)   Double frontage; reversed frontage; screening. Double frontage or
reversed frontage lots shall be avoided except where necessary to provide
separation of residential development from traffic arterials, or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A fencing or planting
screen of at least ten feet in width shall be provided along the portion of the
lots abutting such a traffic artery or other use where screening is required.
There shall be no right of access across a fencing or planting screen easement
except for service to utilities.
   (H)   Access. Lots shall not, in general, derive access exclusively from a
primary or secondary arterial street. Where driveway access from a primary or
secondary arterial street may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the
Planning Commission may require that such lots be served by a combined access
drive in order to limit possible traffic hazard on such street.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-5) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.090 PARKS.
   This section shall apply to all residential subdivision plats within the
corporate limits of the city having a dwelling unit density greater than one
unit per acre, and/or the owners or applicants for approval thereof. All record
plats submitted to the city from and after the effective date hereof shall meet
the requirements of this section.
   (A)   Fee per acre.
      (1)   All persons, firms or corporations subdividing land under the
provisions of this chapter for residential purposes within the boundaries of
the city shall, prior to the filing of their respective record plats, pay a fee
per final platted acre to the city. This fee, as identified in Appendix C, at
the end of this chapter, shall be used by the city for the specific purpose of
acquisition, improvements and development of park land.
      (2)   The subdivider shall tender and pay over to the city a cashier’s
check for said fee immediately prior to the release of the record plat by the
city for recordation.
   (B)   Fund established; use specified. A separate fund to be deposited at
the highest interest rate, to be entitled Park and Recreation Improvement Fund
shall be and is hereby created, and the money paid in by owners, subdividers
and applicants at time of recordation of the record plat and interest thereon,
shall be held in said trust to be used solely and exclusively for the purpose
of purchasing and/or improving public park and recreational land in the city.
Such fees may not be used for maintaining or operating public park facilities.
   (C)   Development of private open space. The above provisions for payment of
public park fees do not abrogate the development of private open space by the
subdivider for park and recreational purposes which is provided in a
subdivision and where such space is to be privately owned and maintained by
future residents of the subdivision. However, the development of private open
space shall not be determined to be a substitute for the payment of public park
fees as required in this section.
   (D)   Stormwater management system. The city, in developing and improving
public park land, shall make every effort to do so in a manner which will also
contribute to improvements in the regional stormwater management system.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-6) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED
§ 159.105 GUIDELINES FOR ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   Rules and regulations. All improvements to be accepted by the local
government shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the following
laws, rules and regulations:
      (1)   All applicable statutory provisions;
      (2)   The comprehensive plan and all its elements to include the major
street plan, public utilities plan, capital improvement program and the parks
and recreation plan;
      (3)   The special requirements of this chapter and any rules of the State
Health Department and/or other appropriate state agencies;
      (4)   The rules of the Oklahoma Department of Transportation, if the
subdivision abuts a state highway; and
      (5)   The standards and regulations adopted by the local government
engineer and all boards, commissions, agencies and officials of the local
government.
   (B)   Withholding of approval. Preliminary plat approval may be withheld if
a subdivision is not in conformity with the above guides or policies or
purposes of this chapter as established in §§
159.001 and
159.002 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-1) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.106 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Approaches to certain sites. A system of surfaced walkways shall be
provided for adequate pedestrian circulation on all approaches to focal points
of pedestrian traffic such as school sites, parks and shopping centers.
   (B)   Rights-of-way of roads. Sidewalks shall be included within the
dedicated nonpavement right-of- way of all roads constructed by the developer
as indicated below:
Arterials     Both sides
             5 feet wide
Collectors    Both sides**
             4 feet wide
Lanes         Optional
Places        Optional*
Subcollectors One side**
             4 feet wide
*The Planning Commission may require sidewalks where the length of the place
or lane is of unusual length or where such sidewalks are considered necessary
to meet the pedestrian needs of the neighborhood
**The Planning Commission may waive this requirement where the developer
proposes a walkway system separate from the street system, or where lots
average one acre or more in size
 
   (C)   Location within right-of-way. In general, sidewalks shall be located
within the public street right-of-way, parallel to the street pavement,
sidewalks along arterial and collector streets shall be placed one foot inside
the right-of-way. On lower classification streets, sidewalks shall be at least
40 inches from the curb except at intersections. The Planning Commission may
approve variations to this alignment in order to preserve topographic and
natural features, or to provide visual interest.
   (D)   Construction specifications. Sidewalks shall be constructed in
accordance with local government standards and specifications.
   (E)   Perpetual unobstructed easements. The Planning Commission may require,
in order to facilitate pedestrian access from the roads to schools, parks,
playgrounds or other roads, additional sidewalks located in perpetual
unobstructed easements at least ten feet in width at side lot lines and 20 feet
at rear lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-2) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.107 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. The subdivider shall install a water supply
system capable of providing domestic water use and fire protection. The
subdivider shall connect to the municipal water supply system except in cases
of hardship, as determined by the MPC. Where the developer does not connect to
the municipal water system, the developer shall provide an adequate potable
water source to serve all of the lots.
   (B)   Specifications. The construction of and the materials used in the
construction of all water supply systems shall be in accordance with the city
specifications and standard plans, the Oklahoma Department of Health standards
and applicable American Water Works Association standards. As a general
standard, water lines shall be constructed of cement lined class 50 ductile
iron pipe or polyvinyl chloride pipe meeting AWWA standard C-900 DR 14. Other
pipe materials or grades may be used when approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Design of water lines.
      (1)   The water distribution system shall consist of grid lines (supply
mains and arteries), distribution lines (feeders) and service lines.
      (2)   Grid lines shall be sized and located in conformance with the
master supply plan.
      (3)   In general, distribution lines shall be located in accordance with
city policies and within all street rights-of-way and easements so as to
provide service to all lots. Distribution lines shall be a minimum of six-inch
nominal internal diameter size except on short cul-de-sacs and in high value
commercial areas. Distribution lines shall be a minimum of four inch nominal
internal diameter on short cul-de-sacs and a minimum of eight inch nominal
internal diameter in high value commercial areas. Distribution lines should
generally be cross connected at intervals not exceeding 600 feet. Dead end
lines should be avoided. Where provided, dead end lines shall be designed with
a flushing device at the end.
      (4)   Gate valves should be located so that individual distribution lines
can be isolated and so that a single break in the line will require no more
than 500 feet of pipe to be disconnected from service in high value areas, no
more than 1,000 feet in other areas. All distribution lines should be valved at
the connection to the grid lines. The locations of valves should preferably be
at street intersections with valuing provided to isolate individual fire
hydrant taps.
      (5)   In areas not included in the master water plan, the distribution
system shall be designed so that negative pressure will not occur under any
conditions of draft on the system. The distribution lines shall be designed to
maintain a minimum pressure of 40 pounds per square inch and a maximum pressure
of 120 pounds per square inch static pressure. The “Hardy Cross” method shall
be used to calculate the pressure.
      (6)   The water distribution system should be designed to avoid areas of
conflict with utilities, storm sewers and sanitary sewers. Locations of all
water lines and appurtenances shall be accurately dimensioned on the
construction plans.
      (7)   The construction plans shall have the construction of any utilities
going under streets noted to be constructed previous to the final surfacing of
the street.
   (D)   Fire hydrants. The location of fire hydrants shall be in accordance
with the city policy; generally fire hydrants shall be located at street
intersections accessible from four directions. The fire hydrant must be set to
match the final grade before acceptance by the city. Acceptable manufacturers:
Mueller-Centurion, U.S. Pipe Metropolitan, Kennedy-K81A or city approved
equivalent.
      (1)   For single-family and two-family residential areas not exceeding
two and one-half stories in height, spacing shall be 500 feet to 600 feet.
      (2)   For all types of development, required fire flow shall first be
estimated by the formula:
   F = 18C(A)0.5 where:
      A = The estimated total floor area in square feet;
      F = The required fire flow in gpm; and
      C = Coefficient related to type of construction as tabulated below:
 
Type Of Construction C Value Maximum Fire Flow (gpm)
Fire resistant       0.6     6,000
Heavy timber         0.9     8,000
Noncombustible       0.8     6,000
Ordinary             1.0     8,000
Wood frame           1.5     8,000
For combinations of the above types of construction, C values may be
interpolated; coefficients shall be between the limits of 1.5 and 0.6
 
      (3)   Greater fire hydrant spacing may be permitted if the applicant
submits technical evidence that required fire flows can be maintained. The
Planning Commission may require closer fire hydrant spacing if conditions exist
which would necessitate more fire hydrants.
   (E)   Chlorination. After the line has been constructed and pressure tested,
it shall be chlorinated in accordance with the OSDH requirements. The
subdivider shall provide access to the line, taps, blow offs, and assist the
city, as necessary, to chlorinate the line. The city will perform the work of
chlorinating the line including the disinfectant and submitting the samples to
the OSDH for testing.
   (F)   Service line crossings. The subdivider shall be responsible for
excavating and backfill of the trenches required for the service lines crossing
the roadway. The subdivider shall coordinate with the city the schedule for
installing the service lines after the line has been successfully chlorinated.
   (G)   Street divider or planter type areas. The subdivider shall install
water lines to each section of street divider or planter type area. Lines shall
be a minimum of two inch nominal internal diameter.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-3) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.108 SURVEY MONUMENTS AND SIGNS.
   The subdivider of any subdivision shall install within that subdivision
monuments and permanent markers in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Intersections. Permanent reference markers shall be placed at the
intersection of the centerlines of rights-of-way regardless of whether the
paving of the street is centered in the right-of-way. There shall be in each
subdivision a minimum of two such monuments. If no two of the intersection
monuments are within line of sight of each other, an additional marker shall be
placed on right-of-way centerline so as to establish a straight line which can
be seen, line of sight, from one end to the other. An additional such marker
shall be placed at the center point of the turnaround in each cul-de-sac. These
markers shall be in the form of a noncorrosive metal plate to be set in
accordance with Figure B in this section and each shall be stamped with a cross
at the point of the intersection.
   (B)   Subdivision boundary. Permanent reference markers shall be placed at
each turning point in the boundary of the subdivision. These markers shall be
an 18 inch long iron pipe or bar of at least five-eighths inch diameter, to be
set in concrete in accordance with Figure B in this section.
   (C)   Block and lot corners. Permanent reference markers shall be placed at
each corner of each block and each corner of each lot. These markers shall be
an 18 inch long iron pipe or bar of at least five-eighths inch diameter to be
driven into firm soil in accordance with Figure B in this section.
   (D)   Curvature and tangency points. Permanent reference markers shall be
placed at the points of curvature and points of tangency of all inside and
outside rights-of-way lines. These markers shall be an 18 inch long iron pipe
or bar of at least five-eighths inch diameter to be driven into firm soil in
accordance with Figure B in this section.
   (E)   Location shown on record plat. The location of all permanent markers
shall be shown on the face of the record plat.
   (F)   Street name signs. Street name signs shall be the responsibility of
the subdivider and shall be in accordance with standards currently in use by
the local government.
   (G)   Figure B.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f3bbd7e9cefc519f051bfd573b9cab21ee3847ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2341.jpg]
(Prior Code, § 11-7-4) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.109 SEWERAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   General. The applicant shall install sanitary sewer facilities in the
method prescribed by the city construction standards and specifications. All
plans shall be designed in accordance with the rules, regulations and standards
of the local government, State Health Department, United States Environmental
Protection Agency and other appropriate agencies.
   (B)   Sanitary sewerage facilities with public sanitary sewer systems.
      (1)   Sewers shall be installed to serve each lot and to grades and sizes
required by the City Engineer. No individual disposal system or treatment plant
(private or group) shall be permitted except as noted herein.
      (2)   The Metro Area Planning Commission may allow the developer to
install a central sewerage system for the development or individual disposal
system if the development is more than 3,000 feet from the nearest public sewer
system (measured from subdivision boundaries), or if the owner of the public
sewer system will not allow the developer to connect to the system. This
provision shall not be applicable to minor subdivisions with an average lot
size greater than two acres. Privately owned systems shall meet the
requirements of the health officer and local government engineer.
   (C)   Design criteria for sanitary sewers.
      (1)   (a)   The design criteria presented herein are not intended to
cover extraordinary situations. Deviations will be allowed and may be required
in those instances where considered justified by the local government engineer.
         (b)   Sanitary sewers should be designed for the ultimate tributary
populations. Due consideration should be given to current and anticipated
zoning and approved sewerage master plans. The capacity of sewage collection
systems should be adequate to hold the anticipated maximum hourly quantity of
sewerage and industrial waste together with an adequate allowance for
infiltration and other extraneous flow. As a unit flow, two-hundredths cubic
foot per second per acre (with an appropriate increase for areas where
apartment buildings or high rises are planned) or 450 gallons per day per
capita (total tributary population must be estimated) should be adequate.
Design flows for areas larger than 300 acres should be adequate if the unit
design factors are one-hundredth cubic foot per second per acre or 300 gallons
per day per capita.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer system shall consist of trunk line sewers, lateral
lines sewers, service connections, pump stations and force mains. Lateral
sewers shall not be less than eight-inch nominal internal diameter except when
the ultimate number of lots served is four or less and the maximum length of
lateral line is 300 feet. The size of trunk lines, force mains and pump
stations should be determined by the capacity and flow considerations described
previously and the directions of the City Engineer. The diameter of proposed
sewers shall not exceed the diameter of the existing or proposed sewer unless
otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Prior to the issuance of any building permits, the developer shall
pay the owner of the public sewer any required fees for connecting to the
sewage system.
      (4)   All sewers should be designed to maintain a mean velocity of not
less than two and five-tenths feet per second when flowing full and shall, as a
minimum, be designed to maintain a mean velocity of not less than two feet per
second when flowing full. Velocity and flow calculation shall be based on the
Manning formula using an “n” value of 0.013, or as directed by the City
Engineer. Lateral lines that will not be extended and serve less than the
equivalent of ten houses shall be sloped not less than 1%. Lateral lines that
will not be extended and serve less than the equivalent of 25 houses and
greater than the equivalent of ten houses should be sloped not less than 0.76%
where feasible. Sewers shall be designed so the velocities will not exceed ten
feet per second at average flows or shall be of a special design approved by
the City Engineer. Sewers shall be provided with protection against
displacement when laid on slopes greater than 7%.
 
Minimum Slopes for Sewer Size Indicated
Sewer Size (Diameter in Minimum Design Slope in Feet Minimum Slope in Feet Per/
Inches)                 Per/100 Feet                 100 Feet
8                       0.52                         0.40
10                      0.39                         0.29
12                      0.30                         0.22
15                      0.22                         0.15
18                      0.18                         0.12
21                      0.15                         0.10
24                      0.12                         0.08
 
      (5)   Pump stations and force mains will be permitted only under
extraordinary conditions of topography and distance to the public sewer system.
Pump stations shall be designed to meet the reliability criteria established by
the City Engineer.
      (6)   All sewers shall be designed with straight alignment between
manholes, unless otherwise directed or approved by the City Engineer.
      (7)   Manholes shall be installed at the end of each line; at all changes
in grade, size or alignment; at all intersections; and at distances not greater
than 400 feet for sewers 15 inches and smaller, and 500 feet for sewers 18
inches in diameter and larger. In lieu of manholes, the City Engineer may
approve inspection cleanouts at end lines where appropriate.
      (8)   The difference in elevation between any incoming sewer and the
manholes invert shall be less than 24 inches except where required to match
crowns. The use of drop manholes will require approval by the City Engineer.
When sewers are increased in size, or when a smaller sewer joins a larger one,
the invert of the larger one shall be lowered sufficiently to maintain the same
energy gradient. The minimum drop through manholes shall be one-tenth foot.
      (9)   Sanitary sewers shall be located within public utility easements,
streets or alley rights-of-way, according to the policy of the owner of the
sewerage system, the directions of the City Engineer and topography
characteristics. When sewers with two or more consecutive manholes located in
easements on private property are proposed, access lanes should be provided to
all manholes. A manhole should be provided at each street or alley crossing.
End lines shall be extended to provide access from street or alley right-of-way
where possible. Imposed loading shall be considered in all locations. No less
than four feet of cover should be provided over top of pipe. In no event shall
less than two and one-half feet of cover be provided unless special protection
is provided for the pipe.
      (10)   There shall be no physical connection between a public or private
potable water supply system and a sewer which will permit the passage of any
sewage or polluted water into the potable supply. Sewers shall be kept removed
from water supply wells or other water supply sources and structures.
      (11)   A minimum horizontal distance of ten feet shall be maintained
between parallel water and sewer lines. The top of the sewer pipe should be a
minimum of two feet lower than the bottom of the water line at points where
they cross. In the event the vertical or horizontal clearance cannot be
maintained, the sewer line shall be constructed out of material pressure rated
for a minimum working pressure of 150 pounds per square inch. When the
horizontal separation cannot be maintained, the sewer shall be laid in a
separate trench from the water line and at a lower elevation.
      (12)   Inverted siphons shall be permitted only under extraordinary
conditions.
      (13)   The width of easements in which sanitary sewers are located shall
be the greater of 12 feet or the width of the sewer plus ten feet.
   (D)   Plan details.
      (1)   The plan and profile along the line of all sewers to be constructed
shall be detailed. The plan and profile shall show all special features. Stream
crossings and sewer outlets shall be shown on the profiles with the elevations
of the streambed and, if known, of the normal and extreme high and low water
levels. Profiles should have a horizontal scale of not more than 100 feet to
the inch and a vertical scale of not more than ten feet to the inch. Both
scales shall be clearly shown on the plan and profile. All known and existing
and proposed structures both above and below the ground which may interfere
with the proposed construction shall be shown both in plan and profile. The
location of service connections shall be noted. The plan shall include a noted
reference to the construction conditions.
      (2)   Figures showing the manhole stationing, size of sewers, surface and
sewer invert elevations of all sewers at each manhole and the grade and length
of all sewers between each two adjacent manholes shall be shown on the
profiles. The dimensioned location of the sewer lines shall be shown on the
plan.
      (3)   The details of all sewer appurtenances such as manholes, drop
manholes, inspection chambers, as well as of any special appurtenances, shall
be included in the plans or a reference shall be made on the plans to the
standard plans of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-5) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.110 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General. The subdivider of any subdivision designed to be used for
residential, commercial, industrial or other purposes shall lay out, grade and
otherwise improve all streets that are designated on the approved plat or that
directly serve the subdivision in accordance with the specifications and
standards of the local government and in accordance with the following
provisions.
      (1)   The design of an improvement of an intersection of any new street
with an existing state or federal highway shall be in accordance with the
specifications of the Oklahoma Department of Transportation, but in no case
shall the standard be less than the applicable local government specifications.
      (2)   Whenever a subdivision contains an arterial street that requires a
street facility that is more costly than is required to serve the future
occupants of the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to pay only the
portion of the cost of an improvement required to serve only the subdivision,
as determined by the governing body.
      (3)   All driveways which connect with public streets shall be
constructed in accordance with the driveway specifications of the city; or
where outside the corporate limits of the city, in accordance with the Oklahoma
State Highway Commission’s Policy on Driveway Regulations for Oklahoma
Highways, revised March, 1968, and subsequent amendments thereto.
   (B)   Private roads. Where private roads not dedicated to the public are
proposed, the subdivider shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   The private roadway easement shall be at least 50 feet in width and
shall always be open to police, fire, and other official vehicles of all
federal, state, county and municipal agencies.
      (2)   On the face of the plat there shall be a notation that the streets
have not been dedicated to the public and shall be maintained by the private
property owners of the subdivision.
      (3)   Private streets which interconnect with public streets shall
generally not be permitted.
   (C)   Specifications. All roadways shall be paved, and curb and gutter
installed according to the following specifications.
      (1)   Portland cement concrete pavement six inches thick laid on two
inches sand cushion with a subgrade compacted to 95% standard proctor. Concrete
to be 3,500 psi, 6 sack mix.
      (2)   Asphaltic concrete (hot mix, hot laid) pavement four inches thick
(two-inch layer type A and two-inch wearing surface type B or C) on a six inch
stabilized aggregate base course with a compacted subgrade. The above asphaltic
concrete street shall have a portland cement concrete curb and 18 inch concrete
gutter.
      (3)   Asphaltic concrete (hot mix, hot laid) pavement seven inches thick
(two-inch layer type A, two-inch layer type B and three-inch layer type C) on a
compacted subgrade. The above asphaltic concrete street shall have a portland
cement concrete curb and 18 inch concrete gutter.
      (4)   That the plans, specifications, details and mode of application
shall be on file in the office of the City Engineer or county for inspection by
or use by any persons concerned with such type of pavement.
      (5)   That the foregoing types of pavement are for residential sections
only, and do not provide for pavement for the business district or industrial
district within the jurisdiction of the regulations, and in no instance shall
the roadway be less than 27 feet from back of curb to back of curb.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-6) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 159.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Building permit issuance. No building permit shall be issued for any
new structure, or change, improvement, or alteration of any existing structure,
on any tract of land subdivided subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
which does not comply with all the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Transfer or sale of parcels. No owner, or agent of the owner, of any
parcel of land located in a proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any
such parcel before a plat of such subdivision has been approved by the Planning
Commission, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and filed in the
office of the County Clerk.
   (C)   Subdivisions less than ten acres. The subdivision of any lot or any
parcel of land of less than ten acres by the use of metes and bounds
description for the purpose of sale, transfer or lease with the intent of
evading this chapter, shall not be permitted. All such described subdivisions
shall be subject to all of the requirements contained in this chapter.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with, or
violates, any of the regulations of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined and/or imprisoned as provided by law for misdemeanors and, in
addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-7) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
APPENDIX A: SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE APPROVAL FORMS
   (A)   Forms enumerated. The following types of forms are keyed to the
subdivision regulations and are intended as a guide for the applicant and staff
in processing a subdivision plat:
Form 1 Application for sketch plat approval
Form 2 Sketch plat checklist
Form 3 Application for preliminary plat approval
Form 4 Preliminary plat checklist
Form 5 Application for final plat approval
Form 6 Checklist for filing of final subdivision plat
Form 7 Performance bond
Form 8 Letter of credit
Form 9 Escrow account
 
   (B)   Forms on file. Copies of the forms as listed in division (A) of this
section shall be and remain on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-1) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
APPENDIX B: PLAT CERTIFICATES AND DEDICATIONS
   Sample language for the following types of plat certificates and dedications
is available for inspection, and shall be and remain on file, in the office of
the City Clerk:
   (A)   Dedication for subdivision plat with public rights-of-way;
   (B)   Dedication for subdivision plat with private streets or easements;
   (C)   Surveyor’s certificate;
   (D)   County Treasurer’s certificate;
   (E)   Certificate of the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission;
   (F)   Certificate of acceptance by City Council for plats within the
municipal jurisdiction;
   (G)   Certificate of acceptance by the County Commission for plats within
the county jurisdiction;
   (H)   Designation of limits of no access on arterial and certain collector
streets;
   (I)   Establishing a restrictive drainageway maintained by lot owners of the
entire addition;
   (J)   Establishing a restrictive drainageway maintained by lot owner;
   (K)   Dedication of a drainageway; and
   (L)   Dedication of a detention area.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-2) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
APPENDIX C: SUBDIVISION FEE SCHEDULE
   The following types of subdivision fees shall be imposed, with a specific
listing of such fees available for inspection, and on file, in the office of
the City Clerk:
 
Fee            Code Section
Filing fees    §
               159.036(F)
Inspection fee §
               159.068(A)
Park land fee  §
               159.090(A)
 
(Prior Code, § 11-9-3) (Ord. 594, passed 8-5-1997)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
476      4-11-1967      Granting a cable television franchise to Teleview
                        Cable, Inc. for 25 years.
618      4-19-2005      Granting an electric franchise to Oklahoma Gas and
                        Electric Company for a period of 25 years.
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
 
O.S. Code Section Code Section
O.S. Code Section            Code Section
3A O.S. 401 et seq.          133.08
4 O.S.                       98.15
10 O.S.                      136.99
10 O.S. 2-2-102              136.19
10 O.S. 401-440              97.16
10 O.S. 1430.2               134.02
11 O.S. 9-114                34.01
11 O.S. 16-101 to 16-113     37.01
11 O.S. 22-111(A)            91.26
11 O.S. 22-111(A)(7)         91.26
11 O.S. 22-112               91.38
11 O.S. 22-138               36.09
11 O.S. 27-101 and 27-102    38.02
11 O.S. 27-111               38.05
11 O.S. 27-123 and 27-124    38.15
11 O.S. 34-101 et seq.       34.01
11 O.S. 49-103 et seq.       35.01
19 O.S. 866.1 through 866.35 159.003
21 O.S.                      133.05
36 O.S.                      98.17
37 O.S. 521                  133.99
37A O.S.                     111.04
37A O.S. 1-101 et seq.       111.01;
                             111.02
37A O.S. 1-103               111.02;
                             111.06
37A O.S. 2-101               111.06
37A O.S. 4-104               111.06
40 O.S. 551 et seq.          31.52
43A O.S. 1-103               133.12
43A O.S. 10-103              133.12
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.        70.03
47 O.S. 1-134                133.12
47 O.S. 7-204                70.33
47 O.S. 7-503                70.33
47 O.S. 7-606                70.33
47 O.S. Chapter 11           133.12
47 O.S. 11-101 et seq.       70.03
47 O.S. 11-1119              133.12
47 O.S. 15-112               73.04
47 O.S. 1102                 70.11
47 O.S. 1134                 70.11
50 O.S. 12                   91.04
50 O.S. 14                   91.04
50 O.S. 15                   91.04
50 O.S. 16                   91.05;
                             91.09
50 O.S. 17                   91.10
51 O.S. 121 et seq.          31.05
60 O.S. 176 to 180           53.09
60 O.S. 180                  53.09
62 O.S. 348.1                100.10
62 O.S. 651 to 664           53.09
63 O.S. 1-229.1 et seq.      97.02
63 O.S. 1-1011               91.07
63 O.S. 1-1101 et seq.       119.072
63 O.S. 1-1401 et seq.       119.072
63 O.S. 1-2515(F)            33.25
63 O.S. 2-101                133.02
                             71.22;
63 O.S. 2-101 et seq.        92.32;
                             133.02
63 O.S. 2-101.1              133.02
63 O.S. 420A et seq.         119.003
63 O.S. 421A                 119.003;
                             119.098
63 O.S. 421A et seq.         119.003
68 O.S. 205                  37.27;
                             37.51
68 O.S. 217                  37.23
68 O.S. 220                  37.24
68 O.S. 227                  37.25
68 O.S. 1401                 37.30
68 O.S. 1622                 95.15
75 O.S. 309 through 317      38.03
82 O.S. 1601 through 1620.1  156.01;
                             156.04
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
1-1-1              10.01
1-1-2              10.02
1-1-3              10.03
1-1-4              10.04
1-1-5              10.05
1-2-1              10.06
1-2-2              10.07
1-2-3              10.08
1-2-4              10.09
1-2-5              10.10
1-3-1              10.25
1-3-2              10.26
1-3-3              10.27
1-4-1              10.99
1-4-2              10.99
1-4-3              10.99
1-4-4              10.11
1-5-1              11.01
1-6-1              30.01
1-6-2              30.02
1-6-3              30.03
1-6-4              30.04
1-6-5              30.05
1-6-6              30.06
1-7-1              31.35
1-7-2              31.36
1-7-3              31.37
1-8-1              31.01
1-8-2              31.02
1-8-3              31.03
1-8-4              31.04
1-8-5              31.05
1-8-7              31.20
1-8-8              31.21
1-8-10             31.22
1-9-1              35.01
1-9-2              35.02
1-10-1             36.01
1-10-2             36.02
1-10-3             36.03
1-10-4             36.04
1-10-5             36.05
1-10-6             36.06
1-10-7             36.07
1-10-8             36.08
1-10-9             36.09
1-11-1             38.01
1-11-2             38.02
1-11-3             38.03
1-11-4             38.04
1-11-5             38.05
1-11-6             38.06
1-11-7             38.07
1-11-8             38.08
1-11-9             38.09
1-11-10            38.10
1-11-11            38.11
1-11-12            38.12
1-11-13            38.13
1-11-14            38.14
1-11-15            38.15
1-11-16            38.16
1-11-17            38.17
1-11-18            38.18
1-11-19            38.19;
                   38.99
1-12-1A            36.20
1-12-1B            36.21
2-1-1              32.001
2-1-2              32.002
2-1-3              32.003
2-1-4              32.004
2-1-5              32.005
2-1-6              32.006
2-1-7              32.007
2-1-8              32.008
2-1-9              32.009
2-1-10             32.010
2-1A-1             32.025
2-1A-2             32.026
2-1A-3             32.027
2-1A-4             32.028
2-1A-5             32.029
2-1A-6             32.030
2-1A-7             32.031
2-1A-8             32.032
2-1A-9             32.033
2-2-1              32.045
2-2-2              32.046
2-2-3              32.047
2-2-4              32.048
2-2-5              32.049
2-2-6              32.050
2-2-7              32.051
2-3-1              32.065
2-3-2              32.066
2-3-3              32.067
2-3-4              32.068
2-3-5              32.069
2-4-1              32.080
2-4-2              32.081
2-4-3              32.082
2-4-4              32.083
2-4-5              32.084
2-4-6              32.085
3-1-1              110.01
3-1-2              110.02
3-1-3              110.03
3-1-4              110.04
3-1-5              110.05
3-1-6              110.06
3-1-7              110.07
3-1-8              110.99
3-2-1              37.01
3-2-2              37.02
3-2A-1             37.15
3-2A-2             37.16
3-2A-3             37.17
3-2A-4             37.18
3-2A-5             37.19
3-2A-6             37.20
3-2A-7             37.21
3-2A-8             37.22
3-2A-9             37.23
3-2A-10            37.24
3-2A-11            37.25
3-2A-12            37.26
3-2A-13            37.27
3-2A-14            37.28
3-2A-15            37.29
3-2A-16            37.30
3-2A-17            37.31
3-2A-18            37.32
3-2A-19            37.33
3-2A-20            37.99
3-2B-1             37.45
3-2B-2             37.46
3-2B-3             37.47
3-2B-4             37.48
3-2B-5             37.49
3-2B-6             37.50
3-2B-7             37.51
3-2B-8             37.52;
                   37.99
3-2B-9             37.53
3-2B-10            37.54
3-3A-1             111.01
3-3A-2             111.02
3-3A-3             111.03
3-3A-4             111.04
3-3A-5             111.05
3-3A-6             111.06
3-3B-1             111.20
3-3B-2             111.21;
                   111.99
3-4-1              112.01
3-4-2              112.02
3-5-1              112.15
3-5-2              112.16
3-5-3              112.17
3-5-4              112.18
3-5-5              112.19
3-5-6              112.20
3-6-1              113.01
3-6-2              113.02
3-6-3              113.03
3-6-4              113.04
3-6-5              113.05
3-6-6              113.06
3-6-7              113.99
3-7-1              114.01
3-7-2              114.02
3-7-3              114.03
3-7-4              114.04
3-7-5              114.05
3-7-6              114.06
3-7-7              114.07
3-7-8              114.08
3-7-9              114.09
3-8-1              115.01
3-8-2              115.02
3-8-3              115.99
3-9-1              116.01
3-9-2              116.02
3-9-3              116.03
3-9-4              116.04
3-9-5              116.05
3-9-6              116.06
3-9-7              116.07
3-9-8              116.08
3-9-9              116.09
3-9-10             116.10
3-9-11             116.11
3-9-12             116.12
3-9-13             116.13
3-9-14             116.14
3-9-15             116.15
3-9-16             116.16
3-9-17             116.17
3-10-1             117.01
3-10-2             117.02
3-10-3             117.03
3-11-1             118.01
3-11-2             118.02
3-11-3             118.03
3-11-4             118.04
3-11-5             118.05
3-11-6             118.99
3-12A-1            119.001
3-12A-2            119.002
3-12A-3            119.003
3-12B-1            119.015
3-12B-2            119.016
3-12B-3            119.017
3-12B-4            119.018
3-12B-5            119.019
3-12B-6            119.020
3-12C-1            119.035
3-12C-2            119.036
3-12C-3            119.037
3-12C-4            119.038
3-12C-5            119.039
3-12C-6            119.040
3-12C-7            119.041
3-12C-8            119.042
3-12C-9            119.043
3-12C-10           119.044
3-12C-11           119.045
3-12C-12           119.046
3-12C-13           119.047
3-12C-14           119.048
3-12D-1            119.060
3-12D-2            119.061
3-12D-3            119.062
3-12D-4            119.063
3-12D-5            119.064
3-12D-6            119.065
3-12D-7            119.066
3-12D-8            119.067
3-12D-9            119.068
3-12D-10           119.069
3-12D-11           119.070
3-12D-12           119.071
3-12D-13           119.072
3-12D-14           119.073
3-12D-15           119.074
3-12D-16           119.075
3-12D-17           119.076
3-12D-18           119.077
3-12D-19           119.078
3-12E-1            119.090
3-12E-2            119.091
3-12E-3            119.092
3-12E-4            119.093
3-12E-5            119.094
3-12E-6            119.095
3-12E-7            119.096
3-12E-8            119.097
3-12E-9            119.098
3-12F-1            119.999
4-1-1              90.01
4-1-2              90.02
4-1-3              90.03
4-1-4              90.99
4-2-1              33.01
4-2-2              33.02
4-2-3              33.03
4-2-4              33.04
4-2-5              33.05
4-2-6              33.06
4-2-7              33.07
4-2-8              33.08
4-2-9              33.09
4-2-10             33.10
4-2-11             33.11
4-3-1              33.25
4-4-1              91.01
4-4-2              91.02
4-4-3              91.03
4-4-4              91.04
4-4-5              91.05
4-4-6              91.06
4-4-7              91.07
4-4-8              91.08
4-4-9              91.09
4-4-10             91.10
4-4-11             91.11
4-4-12             91.12
4-4-13             91.13
4-4-14             91.14
4-5-1              91.25
4-5-2              91.26
4-5-3              91.27
4-5-4              91.28
4-5-5              91.29
4-5-6              91.30
4-5-7              91.31
4-5-8              91.32
4-5-9              91.33
4-5-10             91.34
4-5-11             91.35
4-5-12             91.36
4-5-13             91.37;
                   91.99
4-5-14             91.38;
                   91.99
4-6-1              91.50
4-6-2              91.51
4-6-3              91.52
4-6-4              91.53
4-6-5              91.54
4-6-6              91.55
4-7-1              93.01
4-8-1              94.01
4-8-2              94.02
4-8-3              94.99
4-9-1              95.15
4-10-1             95.01
4-11-1             96.01
4-11-2             96.02
4-11-3             96.03
4-11-4             96.04
4-12-1             57.01
4-12-2             57.02
4-12-3             57.03
4-12-4             57.04
4-12-5             57.05
4-12-6             57.06
4-12-7             57.07
4-12-8             57.08
4-12-9             57.09
4-12-10            57.10
4-12-11            57.11
4-12-12            57.12
4-12-13            57.13
4-12-14            57.14
4-12-15            57.15
4-12-16            57.16
4-13-1             97.01
4-13-2             97.02;
                   97.99
4-13-3             97.03;
                   97.99
4-13-4             97.04;
                   97.99
4-14-1             97.15;
                   97.99
4-14-2             97.16
4-14-3             97.17;
                   97.99
5-1-1              34.01
5-1-2              34.02
5-1-3              34.03
5-1-4              34.04
5-2A-1             130.01
5-2A-2             130.02
5-2A-3             130.03
5-2A-4             130.04
5-2A-5             130.99
5-2B-1             131.01
5-2B-2             131.02
5-2B-3             131.03
5-2B-4             131.04
5-2B-5             131.05
5-2B-6             131.06
5-2B-7             131.07
5-2B-8             131.08
5-2B-9             131.09
5-2B-10            131.10
5-2B-11            131.11
5-2B-12            131.12
5-2B-13            131.13
5-2B-14            131.14
5-2B-15            131.15
5-2C-1             132.01
5-2C-2             132.02
5-2C-3             132.03
5-2C-4             132.04
5-2C-5             132.05
5-2D-1             133.01
5-2D-2             133.02;
                   133.99
5-2D-3             133.03
5-2D-4             133.04
5-2D-5             133.05
5-2D-6             133.06
5-2D-7             133.07
5-2D-8             133.08
5-2D-9             133.09
5-2D-10            133.10
5-2D-11            133.11
5-2D-12            133.12;
                   133.99
5-2D-13            136.01
5-2D-14            136.02;
                   136.99
5-2E-1             134.01
5-2E-2             134.02
5-2F-1             135.01
5-2F-2             135.02
5-2F-3             135.03
5-2F-4             135.04
5-2F-5             135.05
5-2F-6             135.06
5-2F-7             135.07
5-2F-8             135.08
5-2F-9             135.09
5-3-1              136.15
5-3-2              136.16
5-3-3              136.17
5-3-4              136.18
5-3-5              136.19
5-3-6              136.99
5-4-1              98.01
5-4-2              98.02
5-4-3              98.03
5-4-4              98.04
5-4-5              98.05
5-4-6              98.06
5-4-7              98.07
5-4-8              98.08
5-4-9              98.09
5-4-10             98.10
5-4-11             98.11
5-4-12             98.12
5-4-13             98.13
5-4-14             98.14
5-4-15             98.15
5-4-16             98.16
5-4-17             98.17
5-4-18             98.18
5-4-19             98.19
5-4-20             98.20;
                   98.99
5-4-21             98.21
5-4-22             98.22;
                   98.99
5-4-23             98.23
5-4-24             98.24
5-4-25             98.99
5-5-1              99.01
5-5-2              99.02
5-5-3              99.03
5-5-4              99.04
5-5-5              99.05
5-5-6              99.06
5-5-7              99.07
5-5-8              99.08
5-5-9              99.09
5-5-10             99.10;
                   99.99
5-5-11             99.11;
                   99.99
5-5-12             99.12;
                   99.99
5-5-13             99.13
5-5-14             99.14
5-5-15             99.15;
                   99.99
5-6-1              136.30;
                   136.99
6-1-1              70.01
6-1-2              70.02
6-1-3              70.03
6-1-4              70.04
6-2-1              70.25
6-2-2              70.26
6-2-3              70.27
6-2-4              70.28
6-2-5              70.05
6-2-6              70.06
6-2-7              70.07
6-2-8              70.08
6-2-9              70.09
6-2-10             70.10
6-2-11             70.29
6-2-12             70.30
6-2-13             70.31
6-2-14             70.32
6-2-15             70.33
6-2-16             70.11
6-2-17             70.34
6-2-18             70.99
6-3-1              71.01
6-3-2              71.02
6-3-3              71.03
6-3-4              71.04
6-3-5              71.05
6-3-6              71.06
6-3-7              71.07
6-3-8              71.08
6-3-9              71.09
6-3-10             71.10
6-3-11             71.11
6-3-12             71.12
6-3-13             71.13
6-3-14             71.14
6-3-15             71.15
6-3-16             71.16
6-3-17             71.17
6-3-18             71.18
6-3-19             71.19
6-3-20             71.20
6-3-21             71.21
6-3-22             71.22
6-3-23             71.23
6-3-24             71.24
6-3-25             71.25
6-3-26             71.26
6-3-27             71.27
6-3-28             71.28
6-3-29             71.29
6-3-30             71.30
6-3-31             71.31
6-3-32             71.32
6-3-33             71.33
6-3-34             71.34
6-3-35             71.35
6-3-36             71.36
6-3-37             71.37
6-3-38             71.38
6-3-39             71.39
6-3-40             71.40
6-4-1              72.01
6-4-2              72.02
6-4-3              72.03
6-4-4              72.04
6-4-5              72.05
6-4-6              72.06
6-4-7              72.07
6-4-8              72.08
6-4-9              72.09
6-4-10             72.10
6-4-11             72.11
6-4-12             72.12
6-4-13             72.13
6-5-1              71.55
6-5-2              71.56
6-5-3              71.57
6-5-4              71.58
6-5-5              71.59
6-5-6              71.60
6-5-7              71.61
6-5-8              71.62
6-5-9              71.63
6-6-1              73.01
6-6-2              73.02
6-6-3              73.03
6-6-4              73.04;
                   73.99
6-6-5              73.05
6-6-6              73.06
6-6-7              73.07
6-6-8              73.08
6-6-9              73.09
6-6-10             73.10
6-6-11             73.11
6-6-12             73.12
6-6-13             73.13
6-6-14             73.14
6-6-15             73.15
6-6-16             73.16
6-6-17             73.17
6-6-18             73.18
6-6-19             73.19
6-6-20             73.20
6-6-21             73.21
6-6-22             73.22
6-6-23             73.23
6-7-1              73.35
6-7-2              73.36
6-7-3              73.37
6-7-4              73.38
6-7-5              73.39
6-7-6              73.40
6-8-1              74.01
6-8-2              74.02
6-8-3              74.03
6-8-4              74.04
6-8-5              74.05
6-9-1              75.01
6-9-2              75.02
6-9-3              75.03
6-9-4              75.04
6-9-5              75.05
6-9-6              75.06
6-9-7              75.07
6-9-8              75.08
6-9-9              75.09
6-9-10             75.10
6-10-1             76.01
6-10-2             76.02
6-10-3             76.03
6-10-4             76.04
6-10-5             76.05
6-10-6             76.06
6-10-7             76.07
6-10-8             76.08
6-10-9             76.09
6-10-10            76.10
6-10-11            76.11
6-11-1             70.45
6-11-2             70.46
6-11-3             70.47
6-11-4             70.48
6-11-5             70.49
6-11-6             70.50
6-11-7             70.51
6-11-8             70.52
6-11-9             70.53
6-11-10            70.54
6-11-11            70.55
6-11-12            70.56
6-11-13            70.57
6-11-14            70.58
6-12-1             76.25
7-1-1              151.01
7-1-2              151.02
7-1-3              151.03
7-1-4              151.04
7-1-5              151.05
7-1-6              151.06
7-1-7              151.07
7-1-8              151.08
7-1-9              151.09
7-1-10             151.10
7-1-11             151.11
7-1-12             151.12
7-2-1              151.25
7-2-2              151.26
7-2-3              151.27
7-2-4              151.28
7-2-5              151.29
7-2-6              151.30
7-2-7              151.31
7-3-1              151.45
7-4-1              92.01
7-4-2              92.02
7-4-3              92.03
7-4-4              92.04
7-4-5              92.05
7-4-6              92.06
7-4-7              92.07
7-4-8              92.08
7-4-9              92.99
7-5-1              92.20
7-5-2              92.21;
                   92.99
7-5-3              92.22
7-5-4              92.23
7-5-5              92.24
7-5-6              92.25
7-5-7              92.26
7-5-8              92.27
7-5-9              92.28
7-5-10             92.29
7-5-11             92.30
7-5-12             92.31
7-5-13             92.32
7-5-14             92.33
7-5-15             92.34
7-5-16             92.35
7-6A-1             100.01
7-6A-2             100.02
7-6A-3             100.03
7-6A-4             100.04
7-6A-5             100.05
7-6A-6             100.06
7-6A-7             100.07
7-6A-8             100.08
7-6A-9             100.09
7-6A-10            100.10
7-6A-11            100.11
7-6A-12            100.12
7-6A-13            100.13
7-6A-14            100.14
7-6B-1             100.25
7-6B-2             100.26
7-6B-3             100.27
7-6B-4             100.28
7-6B-5             100.29
7-6B-6             100.30
7-6B-7             100.31
7-6B-8             100.32
7-6B-9             100.33
7-6B-10            100.34;
                   100.99
7-6B-11            100.35
7-6B-12            100.36
7-6B-13            100.37
7-6B-14            100.38
7-6B-15            100.39
7-6B-16            100.40
7-6B-17            100.41
7-6B-18            100.42
7-6B-19            100.99
7-7-1              152.01
7-7-2              152.02
7-7-3              152.03
7-7-4              152.04
7-7-5              152.05
7-7-6              152.06
7-7-7              152.07
7-7-8              152.08
7-7-9              152.09
7-7-10             152.10
7-7-11             152.11
7-7-12             152.99
7-8-1              151.60
7-8-2              151.61
7-8-3              151.62
7-8-4              151.63
8-1-1              50.01
8-1-2              50.02
8-1-3              50.03
8-1-4              50.04
8-2-1              51.01
8-2-2              51.02
8-2-3              51.03
8-2-4              51.04
8-2-5              51.05
8-2-6              51.06
8-2-7              51.07
8-2-8              51.08
8-2-9              51.09
8-2-10             51.10
8-2-11             51.11
8-2-12             51.12
8-2-13             51.13
8-2-14             51.14
8-2-15             51.15;
                   51.99
8-3-1              52.01
8-3-2              52.02
8-3-3              52.03
8-3-4              52.04
8-3-5              52.05
8-3-6              52.06
8-3-7              52.07
8-3-8              52.99
8-3-9              52.08
8-3-10             52.09
8-3-11             52.10;
                   52.99
8-4-1              53.01
8-4-2              53.02
8-4-3              53.03
8-4-4              53.04
8-4-5              53.05
8-4-6              53.06
8-4-7              53.07
8-4-8              53.08
8-4-9              53.09
8-5-1              54.01
8-5-2              54.02
8-5-3              54.03
8-6-1              55.01
8-6-2              55.02
8-7-1              56.01
8-7-2              56.02
8-7-3              56.03
8-7-4              56.04
8-7-5              56.05
9-1-1              150.001
9-1-2              150.002
9-1-3              150.003
9-1-4              150.004
9-1-5              150.005
9-1-6              150.006
9-1-7              150.007
9-1-8              150.008
9-1-9              150.009
9-1-10             150.010
9-1-11             150.999
9-2-1              150.025
9-2-2              150.026
9-2-3              150.027
9-2-4              150.028
9-2-5              150.029
9-2-6              150.030
9-2-7              150.031
9-2-8              150.032
9-2-9              150.999
9-3-1              150.045
9-3-2              150.046
9-3-3              150.047
9-3-4              150.048
9-3-5              150.049
9-3-6              150.050
9-3-7              150.051
9-3-8              150.052
9-3-9              150.053
9-3-10             150.999
9-4-1              150.065
9-4-2              150.066
9-4-3              150.067
9-4-4              150.999
9-5-1              150.080
9-5-2              150.081
9-5-3              150.082
9-5-4              150.083
9-5-5              150.084
9-5-6              150.085
9-5-7              150.086
9-5-8              150.087
9-5-9              150.999
9-6-1              150.100
9-6-2              150.101
9-6-3              150.999
9-7-1              150.115
9-7-2              150.116
9-7-3              150.117
9-7-4              150.118
9-7-5              150.119
9-7-6              150.120
9-7-7              150.121
9-7-8              150.122
9-7-9              150.123
9-7-10             150.124
9-7-11             150.125
9-7-12             150.999
9-8-1              150.140;
                   150.999
9-9-1              154.01
9-9-2              154.02
9-9-3              154.03
9-9-4              154.04
9-9-5              154.05
9-9-6              154.06
9-9-7              154.07
9-9-8              154.08
9-9-9              154.09
9-9-10             154.10
9-9-11             154.11
9-9-12             154.12
9-9-13             154.13
9-9-14             154.14
9-9-15             154.15
9-9-16             154.99
9-10-1             155.01
9-10-2             155.02
9-10-3             155.03
9-10-4             155.04
9-10-5             155.05
9-10-6             155.06
9-10-7             155.07
9-10-8             155.08
9-10-9             155.09
9-10-10            155.99
9-11-1             153.01
9-11-2             153.02
9-11-3             153.03
9-11-4             153.04
9-11-5             153.05
9-11-6             153.06
9-11-7             153.07
9-11-8             153.08
9-11-9             153.09
9-11-10            153.10
9-11-11            153.11
9-11-12            153.12
9-11-13            153.13
9-11-14            153.14
9-11-15            153.15
9-11-16            153.16
9-11-17            153.17
9-11-18            153.18
9-11-19            153.99
9-12-1             156.20
9-12-2             156.21
9-12-3             156.22
9-12-4             156.99
11-1-1             159.001
11-1-2             159.002
11-1-3             159.003
11-1-4             159.004
11-1-5             159.005
11-1-6             159.006
11-1-7             159.999
11-2-1             159.020
11-2-2             159.021
11-3-1             159.035
11-3-2             159.036
11-3-3             159.037
11-3-4             159.038
11-3-5             159.039
11-4-1             159.050
11-4-2             159.051
11-4-3             159.052
11-4-4             159.053
11-5-1             159.065
11-5-2             159.066
11-5-3             159.067
11-5-4             159.068
11-5-5             159.069
11-5-6             159.070
11-5-7             159.071
11-6-1             159.085
11-6-2             159.086
11-6-3             159.087
11-6-4             159.088
11-6-5             159.089
11-6-6             159.090
11-7-1             159.105
11-7-2             159.106
11-7-3             159.107
11-7-4             159.108
11-7-5             159.109
11-7-6             159.110
11-8-1             158.01
11-8-2             158.02
11-8-3             158.03
11-8-4             158.04
11-8-5             158.05
11-8-6             158.06
11-8-7             158.07
11-8-8             158.08
11-9-1             Ch. 159, App. A
11-9-2             Ch. 159, App. B
11-9-3             Ch. 159, App. C
12-1-1             156.01
12-1-2             156.02
12-1-3             156.03
12-1-4             156.04
12-1-5             156.05;
                   156.99
App. 3             Ch. 53, App. A
App. 4, § 1       32.100
App. 4, § 2       32.101
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed                Code Section
477      - -                        37.01
525      - -                        37.01
476      4-11-1967                  TSO I
543      6-21-1983                  37.01
553      6-18-1985                  37.01
554      6-18-1985                  116.01—
                                    116.17
557      5-20-1986                  100.35
558      11-18-1986                 95.15
560      6-2-1987                   70.11
562      6-6-1989, eff. 7-1-1989    53.01
                                    153.01—
563      12-4-1990                  153.18;
                                    153.99
569      2-2-1993                   100.30
568      4-19-1993                  31.20
573      8-3-1993                   92.33
577      6-7-1994                   92.21;
                                    92.99
578-B    7-5-1994                   52.03
                                    136.15—
579      9-20-1994, eff. 9-20-1994  136.19;
                                    136.99
                                    115.01;
580      11-1-1994, eff. 11-1-1994  115.02;
                                    115.99
583      9-19-1995                  33.25
584      1-16-1996                  36.20;
                                    36.21
588      11-19-1996                 151.63
589      11-19-1996                 151.63
590      2-18-1997                  10.99
591      5-20-1997                  100.29
                                    158.01—
                                    158.08;
                                    159.001—
                                    159.006;
                                    159.020;
                                    159.021;
                                    159.035—
                                    159.039;
                                    159.050—
594      8-5-1997                   159.052;
                                    159.065—
                                    159.071;
                                    159.085—
                                    159.090;
                                    159.105—
                                    159.110;
                                    159.999;
                                    Ch. 159, App. A;
                                    Ch. 159, App. B;
                                    Ch. 159, App. C
595      8-19-1997                  36.03;
                                    36.04
597      2-17-1998                  32.100
598      2-17-1998                  32.101
600      5-5-1998                   150.140;
                                    150.999
601      5-5-1998                   91.26
                                    94.01;
608      2-6-2001                   94.02;
                                    94.99
611      6-19-2001                  36.03;
                                    36.04
612      4-2-2002, eff. 6-1-2002    91.38;
                                    91.99
614      8-3-2004                   37.01
616      8-17-2004                  91.38;
                                    91.99
617      12-6-2004                  37.01
618      4-19-2005                  TSO I
619      7-19-2005                  37.01
620      3-21-2006                  91.06
625      7-18-2006                  38.19;
                                    38.99
621      11-7-2006                  57.01—
                                    57.16
623      6-5-2007                   100.34;
                                    100.99
                                    157.001—
                                    157.003;
                                    157.015—
                                    157.019;
                                    157.030—
                                    157.035;
                                    157.050—
                                    157.055;
                                    157.070—
                                    157.078;
                                    157.090—
                                    157.095;
                                    157.110—
624      12-18-2007                 157.114;
                                    157.125—
                                    157.130;
                                    157.145—
                                    157.152;
                                    157.165—
                                    157.170;
                                    157.185—
                                    157.191;
                                    157.205—
                                    157.211;
                                    157.225—
                                    157.230;
                                    157.245—
                                    157.249
726      1-15-2008                  32.001—
                                    32.010
728      6-3-2008                   154.06
731      10-21-2008, eff. 11-1-2008 76.25
732      10-21-2008                 136.30;
                                    136.99
733      6-16-2009                  38.17
734      11-3-2009                  154.09
                                    97.01—
735      11-3-2009                  97.04;
                                    97.99
                                    97.15—
737      11-17-2009                 97.17;
                                    97.99
740      6-1-2010                   100.33
741      7-20-2010                  136.16
743      5-3-2011                   133.02;
                                    133.99
745      7-19-2011                  159.006
746      3-20-2012                  133.12;
                                    133.99
747      5-1-2012                   91.31
744A     8-20-2013                  150.005
831      9-17-2013                  52.07
832      10-1-2013                  52.07
835      11-19-2013                 136.02
836      5-20-2014                  91.37;
                                    91.99
839      10-21-2014                 57.01
840      12-2-2014                  36.09
                                    98.01—
845      6-16-2015                  98.24;
                                    98.99
847      9-1-2015                   100.03
                                    52.08—
848      9-1-2015                   52.10;
                                    52.99
                                    37.15—
849      3-15-2016, eff. 6-15-2016  37.33;
                                    37.99
850      11-1-2016                  76.25
851      11-1-2016                  71.40
                                    150.001;
                                    150.002;
                                    150.026;
853      12-20-2016                 150.066;
                                    150.080;
                                    150.081;
                                    150.100;
                                    150.101
                                    156.01—
854      2-21-2017                  156.05;
                                    156.99
                                    99.01—
855      3-7-2017                   99.15;
                                    99.99
857      9-10-2017                  70.47
                                    97.16;
858      9-10-2017                  97.17;
                                    97.99
859      3-25-2018                  91.12—
                                    91.14
                                    37.45—
860      9-12-2018                  37.54;
                                    37.99
861      9-12-2018                  98.09
                                    111.01—
862      9-18-2018, eff. 10-1-2018  111.05,
                                    111.20;
                                    111.99
                                    119.001—
                                    119.003;
                                    119.015—
                                    119.020;
863      9-18-2018                  119.035—
                                    119.048;
                                    119.060—
                                    119.078;
                                    119.090—
                                    119.098
864      10-2-2018                  111.06
865      11-20-2018                 31.01
866      11-20-2018                 31.22
6-12-1   8-8-2020                   76.25
877      8-18-2020                  31.22
877A     12-7-2021                  34.02
878      1-21-2022                  150.001
879      1-21-2022                  150.080
880      1-21-2022                  150.100
881      1-21-2022                  150.025
882      8-16-2022                  30.01
883      7- -2023                   10.99
885      12-19-2023                 36.03
886      12-19-2023                 91.38
887      1-2-2024                   32.001
888      1-2-2024                   53.05
889      3-5-2024                   31.50—
                                    31.68
                                   
 
 
