CITY OF HOOKER, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025
 
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   WARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions and notes
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to statutes
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.20   Amendment to code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language
   
10.21   Altering code
   
10.22   Ordinances in effect in outlying territory of city
   
10.23   Certified copies of code
   
10.24   Sale of copies of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   General powers of municipalities, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.
   Municipal ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This code may be cited as the “Hooker City Code, 2019” or the “Hooker City
Code” or other properly identifying description. When a change or changes have
been prepared and inserted in the code as provided hereinbelow, the words “as
amended” may be added to the citation or title when referring to the code as
amended.
(1999 Code, § 10.01) (Ord. 58, passed 2-1-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108, 14-109
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(1999 Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(1999 Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code, for the convenience of persons
using the code, and shall have no legal effect.
(1999 Code, § 10.04) (Ord. 58, passed 2-1-1983)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, THIS CITY or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Hooker, Oklahoma.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Hooker.
      COUNTY. Texas County, Oklahoma.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the state constitution and
state statutes, the ordinances of the city, and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the city.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, such as, “Clerk”, “City
Clerk”, “City Attorney”, “Fire Chief”, “Chief of Police” and the like they
shall mean the officers, agencies or departments of the city.
      PERSON. Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates and
government agencies, except when a contrary intention plainly appears.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE or THIS STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the State of Oklahoma
as they now are or as they may be amended to be.
      STREET. To embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other public ways in
the city which are dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
   (C)   Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
(1999 Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   “And” or “or”. Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the city include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the city include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(1999 Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed by the Council after this
code goes into effect is invalid, all valid parts which are severable from the
invalid parts remain in effect. If a part of this code or of any ordinance
passed hereinafter is invalid in one or more of its applications, the part
remains in effect in all valid applications which are severable from the
invalid applications.
(1999 Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   Reference to the statutes of the state means the statutes as they are now or
as they may be amended to be, and a reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a
certain year also means the comparable provision when included in future
codifications.
(1999 Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(1999 Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(1999 Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected, and such
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
(1999 Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
(1999 Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(1999 Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed prior to and in effect at the time the code is adopted but not included
in the code are hereby repealed as of the time when the code goes into effect.
Ordinances passed on or after said date shall not be repealed or amended by the
adoption of the code.
(1999 Code, § 10.14) (Ord. 58, passed 2-1-1983)
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   The continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances and parts
of ordinances, although omitted from the code, shall not be affected by such
omission therefrom, and the adoption of the code shall not repeal or amend any
such ordinance or part of any such ordinance. Among the temporary and/or
special ordinances not repealed or amended by the adoption of the code are the
following: ordinances creating, opening, dedicating, vacating or closing
specific streets, alleys and other public ways; naming or changing the names of
specific streets and other public ways; establishing the grades of specific
streets and other public ways; authorizing or relating to specific issues of
bonds; creating or relating to specific sewer and paving districts and other
specific local improvement districts; making special assessments for local
improvements; annexing territory to or excluding territory from the city;
calling or providing for special election; approving or authorizing specific
contracts with the state or with others; authorizing a specific lease, sale or
purchase of property; granting rights-of-way or other rights and privileges to
specific railroad companies or others; granting a specific public utility or
any other person, firm or corporation the right or privilege of constructing
lines in the streets and alleys or of otherwise using the streets and alleys;
granting a franchise to a specific public utility, or regulating a specific
public utility; or amending the zoning map.
(1999 Code, § 10.15) (Ord. 58, passed 2-1-1983)
§ 10.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(1999 Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(1999 Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case all such ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to
the code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of such
ordinances and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in
the code whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance of
the City Council, as provided hereinafter.
(1999 Code, § 10.18) (Ord. 58, passed 2-1-1983)
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 1-402) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
   or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
(1999 Code, § 10.19)
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1999 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1999 Code, §
     ).”
§ 10.20 AMENDMENT TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code of ordinances may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or division or
any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language: “Be it ordained by the Mayor and City
Council of the City of Hooker, Oklahoma, that section _______ of the code of
ordinances of the City of Hooker, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as
follows: (set out new provisions in full).”
   (C)   When the Council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which the
Council desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the
following language may be made part of the ordinance:
      “Section _______ Be it ordained by the Mayor and City Council of the City
of Hooker, Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be
made a part of the code of ordinances of the City of Hooker, Oklahoma, and the
sections of this ordinance may be re-numbered to accomplish this intention.”
   (D)   All sections, chapters or provisions of this code desired to be
repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case
may be.
   (E)   (1)   By contract or by city personnel, a change or supplement to this
code of ordinances shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or
directed by the City Council. A change to the code shall include all
substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the City
Council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by
the change and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a change
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and
the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code
will be up-to-date to the date to which the code is being brought up-to-date.
      (2)   (a)   When preparing a change, the codifier (meaning the person,
agency or organization authorized to prepare the change) may make formal,
nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the
change, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code.
For example, the codifier may:
            1.   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
            2.   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for
sections and other divisions of the code printed in the change, and may make
changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
            3.   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to
be inserted in the code;
            4.   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning
to “this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _______ to _______” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
            5.   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code.
         (b)   However, in no case shall the codifier make any change in the
meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the change or already
embodied in the code.
      (3)   Each change shall include a new title page for the code, and the
title page shall include a notation below the title indicating that the code
contains all permanent and general ordinances and parts of ordinances passed
prior to the date to which the code is brought up-to-date and still in effect.
      (4)   With prior approval of the City Attorney or City Council, a change
may include new materials in appendices to the code for convenience of persons
using the code.
      (5)   Every change shall include an index supplement if needed to index
the materials in the change or changes, or a new index to the code.
      (6)   In preparing every change, the codifier shall be subject to the
direction and supervision of the City Attorney of the city.
      (7)   After every change has been prepared and printed, a number of
copies of the change equal at least to the number of copies of the code still
in existence shall be deposited in the office of the City Clerk. The City Clerk
shall furnish one copy of every change to each holder of a copy of the code
without charge, either on request by the holder or by sending the change to the
holder by mail or otherwise. Immediately after receiving the copies of a
change, the City Clerk shall cause the change to be properly inserted and made
in all copies of the code still in his or her possession.
(1999 Code, § 10.20) (Ord. 58, passed 2-1-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108, 14-109
   Enactment of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-104 through 14-106
§ 10.21 ALTERING CODE.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall later change or amend this code of
ordinances except in the manner prescribed by this code, or who shall alter or
tamper with the code in any manner so as to cause the ordinances of the city to
be misrepresented thereby, is guilty of an offense against the city, and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.
(1999 Code, § 10.21) (Ord. 58, passed 2-1-1983; Ord. passed 7-9-2019)
§ 10.22 ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF CITY.
   All ordinances of the city, now in effect within the city, are hereby
extended to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city
outside the corporate limits of the city, and shall be in full effect therein,
insofar as they are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into
effect in the future shall also apply to, and be in full effect within, the
boundaries of all said outlying real property, insofar as they may be
applicable. Any words in any ordinance indicating that the effect of an
ordinance provision is limited to the corporate limits of the city shall be
deemed to mean and include also said outlying real property belonging to, or
under the control of, the city, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(1999 Code, § 10.22)
§ 10.23 CERTIFIED COPIES OF CODE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall carefully examine at least one copy of this code
to see that it is a true and correct copy of the code. Similarly, after each
change or supplement has been prepared, printed and inserted in the code, the
City Clerk shall carefully examine at least one copy of the code as amended to
see that it is a true and correct copy of the code as amended. The City Clerk
shall then insert a certificate in the front of the said true and correct copy
or copies of the code certifying substantially that the copy is a true and
correct copy of the code of ordinances of the city including all permanent and
general ordinances passed or adopted prior to the date to which the code has
been brought up-to-date and still in effect as of that date.
   (B)   A copy of the code as originally adopted or amended and certified
shall constitute the permanent and general ordinances of the city as of the
date indicated in the certificate, and shall be so accepted by the courts of
law, administrative tribunals and others concerned.
   (C)   One copy of the code so certified shall be kept in the office of the
City Clerk at all times, and may be inspected by any interested person at any
time during regular office hours but may not be removed from the City Clerk’s
office or possession except upon proper order of a court of law.
(1999 Code, § 10.23) (Ord. 58, passed 2-1-1983)
§ 10.24 SALE OF COPIES OF CODE.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to sell copies of the code
of ordinances to the public at a price to be determined from time to time by
motion or resolution of the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 10.24) (Ord. 58, passed 2-1-1983)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or an
ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding $500, excluding costs. Each day or
any portion of a day during which any violation of this code or of any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in this section.
   (C)   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of
competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
(1999 Code, § 10.99) (Ord. passed 7-9-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Aiding and abetting, see §
130.16
   Judgment; imprisonment in addition to fine, see §
35.074
Statutory reference:
   Fines over $500 to be set by jury trial, see 11 O.S. § 27-119
   Maximum fine levied in courts not of record $500, see 11 O.S. § 14-111
CHAPTER 11: WARDS
Section
   
11.01   Adoption by reference
§ 11.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Descriptions of the wards of the city are hereby adopted by reference
into this code of ordinances as if set forth fully herein. There are four wards
in the city. Each ward has due regard to equitable apportionment of the
population with convenience and contiguity of the wards.
   (B)   These descriptions shall be kept on file and be available for public
inspection at reasonable hours in the office of the City Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 11.01)
Statutory reference:
   Wards to be reviewed every ten years, see 11 O.S. § 20-101
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICERS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
36.   FINANCE AND BUSINESS
      
37.   TAXATION
      
38.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
39.   ELECTIONS
      
40.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
41.   CITY POLICY
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Compensation
   
30.03   Mayor
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Time of regular meetings of the Council. The Council shall hold a
regular meeting at 6:30 p.m. for the municipal authority and the City Council
meetings on every first Thursday of every month; provided that if such Thursday
falls on a holiday, the regular meeting shall be held at that time on the
following Tuesday.
   (B)   Place of meetings of the Council. Every meeting of the Council shall
be held in the Council Chamber in the City Hall unless, in case of an
emergency, the Mayor, when calling a special meeting, designates another place
in the city for the holding of the special meeting, provided that any adjourned
meeting may be held at any other place within the city designated by the
Council.
(1999 Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 86, passed 6-3-1991; Ord. 2014-3, passed 11-3-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Regular and special meetings of the Council, see 11 O.S. §§ 9-109, 9-110
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Council members. The pay period for the City Council members of Wards
I, II, III and IV shall be monthly. Each City Council member shall be paid each
pay period in an amount to be set from time to time by ordinance contingent
upon the City Council members’ performance of their legal duties as City
Council members. Any increase or decrease in the City Council members’ salaries
shall not go into effect until the beginning of their next term of office.
   (B)   Mayor. The pay period for the Mayor shall be monthly. The Mayor shall
be paid each pay period in an amount to be set from time to time by ordinance
contingent upon the Mayor’s performance of his or her legal duties as Mayor.
Any increase or decrease in the Mayor’s salary shall not go into effect until
the beginning of his or her next term of office.
(1999 Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 113, passed 1-6-1997; Ord. 2014-4, passed 12-4-2014;
Ord. 2017-2, passed 1-12-2017)
§ 30.03 MAYOR.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The Mayor shall have all the powers and duties
prescribed by 11 O.S. § 9-105, any other state law, and as may be prescribed by
ordinance.
   (B)   Roles of City Marshal and Street Commissioner. Pursuant to 11 O.S. §
9-115, the Council hereby declares that it is necessary and convenient that the
offices of City Marshal and Street Commissioner be combined with the office of
Mayor, and the Mayor shall be ex officio City Marshal and also ex officio
Street Commissioner.
(1999 Code, § 30.03)
Cross-reference:
   Street Commissioner, see §
31.05
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICERS
Section
   
31.01   City Attorney
   
31.02   City Clerk
   
31.03   City Administrator
   
31.04   City Treasurer
   
31.05   Street Commissioner
§ 31.01 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, shall appoint a City
Attorney, as provided by 11 O.S. § 9-105, and the City Attorney may be removed
as provided in 11 O.S. § 9-105.
   (B)   The City Attorney is the chief legal adviser of the Mayor, Council and
all other officers, departments and agencies of the city government in matters
relating to their official powers and duties. He or she represents the city in
proceedings in the courts, and performs all services incident to his or her
position which may be required by law or ordinance.
(1999 Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The pay period for the City Clerk shall be monthly. The Clerk shall be
paid each pay period in an amount to be set from time to time by ordinance
contingent upon the Clerk’s performance of the Clerk’s legal duties of the
office. Any increase or decrease in the Clerk’s salary for legal duties shall
not go into effect until the next term of office.
   (B)   The person who serves as City Clerk may also perform additional
administrative duties not specified by state law as an employee of the city.
Said additional duties shall be performed by the City Clerk or as otherwise
provided by motion or other action of the Council. The person performing
additional administrative duties shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and
shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Council. The pay period
for performing the additional administrative duties shall be the same as for
other municipal employees and the Clerk shall be paid each pay period an amount
per hour in accordance with any personnel policy or other policy of the city.
The salary for performing the additional administrative duties shall not be
subject to constitutional restrictions.
(1999 Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 82, passed 1-7-1991; Ord. 83, passed 1-10-1991; Ord.
2014-5, passed 12-4-2014; Ord. passed 1-3-2019)
§ 31.03 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Creation; office. The office of City Administrator is hereby created.
   (B)   Appointment; City Administrator.
      (1)   The City Administrator shall be appointed by majority vote of the
City Council for an indefinite term.
      (2)   The candidate shall be chosen by the Council solely on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to actual
experience in or knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of the
office hereinafter set forth.
      (3)   At the time of appointment, the candidate need not be a resident of
the city or the state, but during the tenure of office shall reside within the
city.
      (4)   No Council member or elected official shall receive such
appointment during the term for which they shall have been elected, nor within
two years after the expiration of the term.
   (C)   Removal of City Administrator. The City Council may remove the City
Administrator at any time by a majority vote of its members. If requested, the
City Council shall grant a public hearing within 30 days following notice of
removal. During the interim, the City Council may suspend the Administrator
from duty, but shall continue the salary until the City Council votes, and, if
the removal becomes final, all salary ends immediately.
   (D)   Powers and duties; City Administrator. The City Administrator shall be
the chief administrative officer of the city. The Administrator may head one or
more departments and shall be responsible to the City Council and Mayor for
proper administration of all affairs of the city and, to that end, shall have
power and shall be required to:
      (1)   Recommend appointments and, when necessary for the good of the
service, recommend suspension or removal of all officers and employees of the
city except as otherwise provided by law;
      (2)   Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the City Council and
Mayor together, with a message describing the important features and be
responsible for its administration after adoption;
      (3)   Prepare and submit to the City Council and Mayor as of the end of
the fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities
of the city for the preceding year;
      (4)   Keep the City Council and Mayor advised of the financial condition
and future needs of the city, and make such recommendations as deemed
desirable;
      (5)   Recommend to the governing body a standard schedule of pay for each
appointive office and position in the city service, including minimum,
intermediate and maximum rates;
      (6)   Recommend to the governing body, from time to time, adoption of
such measurers as
deemed necessary or expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the
community or for the improvement of administrative services;
      (7)   Attend all meetings of the City Council unless excused there from
and take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Council;
      (8)   Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies and equipment for
which funds are provided for in the budget. The Administrator may issue such
rules governing purchasing procedures within the administrative organization as
the City Council and Mayor shall approve;
      (9)   See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced;
      (10)   Investigate the affairs of the city or any department or division
thereof, investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the city, and in regard to service
maintained by the public utilities in the city, and see that all franchises,
permits and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed; and
      (11)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the City Council
and Mayor, not inconsistent with the city ordinances and law.
   (E)   Compensation. The City Administrator shall receive such compensation
as the City Council shall fix from time to time by ordinance or resolution.
   (F)   Vacancy. The City Council may desire not to fill any vacancies at any
time and may do so for any length of period of time or for any reason.
(1999 Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 2007-7, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 31.04 CITY TREASURER.
   The pay period for the City Treasurer shall be monthly. The City Treasurer
shall be paid each pay period in an amount to be set from time to time by
ordinance contingent upon the City Treasurer’s performance of his or her legal
duties of the office of City Treasurer. Any increase or decrease in the City
Treasurer’s salary shall not go into effect until the beginning of the next
term of office.
(1999 Code, § 31.04) (Ord. 93, passed 1-4-1993; Ord. 112, passed 12-2-1996;
Ord. passed 1-6-2000; Ord. passed 12-4-2006; Ord. passed 2-8-2012; Ord. 2017-1,
passed 1-12-2017)
§ 31.05 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be ex officio Street Commissioner. The Mayor, with
approval of the Council, may appoint such employees as he or she deems
necessary, which may include a street foreperson or superintendent.
   (B)   The Street Commissioner and employees as provided above shall maintain
and improve the
streets of the city, and shall place, maintain and remove street signs and
traffic signs and devices as directed.
(1999 Code, § 31.05)
Cross-reference:
   Mayor as Street Commissioner, see §
30.03
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 97
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Health Department
   
32.01   Delegation of duties to county
Planning Commission
   
32.15   Establishment; membership
   
32.16   Officers and employees, meetings and the like
   
32.17   Powers and duties
   
32.18   Zoning Commission designation
HEALTH DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 DELEGATION OF DUTIES TO COUNTY.
   The Cooperative Health Department of the county and its directors shall have
the powers of a city health department and City Health Officer respectively for
this city. References to Health Department and Health Officer or Director of
the Health Department in this code and in other ordinances of the city shall be
deemed to mean the Cooperative Health Department and its directors unless the
context clearly indicates another meaning.
(1999 Code, § 32.01)
Statutory reference:
   Cooperative health departments, see 63 O.S. §§ 1-202 et seq.
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.15 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   A City Planning Commission is hereby created for this city, effective when
all of the members have been appointed as herein provided. It shall consist of
five appointed members, all of whom shall be electors of the city, and the
Mayor and City Engineer as ex officio members. The members shall be nominated
by the Mayor and appointed by the Council and shall serve for terms of three
years, the terms to end at 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday in the next May after
appointment; two shall serve until 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday in May a year
later; and two shall serve until 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday in May two years
later. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The members shall
serve without compensation. The Mayor and Council may remove members of the
City Planning Commission for cause.
(1999 Code, § 32.10)
§ 32.16 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES, MEETINGS AND THE LIKE.
   The City Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson
and a Secretary, who shall serve until 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday of the
next May after their election. The Secretary need not be a member of the
Commission. The Commission shall determine the time and place of its regular
meetings, and the Chairperson, the Mayor or any three members may call special
meetings of the Commission. The Commission may employ engineers, attorneys,
clerks and other help deemed necessary, subject to the approval of the Council.
Their salaries and compensation shall be fixed by the Council, and shall be
paid out of the city treasury as other salaries and compensation are paid. The
necessary legal expenses shall be paid out of the city treasury as other legal
expenses of the city government are paid.
(1999 Code, § 32.11)
§ 32.17 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties prescribed
for it by 11 O.S. §§ 45-101 through 45-104, and all other powers and duties now
or hereafter prescribed for it by any other provision of state law.
(1999 Code, § 32.12)
§ 32.18 ZONING COMMISSION DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The City Planning Commission is hereby appointed the Zoning Commission
of the city, and the City Planning Commission shall have the powers of a Zoning
Commission as provided by state law. Whether exercising the powers of a
Planning Commission or the powers of a Zoning Commission, it shall be legally
one board known as the City Planning Commission.
   (B)   Exercising the powers of a Zoning Commission, the City Planning
Commission shall recommend the boundaries of the various zones and appropriate
zoning regulations to be enforced therein. It shall have all the powers
conferred upon a zoning commission by 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 through 43-109 and all
powers which now or in the future may be granted by applicable state law to
such authorities.
(1999 Code, § 32.13)
CHAPTER 33: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Fire Department
   
33.01   Composition; membership
   
33.02   Officers
   
33.03   Bylaws
   
33.04   Service area
Firefighters Pension and Retirement System
   
33.15   Operation of system
   
33.16   Deductions from salaries; deposit of funds
Rates
   
33.30   Rates for Fire Department response units
   
33.31   Rates for emergency medical services
Cross-reference:
False fire alarms, see §
134.06
Fire prevention, see
Chapter 93
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 COMPOSITION; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department of the city is a volunteer fire department which
has in its employ not more than two full-time salaried firefighters and shall
be comprised of not less than 12 nor more than 20 volunteer firefighters.
   (B)   A volunteer firefighter shall be considered as one who is enrolled as
a member of the Fire Department and who serves in said capacity without
receiving a regular salary.
   (C)   (1)   All new members shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment.
      (2)   New volunteer members upon completion of their probation period
must be approved by the majority of the Fire Department.
(1999 Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Fire Chief.
      (1)   The Chief shall be at the head of the Department, subject to the
laws of the state, ordinances of this city and the rules and regulations herein
adopted.
      (2)   The Chief shall be held responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the Department, the training of members and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him or her.
      (3)   The Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
Department the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year.
      (4)   The Chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members.
      (5)   The Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct
the officers and members in the performance of their duties.
      (6)   The Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the Department.
      (7)   The Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause and, in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify
proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use
in the case.
   (B)   Assistant Chief. In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on
duty shall command the Department and be held responsible therefor in all
respects with the full powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
   (C)   Company officers. The company officers shall be selected upon their
ability to meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Knowledge of firefighting;
      (2)   Ability to lead men and women; and
      (3)   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
   (D)   Secretary-Treasurer. One member elected by the Fire Department shall
be Secretary-Treasurer. His or her duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      (3)   Collecting any money due the Department by the members.
(1999 Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the Department shall include the following.
   (A)   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   The Chief is required to be present at all regular meetings, call
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   (C)   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
   (D)   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in succession
or three unexcused absences in a period of three months will be dropped from
the Fire Department rolls.
   (E)   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an extended period of time
will be required to notify the Chief.
   (F)   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him or her will be dropped.
   (G)   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be dropped from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming to a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; and
      (5)   Conviction of a felony.
(1999 Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 SERVICE AREA.
   The Fire Department of the city is hereby authorized to provide fire
coverage and answer fire calls within an area five miles in all directions from
the outer boundaries of the city as the capability exists.
(1999 Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 68, passed 3-4-1985)
FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM
§ 33.15 OPERATION OF SYSTEM.
   The Firefighters Pension and Retirement System shall be operated in
accordance with state law relating to said system and pensions and other
benefits shall be paid as provided by state law.
(1999 Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.16 DEDUCTIONS FROM SALARIES; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)    Volunteer municipal contributions shall be reevaluated by the next
scheduled actuarial study and the amounts adjusted so that in a nine-year
period of time the amounts would reflect the actuarial recommendations at that
time, the city having volunteer members of the Fire Department shall deposit
yearly with the State Board an amount determined by the City Council for each
volunteer member of the Department.
   (B)   Any municipality that fails to comply with the provisions of this
section shall not be entitled to its proportionate share of the Motor Fuel
Excise Tax which is received through the State Tax Commission; provided;
however, that any municipality that has heretofore exceeded the amount of
contributions required by this section is authorized to continue making such
contribution and provided, further, that any municipality is authorized by
ordinance or Charter provision to exceed the amount of contribution required by
this section.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall supersede any City Charter
provision in direct conflict with this section.
(1999 Code, § 33.17) (Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025)
RATES
§ 33.30 RATES FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT RESPONSE UNITS.
   For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance and use of the City
Fire Department trucks and emergency response units, there is hereby
established a schedule of fees and charges for the use of the Fire Department
equipment:
   (A)   For the first truck that responds to a fire or other emergency a fee
of $400 will be charged, outside of the area whereas the Fire Department would
otherwise not charge;
   (B)   Each additional truck responding to a fire or other emergency a fee of
$250 will be charged, along with the first outside the area whereas the Fire
Department would otherwise not charge; and
   (C)   A charge for each volunteer firefighter will be charged at $0.65 per
minute or $39 per hour for each hour after the first hour of volunteer service
outside the area whereas the Fire Department would otherwise not charge.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 10-6-2016; Ord. 2019-7, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 33.31 RATES FOR EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   For the purpose of providing funds to provide service, personnel,
maintenance and use of the city ambulance emergency response and personnel,
there is hereby established a schedule of fees and charges for the use of EMTs
and city ambulances.
   (A)   For emergency response by ambulance and personnel, the base rate for
all in-town (City of Hooker) responses will be $500; and
   (B)   For all out-of-town or response to residents in the county by the city
emergency medical services the base rate will be $750.
   (C)   For emergency response by ambulance and personnel, the base rate will
be $20 per loaded mile.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-11-2014; Ord. 2020-4, passed 6-4-2020)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Training fund
Unclaimed Property
   
34.15   Record of property received
   
34.16   Disposition of unclaimed property
   
34.17   Finders of lost goods
   
34.18   Recovery by owner
Cross-reference:
Finance and Business, see
Chapter 36
Fire Department, see
Chapter 33
Municipal Court, see
Chapter 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   Effective upon adoption of this provision, a law enforcement officers
training fund shall be created for the purpose of reimbursing the State Law
Enforcement Officers Training Fund for certain training received by city law
enforcement officials.
   (B)   For every fine collected by the Municipal Criminal Court of the city,
an amount, as shall be determined from time to time by the City Council, shall
be set aside for the Law Enforcement Officers Training Fund, the Municipal
Juvenile Fund and any other fund so designated by the City Council.
   (C)   A fee for the late payment of all citations shall be charged in an
amount to be determined from time to time by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 64, passed 10-3-1983)
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 34.15 RECORD OF PROPERTY RECEIVED.
   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police officer,
which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the possession
of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto, shall by the
officer securing possession thereof be delivered into the charge of the Chief
of Police. The Chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose,
make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was
taken and the place where it was found, and the record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, the name and address of
the purchaser and the amount for which it was sold.
(1999 Code, § 34.15)
§ 34.16 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which remains in the
possession of the Chief of Police unclaimed, or the ownership of which is not
to him or her satisfactorily established, for a period of 30 days shall be
sold, and the proceeds of the sale shall be paid over to the City Clerk, who
shall issue his or her receipt therefor and deposit the same to the credit of
the General Fund of the city, except such personal property as in the opinion
of the Mayor can be more advantageously used by some department or office of
the city government. Ten days before a sale of such unclaimed property, the
Chief of Police shall sign and have posted in a conspicuous place in the City
Clerk’s office where it will be plainly visible to persons who visit that
office notice of the time, place and manner of such sale and a general
description of the property to be sold, provided, that, if in the opinion of
the Mayor all or any portion of the personal property may be more
advantageously used in any city department or office, he or she shall so
instruct the Chief of Police in writing, and the Chief shall thereupon deliver
the personal property designated to that department or office of city
government and make a permanent record of its disposition.
(1999 Code, § 34.16)
Statutory reference:
   Disposal of liquor and gambling equipment seized by police, see 22 O.S. §§
1261 et seq.
   Disposal of stolen or embezzled property coming into hands of police, see 22
O.S. §§ 1321 et seq.
§ 34.17 FINDERS OF LOST GOODS.
   Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or
employee which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if not
claimed or identified within 30 days, shall within ten additional days
thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him or her, and a record
of such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request return of the
property to him or her within such additional ten days, then the Chief of
Police shall sell the property as if it had been found by a public official or
employee or on instruction by the Mayor deliver it to some department or office
of the city government for its use.
(1999 Code, § 34.17)
Statutory reference:
   Finders of lost goods, see 15 O.S. §§ 511 et seq.
§ 34.18 RECOVERY BY OWNER.
   If any property is sold as herein provided and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor must
be approved by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 34.18)
CHAPTER 35: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
35.001   Purpose; conflicts
   
35.002   Definitions
   
35.003   Jurisdiction
Judiciary
   
35.015   Judge; term of office
   
35.016   Alternate Judge
   
35.017   Acting Judge
   
35.018   Appointment
   
35.019   Compensation
   
35.020   Removal from office
   
35.021   Vacancies
   
35.022   Recusal and disqualification
Administration and Enforcement
   
35.035   Chief of Police
   
35.036   Clerk of Court; bond
   
35.037   Prosecutor
   
35.038   Rules of court
   
35.039   Contempt of court and the like
Violation Procedure
   
35.050   Prosecution for ordinance violations
   
35.051   Traffic violations
   
35.052   Summons
   
35.053   Warrant for arrest
   
35.054   Arraignment
Trials and Judgment
   
35.070   Postponement of trial
   
35.071   Defendant to be present
   
35.072   Procedure
   
35.073   Witnesses
   
35.074   Judgment
   
35.075   Costs
   
35.076   Imprisonment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.001 PURPOSE; CONFLICTS.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Court of the city, as put into operation by resolution duly passed on October
6, 1969, and filed in accordance with law, as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 27-101
and 27-102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter
and the provisions of any other ordinance of this city, the provisions of this
chapter shall control. Said Court shall be operative on and after November 13,
1969.
(1999 Code, § 35.01)
§ 35.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
   CLERK. The Clerk of this municipality, including any deputy or member of the
office staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of this city.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Council.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court aforesaid, including any Acting
Judge or Alternate Judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state
and this chapter.
   MUNICIPALITY or THIS MUNICIPALITY. The City of Hooker, Oklahoma.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The District Court Judicial District of the State of
Oklahoma, wherein the government of this municipality is situated.
(1999 Code, § 35.02)
§ 35.003 JURISDICTION.
   The Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the Court in accordance
with applicable law.
(11 O.S. § 27-103) (1999 Code, § 35.03)
JUDICIARY
§ 35.015 JUDGE; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   There shall be one Judge of the Court. A Judge need not be a licensed
attorney at law, but, if not, he or she must be a resident of this
municipality, of the age of 21 years or upwards, and possessed of good moral
character. A Judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law
in other courts, but he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent with
his or her duties as Judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are
connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the Court, pending therein or
which might become the subject of proceedings therein.
   (B)   The official term of the Judge shall be two years beginning the first
day in July of every odd-numbered year. Each Judge, unless sooner removed for
proper cause, shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified, provided that the Judge of the Municipal Court existing in this
municipality at the effective date of this chapter shall act as Judge of the
Court herein provided for until a Judge is appointed and qualified under the
terms of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 35.15)
§ 35.016 ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   There shall be appointed for each Judge of the Court an Alternate
Judge, possessed of the same qualifications as the Judge.
   (B)   His or her appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same
manner as the Judge.
   (C)   He or she shall sit as Acting Judge of the Court in any case if the
Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court;
      (2)   Unable to act as Judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as Judge in the case.
(1999 Code, § 35.16)
§ 35.017 ACTING JUDGE.
   If at any time there is no Judge or Alternate Judge duly appointed and
qualified available to sit as Judge, the Mayor shall appoint some person
possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the Judge, who shall
preside as Acting Judge over the Court in the disposition of pending matters
until such time as a Judge or Alternate Judge shall be available.
(1999 Code, § 35.17)
§ 35.018 APPOINTMENT.
   Judges and Alternate Judges shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent
of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to
the governing body at the next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to
the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon
at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The governing body may decide upon the
proposed appointment by a majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure
of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a
later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body unless the Mayor, in
writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
(1999 Code, § 35.18)
§ 35.019 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   A Judge, other than an Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge, shall
receive a salary in an amount to be set from time to time by ordinance, paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of this municipality.
   (B)   An Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge shall be paid in an amount to be
set from time to time by ordinance for each day devoted to the performance of
his or her duties, except that for any month the total payments so calculated
shall not exceed the salary of the Judge in whose stead he or she sits. An
Alternate or Acting Judge who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount
specified as the salary of the Judge in whose stead he or she sits.
(1999 Code, § 35.19) (Ord. 51, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 35.020 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   (1)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing
body for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of this state for
the removal of public officers.
      (2)   Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the filing of a
verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to constitute one or
more legal grounds for removal.
      (3)   Petitions may be signed and filed by:
         (a)   The Mayor; or
         (b)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of this municipality; in
the latter event, verification may be executed by one or more of the
petitioners.
      (4)   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter, and
shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the Judge at least ten days before the hearing.
   (B)   At the hearing, the Judge shall be entitled:
      (1)   To representation by counsel;
      (2)   To present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against him
or her; and
      (3)   To have all evidence against him or her presented in open hearing.
   (C)   So far as they can be made applicable, the provisions of the State
Administrative Procedure Act governing individual proceedings (75 O.S. §§ 250
et seq., and any amendments or additions thereto in effect at the time of the
hearing) shall govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of removal shall
be entered only upon individual votes by a majority of all members of the
governing body in favor of such removal.
(1999 Code, § 35.20)
§ 35.021 VACANCIES.
   (A)   A vacancy in the office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      (1)   Dies;
      (2)   Resigns; or
      (3)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office, of finally in
judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of the Judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term, upon the same
procedure as an original appointment is made.
(1999 Code, § 35.21)
§ 35.022 RECUSAL AND DISQUALIFICATION.
   In prosecutions before the Court, no change of venue shall be allowed, but
the Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his or her
disqualification, or he or she may be disqualified from sitting under the
terms, conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record. If a
Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an Alternate or Acting
Judge appointed as provided in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 35.22)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 35.035 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All writs or processes of the Court shall be directed, in his or her
official title, to the Chief of Police of this municipality, who shall be the
principal officer of the Court.
(1999 Code, § 35.35)
§ 35.036 CLERK OF COURT; BOND.
   (A)   The Clerk, or a deputy designated by the Clerk, shall be the Clerk of
the Court. The Clerk shall assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of the
Court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. The Clerk shall
administer oaths required in proceedings before the Court. The Clerk shall
enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the Court. The
Clerk shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the Court as the Judge shall direct. The Clerk shall receive and receipt for
forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of money payable to the Court. The Clerk
shall pay to the Treasurer of this municipality, on the first and the fifteenth
day of each month, all money so received by him or her, except such special
deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by him or her for special
purposes. All money paid to the Treasurer shall be placed in the General Fund
of the municipality, or in such other fund as the governing body may direct,
and it shall be used in the operation of the municipal government in accordance
with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Court shall give bond in the form provided by 11 O.S.
§ 27-111. When executed, said bond shall be submitted to the governing body for
approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk of this municipality
and retained in the municipal archives. When the Clerk of the municipality acts
as Clerk of the Court, no additional bond shall be required.
(1999 Code, § 35.36)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Clerk of Court, see 11 O.S. § 27-109
§ 35.037 PROSECUTOR.
   The Attorney for this municipality, or his or her duly designated assistant,
shall be the prosecuting officer of the Court. He or she shall prosecute all
alleged violations of the ordinances of the city. He or she shall be
authorized, in his or her discretion, to prosecute and resist appeals,
proceedings in error and review from this Court to any other courts of the
state, and to represent this municipality in all proceedings arising out of
matters before this Court.
(1999 Code, § 35.37)
§ 35.038 RULES OF COURT.
   The Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and
with the ordinances of this municipality, for the proper conduct of the
business of the Court.
(1999 Code, § 35.38)
§ 35.039 CONTEMPT OF COURT AND THE LIKE.
   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the Judge or by the
Court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed as to him or her while holding court, or committed against process
issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the same extent as the District
Courts of this state.
(1999 Code, § 35.39)
VIOLATION PROCEDURE
§ 35.050 PROSECUTION FOR ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   All prosecutions for violation of ordinances of this municipality shall be
styled “The City of Hooker v. (naming defendant or defendants)”. Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a
written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and
setting forth concisely the offense charged.
(1999 Code, § 35.50)
§ 35.051 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Citation procedure.
      (1)   Residents. If a police officer observes facts which the police
officer believes constitute a violation of the traffic ordinances of this
municipality, committed by a resident thereof, in lieu of arresting such
person, the police officer may take his or her name, address, operator’s
license number, the registered license number of the motor vehicle involved,
and any other pertinent and necessary information, and may issue to him or her,
in writing, in a form prescribed by the Mayor or the Mayor’s duly designated
delegate, a traffic citation embracing the above information, and further
stating the traffic violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him or
her to answer to the charge against him or her in the Court at a time, not
later than seven days thereafter, specified in the citation. The officer, upon
receiving the written promise of the alleged violator endorsed on the citation
to answer as specified, shall release said person from custody. If the person
to whom a citation is issued fails to answer as prescribed in the citation, a
complaint shall be filed and the case shall be prosecuted as otherwise provided
in this chapter.
      (2)   Parking violations. If the alleged offense is a violation of an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator is not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in division (A)(1) above, with such variation as the circumstances
require. The operator of the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to
respond to the citation as if it had been issued to him or her personally under
division (A)(1) above.
   (B)   Violations Bureau established.
      (1)   A Violations Bureau hereby is established as a division of the
office of the Clerk of the Court, to be administered by the Clerk, or by
subordinates designated by the Clerk for that purpose. The city hereby adopts a
schedule of bonds and fines for violations of ordinances of the city as set by
the City Council. The bond schedule reflects the minimum fine with the maximum
fine not to exceed $200, plus costs.
      (2)   The Court may adopt rules to carry into effect this section.
Payment of a fine under this section shall constitute a final determination of
the cause against the defendant, if a defendant who has elected to pay a fine
under the provisions of this division (B).
      (3)   The schedule of bonds and fines for violations of ordinances of the
city are as follows:
Bond Schedule
Effective January 2024
Vehicle Laws
State Statute City Code Offense Fine Amount
Bond Schedule
Effective January 2024
Vehicle Laws
State Statute        City Code Offense                              Fine Amount
47 O.S. § 11-801(c) 71.155    Speeding                              
                             1-10 mph over                        $175
                             11-15 mph over                       $190
                             16-20 mph over                       $215
                             21-25 mph over                       $235
                             26+ mph over                         $255
47 O.S. § 11-901    71.170    Reckless driving                     $350
47 O.S. § 11-801(a) 71.171    Careless driving                     $300
47 O.S. § 11-801(a) 71.171    Driving in a manner unreasonable or  $250
                               improper
47 O.S. § 6-303              Driving under a suspended driver’s $350
                               license
47 O.S. § 6-303(a)  70.030    Driving without a license            $250
47 O.S. § 6-112              No driver’s license in possession  $160
47 O.S. § 6-101(e)           Expired driver’s license           $200
47 O.S. § 6-113              Violation of #9 restriction          $200
47 O.S. § 6-305     70.032    Permitting an unlicensed driver      $225
47 O.S. § 1-113     70.031    Expired, improper or no license      $225
                               plate
47 O.S. § 7-602.1            Failure to carry insurance           $200
                               verification
47 O.S. § 7-602(a)           Falsely or fraudulently certify      $225
                               existence of insurance
47 O.S. § 12-417             Failure to wear seatbelt             $20
47 O.S. § 11-1112            Failure to use child restraints      $175
21 O.S. § 1220               Transporting open container - beer   $300
21 O.S. § 1220               Transporting open container - liquor $350
47 O.S. § 11-305    71.045    Driving left of center               $200
47 O.S. § 6-105              Violation of driver’s license      $200
                               restriction
47 O.S. § 11-962    71.172    D.U.I. liquor or drugs               District
47 O.S. § 12-401    70.063    Defective vehicle equipment          $200
47 O.S. § 12-402    70.063    Defective or improper mufflers       $200
47 O.S. § 11-310    71.053    Following to closely                 $200
47 O.S. § 1102      71.185    Improper backing                     $200
47 O.S. § 11-705             Failure to stop for school bus       $300
47 O.S. § 11-201(a) 71.022    Disobey sign or signal               $200
47 O.S. § 804(a)             Impeding traffic                     $200
47 O.S. § 11-301    71.193    Driving on sidewalk                  $200
47 O.S. § 10-114    70.045    Failure to report an accident        $300
47 O.S. § 11-103             Leaving the scene of an accident     $325
47 O.S. § 11-1007(a)         Parking in handicap parking          $200
                    72.04     Parking in space marked off          $200
                    72.06     Parking in streets or alleys         $200
                    72.05     All other parking violations         $200
21 O.S. § 540(a)             Eluding an officer                   $350
47 O.S. § 11-605    71.126    Failure to use turn signal           $200
47 O.S. § 11-405    71.084    Failure to yield to emergency        $300
                               vehicle
47 O.S. § 11-401    71.080    Failure to yield                     $200
47 O.S. § 12-301    70.066    Use of Jake brake                    $200
                    71.214    Truck route violations               $200
                    71.048    Improper passing                     $200
                    71.050    Passing at an intersection           $200
                    71.051    No passing zone                      $200
                    71.122    Obedience to no turn signal          $200
                    71.123    Unlawful u-turn                      $200
                    71.066    Disobey one-way street sign          $200
                    71.067    Wrong way through rotary traffic     $200
                               island
                    71.080    Yield when making left turn          $200
                    71.082    Disobey stop sign                    $200
                    71.083    Disobey yield sign                   $1200
                    71.140    Driving around railroad crossing     $200
                               gate
                    71.140    Disobey railroad crossing sign       $200
47 O.S. § 11-701(a)          Failure to yield to train            $200
                    71.189    Following fire apparatus             $200
                    71.190    Crossing firehose                    $200
                    71.192    Driving through funeral procession   $200
                    71.187    Obstruction of driver’s view       $200
47 O.S. § 11-1204            Clinging to vehicle                  $200
                    71.054    Violation of controlled access       $200
                    71.195    Unlawful riding                      $210
                    71.191    Placing dangerous objects in street  $250
                    72.03     Obedience to angle parking vehicles  $250
                               unlawfully carrying hazmat cargo
47 O.S. § 12-227(b)          Improper display of red lights       $175
47 O.S. § 12-203.2           Failure to dim head lamps            $175
47 O.S. § 12-217.2           Improper use of fog lamps            $175
47 O.S. § 12-201             Failure to display lighted lamps     $175
47 O.S. § 12-203.1           Improper use of driving lamps        $175
47 O.S. § 12-206             Operate motor vehicle without stop   $175
                               lamps
21 O.S. § 1289.13            Transporting loaded firearm          $275
47 O.S. § 6-101(d)           Violation of motorcycle endorsement  $200
47 O.S. § 12-609(b)          Motorcycle helmet required under 18  $175
                               years old
47 O.S. § 12-609(a)          Motorcycle eye protection required   $175
(2)
47 O.S. § 12-609(a)          Mirrors required on motorcycle       $140
(1)
47 O.S. § 14-105(a)          Failure to secure load               $175
47 O.S. § 11-1110(a)         Leaving injurious substance on the   $250
                               roadway
21 O.S. § 1753.3             Littering on roadway                 $200
47 O.S. § 11-1003(a)         Improper stopping/parking at an      $200
                               intersection
47 O.S. § 12-401(a)          Unlawful use of horn                 $175
   Personal, Property Crimes Against Public Peace
21 O.S. § 644       132.20    Assault and battery                  $300
21 O.S. § 1704.2    133.01    Petty larceny                        $250
21 O.S. § 1731      133.02    Receiving stolen property            $325
21 O.S. § 1760      133.03    Malicious injury to property         $325
                    133.06    Tampering with utilities             $300
                    134.01    Refuse to assist officer             $275
21 O.S. § 540       134.02    Resisting an officer                 $325
                    134.04    Escape of prisoner                   $350
21 O.S. § 1531      134.05    Impersonating an officer             $350
                    134.06    False fire alarm                     $250
21 O.S. § 1531      134.07    False representation to officer      $275
                    134.08    Removing barricades                  $225
21 O.S. § 1364      132.01    Discharge firearm in city limits     $225
                    132.02    Unlawful assembly                    $225
21 O.S. § 1363      132.03    Disturbing the peace                 $225
                    111.06    Misrepresent age                     $175
                    111.26    Open after hours                     $250
                    90.040 -  Animals at large                     $125/200/
                     90.049                                         300/ N
                    90.025    Cruelty to animals (possible         $250
                               district file)
                    90.018    Animals that disturb (barking)       $175
                    90.056    Permit dog to roam                   $175
                    90.075    Vicious dog to be killed             $
                    93.20     Discharge of fireworks               $175
                    132.05    Disturbing the public assembly       $250
                    132.06    Loud noise/music prohibited          $250
                    133.03    Molesting auto/other vehicle         $275
                    133.03    Destroy/injury building or property  $300
                    133.05    Throwing/shooting persons of         $325
                               property
21 O.S. § 1768      133.07    Trespassing                          $200
                    133.07    Unlawful entry                       $250
                    97.19     Unlawful play on street or sidewalk  $150
                    73.01     Coasters/rollerskates and the like   $150
                    90.016    Horses prohibited except for parade  $175
21 O.S. § 1214               Unlawful use of radio or receiver    $225
21 O.S. § 1541.1    131.01    Harmful deception                    $275
                    131.02    Bogus check                          $250
21 O.S. § 1287      131.04    Loitering adults 12:00 p.m. to       $200
                               sunrise
                    131.05    Indecent exposure                    $350
37 O.S. § 537(a)(l)          Unlawful sale of liquor under 21     $325
37A O.S. § 6-101(a)          Transporting open container - beer   $300
(7)
37 O.S. § 6-101(a)            Sell/give/barter nonintoxicating
(1)                           beverage to persons under 21 years   $350
                               of age
                             Unlawful to sell or furnish tobacco  $350
                               to persons under 18 years of age
                             Second offense                       $415
                             Third offense                        $435
                             Possession of tobacco purchase,      $350
                               accept
                             Second offense                       $410
21 O.S. § 1242               Refuse to disclose where minor got   $200
                               tobacco
37 O.S. § 246(a)             Minor in possession                  $225
37 O.S. § 8                  Public intoxication/consuming        $250
                               intoxicants in public place
63 O.S. § 2-401     131.08    Possession of narcotics              $350
21 O.S. § 1289.6    132.01    Concealed weapon                     $350
21 O.S. § 904                Profane swearing                     $150
21 O.S. § 381                Bribe or attempt an officer          $300
21 O.S. § 650                Assault and battery on officer       $350
11 O.S. § 507                Hitchhiker-improperly standing on    $75
                               roadway
                    110.02    Selling without permit               $250
                    72.09     Prohibiting certain vehicle from     $175
                               parking trucks
                    131.03    Curfew                               $150
                    96.004/   Nuisances prohibited                 $200
                     96.999
                    96.075/   Health nuisances                     $200
                     96.999
                    96.041/   Abandon vehicles                     $200
                     96.999
                    96.025/   Littering                            $150
                     96.999
                    97.15    Trees and shrubbery                  $150
                    97.18     Trash                                $150
                    97.19     Playing on the streets and sidewalks $125
                    97.35     Excavation permit                    $225
                    90.055    Failure to vaccinate animal          $175
21 O.S. § 856                Contribute to the delinquency of a   $350
                               minor
63 O.S. § 2-405(b)           Possession of drug paraphernalia     $350
Deferral fee                  Fee for 90 day deferral              $100
 
Cross-reference:
   Citations, see §§
70.080 through
70.084
   Presumption of identity of parking violator, see §
70.082
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
§ 35.052 SUMMONS.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of an ordinance, the
Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless the
defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and has
given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons naming the person charged,
specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known, stating the
offense with which he or she is charged, and giving him or her notice to answer
the charge in the Court on a certain day, containing a provision for the
official return of the summons, and including such other pertinent information
as may be necessary.
   (B)   (1)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the
defendant personally.
      (2)   If the defendant fails to appear and/or fails to answer the summons
however prescribed in the written citation within the prescribed period, the
defendant will have mailed to their address on the citation issued to that
defendant, a failure to comply or to satisfy the summons shall be ordered by
the Marshal of the Municipal Court.
      (3)   The defendant will be notified in the failure to comply notice at a
late fee. The fee will be set from time to time by the governing body of the
city. If the summons is not answered or satisfied by the next prescribed court
date, the defendant’s driver’s license will be suspended and a warrant for
their arrest may be initiated.
(1999 Code, § 35.52)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code; complaint, see § 70.083
§ 35.053 WARRANT FOR ARREST.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this municipality
(e.g., see § 35.052), upon the filing of a complaint approved by endorsement by
the Attorney of this municipality or by the Judge, there shall be issued a
warrant of arrest, in substantially the following form:
   “The City of Hooker to the Marshal of the Municipal Court of Hooker,
Oklahoma. Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (name complainant)
that the offense of (name offense) has been committed and accusing (name of
defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefore forthwith to arrest the above-
named (name defendant) and bring _____ before me at ________________.
Witness my hand this ______ day of _________________, 20______.
   ___________________________________
   Judge of the Municipal Court of Hooker”
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the aforesaid Marshal, personally, or through
a duly constituted member of the police force of this municipality, or through
any other persons lawfully authorized so to act, to execute said warrant as
promptly as possible.
(1999 Code, § 35.53)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic code; warrant for arrest, see § 70.083
§ 35.054 ARRAIGNMENT.
   Upon making his or her appearance before the Court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The Judge, or the Attorney of the municipality, shall read the
complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights,
including the right of trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of
conviction, and ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty.
If the defendant pleads guilty, the Court may proceed to judgment and sentence
or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the
Court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(1999 Code, § 35.55)
TRIALS AND JUDGMENT
§ 35.070 POSTPONEMENT OF TRIAL.
   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may obtain a
reasonable postponement thereof.
(1999 Code, § 35.65)
§ 35.071 DEFENDANT TO BE PRESENT.
   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
(1999 Code, § 35.66)
§ 35.072 PROCEDURE.
   In all trials, as to matters not covered by this chapter, or by the statutes
relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by the
Supreme Court of the state, the procedure applicable in trials of misdemeanors
in the District Courts shall apply to the extent that they can be made
effective.
(1999 Code, § 35.67)
Statutory reference:
   Procedure required, see 11 O.S. § 27-113
§ 35.073 WITNESSES.
   (A)   Witnesses in any proceeding in the Court, other than police officers
or peace officers, shall be entitled to a fee per each day of attendance plus a
mileage allowance for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in going to
and returning from the place of attendance (if their residence is outside the
limits of the municipality), as may be authorized by law. However, no witness
shall receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time
or the same travel.
   (B)   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the Clerk
a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for each
witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an indigent
defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
      (1)   The names of no more than three witnesses;
      (2)   The defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
      (3)   The testimony of said witnesses is material; and
      (4)   Their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her proper
defense.
   (C)   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 35.68)
§ 35.074 JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Judgment to be rendered immediately. At the close of trial, judgment
must be rendered immediately by the Judge, who shall cause it to be entered in
his or her docket.
   (B)   Acquittal. If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
   (C)   Conviction or plea of guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty or is
convicted after trial, the Court must render judgment thereon, fixing the
penalty within the limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing
sentence accordingly.
   (D)   Suspension of sentence. After conviction and sentence, the Judge may
suspend sentence in accordance with the provisions of and subject to the
conditions and procedures imposed by 11 O.S. §§ 27-123 and 27-124.
(1999 Code, § 35.69)
§ 35.075 COSTS.
   (A)   If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax
the costs to the defendant, but the total amount of fine may not exceed $500,
plus costs.
   (B)   The Judge shall have the authority to assess costs not to exceed $10
plus fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses in an amount equal to fees and
mileage of jurors and witnesses allowable in District Court under the laws of
the state. Such costs, mileage and juror or witness fees may be assessed in the
following instances:
      (1)   Against any person convicted of an offense against the city; and
      (2)   Against any person who files a complaint against another and
without good cause fails to appear on the date and at the time set for hearing,
or who otherwise fails to diligently prosecute such complaint.
(1999 Code, § 35.70) (Ord. 65, passed 11-7-1983; Ord. passed 7-9-2019)
§ 35.076 IMPRISONMENT.
   If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof,
certified by the Clerk, shall be delivered to the Chief of Police, the Sheriff
of the county or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
(1999 Code, § 35.71)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND BUSINESS
Section
   
36.01   Hooker Industrial Authority Trust
   
36.02   Purchasing
§ 36.01 HOOKER INDUSTRIAL AUTHORITY TRUST.
   The Trust Indenture by and between the Chamber of Commerce of Hooker,
Oklahoma, as Trustor, and H.A. Kilgore, Doyle Bostwick, Mike Grey, John Kerr
and Jeff Montgomery, as Trustees, dated as of October 2, 1967, creating the
Hooker Industrial Authority, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk, wherein the City of Hooker is declared to be the beneficiary of
said Trust, be and the same is hereby approved and the City of Hooker accepts
said Trust as the beneficiary thereof.
(1999 Code, § 36.01)
§ 36.02 PURCHASING.
   (A)   Any purchase greater than $25,000 must be done on a city bid
requisition form by the department head, showing the name and price given by
three different vendors, and if the lowest bidder was not used, stating the
reason why.
   (B)   Any purchase over $50,000 is to be done by sealed bids from three or
more vendors which shall be opened in an open meeting.
   (C)   If an emergency exists that affects the welfare of the citizens of the
city, this section is waived and department heads will use their best
judgement.
   (D)   This section shall be subject to the provisions of the State
Competitive Bidding Act, being 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq., and the provisions for
contracts and expenditures set forth in 62 O.S. §§ 310.1 et seq., and where
such Act and/or statutory provisions dealing with expenditures of public funds
make provision for or require other acts or actions in addition to those set
forth in this section, then and in such event the provisions of said Act and/or
statutory provisions shall, in addition to the provisions of this section, be
complied with.
(1999 Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 80, passed 9-7-1989; Ord. passed 11-6-1989; Ord.
2019-4, passed 7-8-2019)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Telephone and broadband internet exchange inspection fee and charge
   
37.02   Utility tax
Sales Tax
   
37.15   Title
   
37.16   Purpose
   
37.17   Effective date; duration of tax
   
37.18   Effect on other taxes
   
37.19   Effect on existing state permits
   
37.20   Amendments
   
37.21   Definitions
   
37.22   Tax rate; taxable sales
   
37.23   Exempt sales
   
37.24   Exempt transfers of personal property
   
37.25   Payment of tax
   
37.26   Tax as debt; tax priority
   
37.27   Classification of taxpayers
   
37.28   Collection of tax by vendor; advertising
   
37.29   Returns and remittances; discount
   
37.30   Interest and penalties
   
37.31   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
37.32   False returns
   
37.33   Record confidentiality
Use Tax
   
37.45   Title
   
37.46   Purpose
   
37.47   Effect on other taxes
   
37.48   Effect on existing state permits
   
37.49   Definitions
   
37.50   Tax rate; taxable events
   
37.51   Exemptions
   
37.52   Payment of tax
   
37.53   Tax as debt; tax priority
   
37.54   Classification of taxpayers
   
37.55   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor; permits
   
37.56   Permit revocation
   
37.57   Returns and remittances; discount
   
37.58   Interest and penalties
   
37.59   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
37.60   False returns
   
37.61   Record confidentiality
Cross-reference:
Alcoholic beverages; occupation tax, see §
111.02
Business regulations; license tax, see §
110.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 TELEPHONE AND BROADBAND INTERNET EXCHANGE INSPECTION FEE AND CHARGE.
   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm and corporation operating a telephone and broadband
internet exchange in the city in an amount equal to 2% of the gross revenues
for each current year for exchange telephone and broadband internet
transmission service rendered wholly within the limits of the city to
compensate the city for the expense incurred and services rendered incident to
the exercise of its police power, supervision, police regulation and police
control of the construction of lines and equipment of the telephone company in
the city.
(1999 Code, § 37.01) (Ord. passed 4-4-2019)
§ 37.02 UTILITY TAX.
   (A)   Utility tax levied. There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax
of 2% upon gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas,
electricity and cable services within the city, which tax shall be in lieu of
any other franchise, license, occupation or excise tax levied by the city, in
accordance with the provisions of 68 O.S. §§ 2601 through 2605, as amended and
supplemented, and other applicable provisions of state law.
   (B)   Not to apply to franchise. The tax levied under this section shall,
when levied, apply to all persons, firms, associations or corporations engaged
in the business of furnishing gas, electricity or cable services within the
city limits, except it shall not apply to any person, firm, association or
corporation operating under a valid franchise from the city granted pursuant to
Article 18, § 5(a) of the Oklahoma Constitution, nor shall it apply to those
entities exempt from taxation under applicable provisions of state law.
   (C)   Payment of tax. The tax levied under this section shall be levied for
a term of not less than one year and shall be payable quarterly, on or prior to
the tenth day of the months of January, April, July and October of each year,
as applicable, and the proceeds thereof shall be placed in the General Revenue
Fund of the city.
   (D)   Failure to pay tax. Any person, firm, association or corporation
failing or refusing to pay such tax when levied shall be regarded as a
trespasser and may be ousted from the city, and in addition thereto, an action
may be maintained against such person, firm, association or corporation for the
amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same, including reasonable
attorney fees.
   (E)   Tax constitutes lien. The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and
prior lien on all assets located within the city of any person, firm,
association or corporation engaged in the business of selling utility services
within the municipal limits of the city.
   (F)   Record of sales.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of any person, firm, association or
corporation subject to the tax levied hereunder to keep and maintain records as
to the amount of gross receipts of sales of gas, electricity and cable services
to the city, and such records shall be subject to review and audit by the city
upon reasonable request.
      (2)   In addition, a summary of such sales for the preceding calendar
quarter, including the number of customers served, the number of customers
exempt from taxation under applicable state sales tax laws, the number of units
of gas and electricity and cable services (cubic feet or kilowatt hours,
respectively) sold to exempt and non-exempt customers, the gross receipts from
sales tax charged and collected with respect to such sales, shall be provided
to the city at the time of payment of the tax pursuant to division (C) above.
(1999 Code, § 37.02) (Ord. 111, passed 11-4-1996)
SALES TAX
§ 37.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Hooker Sales
Tax Ordinance Number Two” and is hereinafter referred to as “subchapter”.
(1999 Code, § 37.15) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.16 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenues for support of general municipal functions.
(1999 Code, § 37.16) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.17 EFFECTIVE DATE; DURATION OF TAX.
   This subchapter shall become and be effective on and after October 1, 1977,
subject to approval of a majority of the registered voters of the city voting
on same in the manner prescribed state law. This subchapter shall continue in
full force and effect until repealed.
(1999 Code, § 37.17) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.18 EFFECT ON OTHER TAXES.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of city ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 37.18) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.19 EFFECT ON EXISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1351 et seq.
are, for the purposes of this subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and
adopted in lieu of any requirement for an additional city permit for the same
purpose.
(1999 Code, § 37.19) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.20 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the city, by their approval of this subchapter at the election
provided in §
37.17, hereby authorize the City Council by ordinances duly enacted to make
such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner
of administering and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or proper
for efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the tax herein provided
shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the city as
provided by law.
(1999 Code, § 37.20) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.21 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State
Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1351 et seq., are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this subchapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the city government or the official
agency of the state duly designated, according to law or contract authorized by
law, to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
(1999 Code, § 37.21) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.22 TAX RATE; TAXABLE SALES.
   (A)   Tax rate; sales subject to tax. There is hereby levied an excise tax
of 4% upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable
under the sales tax law of the state, including but not exclusive of the
following:
      (1)   Tangible personal property;
      (2)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam or any other
utility or public service, except water;
      (3)   Transportation for hire or persons by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, Pullman car companies, airlines and all other means of
transportation for hire;
      (4)   Service by telephone and internet companies to subscribers or
users, including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This
shall include all services and rental charges having any connection with
transmission of any message;
      (5)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds and characters and
the service of printing or overprinting;
      (6)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotels, apartment hotels, public
rooming houses and public lodging houses and tourist camps;
      (7)   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels
and parking lots;
      (8)   Carrier sales of newspapers and periodicals made directly to
consumers. Other sales of newspapers and periodicals where any individual
transaction does not exceed $1. A CARRIER is a person who regularly delivers
newspapers or periodicals to subscribers on an assigned route;
      (9)   Advertising of all kinds, types and character, including any and
all devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising
devices, except as provided in §
37.23(A)(14);
      (10)   Dues or fees to clubs, and the sale of tickets or admission to
places of amusement or athletic, entertainment or recreational events, or dues
or fees for the privilege of having access to or the use of amusement,
entertainment, athletic or recreational facilities, including free or
complimentary passes. Tickets, dues or fees are hereby declared to have a value
equivalent to the sale price of tickets, passes, admissions, fees or dues of
like kind or character; and
      (11)   (a)   The sale, preparation or service of ice or nonalcoholic
beverages that are sold, prepared or served for the purpose of being mixed with
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where such sale,
preparation or service occurs.
         (b)   The total retail sale price received for the sale, preparation
or service of ice or nonalcoholic beverages to be mixed with alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where such sale, preparation and
service occurs shall constitute the gross receipts from such transaction.
   (B)   Deemed sales to consumers or users.
      (1)   For the purpose of this subchapter, sales of service and tangible
personal property made for the purpose of developing real estate, even though
such real estate is intended for resale as real property, are hereby declared
to be sales to consumers or users.
      (2)   Sales of service and tangible personal property, including
materials, supplies and equipment made to contractors who use same in the
performance of any contract, are hereby declared to be sales to consumers or
users and not sales for resale.
      (3)   Sales of tangible personal property to persons who are primarily
engaged in selling their services shall be deemed sales to consumers or users
and, therefore, taxable.
      (4)   Sales of tangible personal property to peddlers, solicitors and
other salespersons who do not have established places of business shall be
deemed to be sales to consumers or users and, therefore, taxable.
   (C)   Additional tax.
      (1)   Citations and codification. This division (C) shall be known and
may be cited as the “City of Hooker Sales Tax Ordinance of 2008”, and the same
shall be codified and incorporated into the code of ordinances of the city.
      (2)   Tax imposed. There is hereby imposed an excise tax of 1% (in
addition to any and all other excise taxes now in force) to be levied upon the
gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the State
Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1351 et seq.
      (3)   Purpose of revenues. It is hereby declared to be the purpose of
this division (C) to provide revenues of 0.5% to be used for the City Fire
Department and Ambulance Service and for the City Treasurer to set up a new
cash account to be used from date of approval forward entitled “Emergency
Services” for the funds to be placed in for the Fire Department and EMS; 0.25%
to be divided equally for the benefit of the city municipal pool, city parks,
city library and cemetery; and 0.25% for the General Fund of the city, and any
public trust having the city as beneficiary thereof and/or for the payment of
debt service in connection with obligations issued to finance said capital
expenditures.
      (4)   Effective date. The provisions of this division (C) and the
collection of the excise tax referenced herein shall become effective on and
after January 1, 2009, subject to approval by a majority of the qualified
electors of the city voting on the same in the manner prescribed by law.
      (5)   No repeal of tax. This division (C) and the excise tax levied
pursuant hereto shall not be repealed by the City Council or by referendum of
the registered qualified voters of the city in the event the proceeds of the
referenced excise tax are being used or have been pledged by the city of any
public trust having the city as beneficiary for the purpose of paying debt
service on obligations issued by the city or any public trust having the city
as beneficiary.
      (6)   Subsisting state permits. All valid and subsisting permits to do
business issued by the State Tax Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1351 et seq. are, for the purposes of this division (C),
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional city permit for the same purpose.
      (7)   Payment of tax. The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax
Collector at the time and in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the
state sales tax under the state tax law.
      (8)   This tax in addition to taxes currently levied; administrative
procedures. The tax levied hereby is in addition to any and all other excise
taxes levied or assessed by the city including those levied and assessed by
Ord. 11 and Ord. 32; provided, however, that those provisions of said
ordinances relating to definitions; Tax Collector defined; classification of
taxpayers; subsisting state permits; the portion of tax rate—sales subject to
tax, pertaining to sales subject to tax; the provisions of said ordinances
regarding exemptions and other exempt transfers; the provisions of said
ordinances regarding tax due when— returns—records; the portion of said
ordinances regarding tax constituting debt; vendor’s duty to collect tax;
returns and remittances; interest and penalties—delinquency; waiver of interest
and penalties; erroneous payments—claim for refund; fraudulent returns; and
records confidential shall apply to the excise tax levied and assessed by this
subchapter. For purposes of this division (C), references in Ord. 11 and Ord.
32, to specific provisions of the Oklahoma Statutes shall be deemed to be
references to said statutory provisions, as amended.
      (9)   Amendments. The people of the city, by their approval of this
division (C) at an election hereby authorize the city by ordinance duly enacted
to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method
and manner of administration and enforcing this division (C) as may be
necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness or in order to make the same
consistent with the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1351 et seq., as
amended, except that the rate of the tax herein provided for shall not be
changed without approval of the qualified electors of the city as provided by
law.
      (10)   Provisions cumulative. The provisions hereof shall be cumulative
and in addition to any and all other taxing provisions of city ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 37.22) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
71, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 73, passed 1-6-1986; Ord. 120, passed 10-5-1998; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. 2008-3, passed 8-14-2008; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.23 EXEMPT SALES.
   (A)   Generally. There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied
by this subchapter the gross receipts of gross proceeds exempted from the sales
tax law of the state, inclusive but not exclusive of, and derived from, the
following:
      (1)   Sale of nonintoxicating beverages taxed as provided by state law;
      (2)   Sale of cigarettes and such tobacco products as are taxed by state
law;
      (3)   Sale of raw products from the farm, orchard or garden, where such
sale is made by the producer of such raw products directly to the consumer or
user; gross receipts or gross proceeds derived from the sale of livestock,
poultry, poultry products and dairy products by the producers; exemptions
granted by this division (A)(3) shall not apply when such articles are sold,
even though by the producer thereof, at or from an “established business place”
not on a farm; neither shall this exemption apply unless said articles are
produced or grown with this state. The provisions of this division (A)(3) are
intended to exempt the sale by livestock producers of livestock sold at special
livestock sales. The provisions of this division (A)(3) are intended to exempt
the sale of dairy products when sold by a dairyperson or farmer who owns all of
the cows from which the dairy products he or she sells are produced. The
provisions of this division (A)(3) shall not be construed to exempt sales of
dairy products by any other business. The provisions of this division (A)(3)
shall not be construed to exempt sales by florists, nurserypersons and chicken
hatcheries;
      (4)   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof, provided that such
societies or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan
or system and provided that such societies or organizations do not operate for
a profit which inures to the benefit of any individual member or members
thereof to the exclusion of other members;
      (5)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except where such organization may be engaged in business for profit or
savings, competing with other persons engaged in the same or similar business;
      (6)   (a)   Gross receipts and gross proceeds deriving from the
transportation of school children to and from schools and high schools in motor
and other vehicles; and
         (b)   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not
exceed $0.15 or local transportation of persons within the corporate limits of
cities and towns except by taxicabs.
      (7)   Sale of food in public, common, high school or college cafeterias
and lunch rooms operated primarily for teachers and pupils, not operated
primarily for the public and not operated for profit;
      (8)   Carrier sales made directly to consumers or users of newspapers or
any other periodicals where any individual transaction does not exceed $1.50;
      (9)   Sales to the United States government, the state or any of its
political subdivisions;
      (10)   Sale of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax,
gasoline excise tax or special fuels tax has been paid to the state;
      (11)   Sale of crude petroleum or natural or casinghead gas and other
products subject to gross production tax under the provisions of the laws of
this state. This exemption shall not apply when such products are sold to a
consumer or user for consumption or use, except when used for injection into
the earth for the purpose of promoting or facilitating the production of oil or
gas;
      (12)   Sales of motor vehicles, attached optional equipment and
accessories, on which sale the state motor vehicle excise tax has been paid;
      (13)   Sales by county, district and state fairs;
      (14)   Sale of advertising space in newspapers and periodicals and
billboard advertising service, and sales of time for radio and television
broadcasts of advertising;
      (15)   (a)   Sales for resale to persons regularly engaged in the
business of reselling the articles purchased, whether within or without the
state, provided that such sales to residents of this state are made to persons
to whom sales tax permits have been issued by the State Tax Commission as
provided by law. This exemption shall not apply to the sales of articles made
to persons holding permits when such persons purchase items for their use and
which they are not regularly engaged in the business of reselling; neither
shall this exemption apply to sales of tangible personal property to peddlers,
solicitors and other salespersons who do not have sales tax permits or
established places of business; and
         (b)   Goods, wares, merchandise and property sold for use in
manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling or preparing for sale shall
be classified as having been sold for the purpose of resale or the subject
matter of resale only in the event:
            1.   Such goods, wares, merchandise or property is purchased for
the purpose of being manufactured into a finished article and if it becomes a
recognizable, integral part of the manufactured, compounded, processed,
assembled or prepared products; or
            2.   If it is consumed in the process of manufacturing,
compounding, processing, assembling or preparing products for resale.
      (16)   Sale of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in this state, and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in this state, provided that this
exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated
into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to
taxation hereunder. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and
generally recognized as such;
      (17)   Sale of tangible personal property manufactured in this state when
sold by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state;
      (18)   Sale of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other person who after such sale owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the state sales or use tax has previously been paid on
such tangible personal property;
      (19)   Sales of containers shall be exempt when sold to a person
regularly engaged in the business of reselling empty or filled containers, or
when the person purchases such containers for the purpose of packaging raw
products of farm, garden or orchard for resale to the consumer or processor,
provided that this exemption shall not apply to the sale of containers used
more than once and which are ordinarily known as returnable containers unless a
tax under this title is collected and paid to the Tax Collector with respect to
each and every transfer by such person of title or possession of such
returnable container if made to any consumer or user within this state; nor
shall it apply to the sale of labels or other materials delivered along with
items sold but which are not necessary or absolutely essential to the sale of
the sold merchandise;
      (20)   Exemptions of poultry and livestock feed, farm machinery and baby
chicks, turkeys, poults and starter pullets, as prescribed by the State Sales
Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1351 et seq., shall be equally applicable as
exemptions from the tax herein levied. See divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) below;
      (21)   Sales to council organizations or similar state supervisory
organizations of the Boy Scouts of America, the Girl Scouts of U.S.A. and the
Campfire Girls shall be exempt from sales tax; and
      (22)   The proceeds from any amount separately stated on the ticket of
admission for the repayment of money borrowed by an accredited state-supported
college or university for the purpose of constructing or enlarging any
entertainment facility as prescribed by the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S.
§§ 1351 et seq. shall also be exempt from the tax herein levied.
   (B)   Agricultural supplies and equipment.
      (1)   Exemption of fertilizer. In addition to all other exemptions
allowed by this subchapter, the sales of agricultural fertilizer to persons
regularly engaged for profit in the business of farming and/or ranching which
are exempt from state sales taxes under provisions of 68 O.S. § 1358 shall
likewise be exempt from the city sales tax herein levied.
      (2)   Exemption of farm machinery. In addition to other exemptions
allowed by this subchapter, the sales of farm machinery to be used directly on
a farm or ranch in the production, cultivation, planting, sowing, harvesting,
processing, spraying, preservation or irrigation of any livestock, poultry,
agricultural or dairy products produced from such lands which are exempt from
state sales tax under provision of 68 O.S. § 1358 shall be likewise exempt from
the city sales tax herein levied. Each purchaser of farm machinery must
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the seller that he or she is engaged in farming or ranching and that the
farm machinery will be used in farming or ranching.
      (3)   Exemption of gross proceeds from sale and purchase of feed. In
addition to the other exemptions allowed by this subchapter, the sales and
purchases within the state of feed shall, subject to the conditions and
limitations set forth in 68 O.S. § 1358, also be exempt from the sales tax.
(1999 Code, § 37.23) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.24 EXEMPT TRANSFERS OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Additionally, there is hereby specifically exempted from the tax herein
levied the transfer of tangible personal property exempted from the sales tax
law of the state, inclusive but not exclusive of the following:
   (A)   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. As used in this section, the term REORGANIZATION means:
      (1)   A statutory merger or consolidation; and
      (2)   The acquisition by a corporation of substantially all of the
properties of another corporation when the consideration is solely all or a
part of the voting stock of the acquiring corporation, or of its parent or
subsidiary corporation.
   (B)   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of a
corporation only when there is distribution in kind to the shareholders of the
property of such corporation;
   (C)   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of such corporation
where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the
transfer in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities received by
each is substantially in proportion to this interest in the property prior to
the transfer;
   (D)   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the former
owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer members
of such partnerships and the interest in the partnership received by each is
substantially in proportion to this interest in the property prior to the
transfer; and
   (E)   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in the
dissolution of such partnership.
(1999 Code, § 37.24) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.25 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Tax due when; returns; records. The tax levied hereunder shall be due
and payable at the time and in the form and manner provided for payment of the
state sales tax under the sales tax law of this state.
   (B)   Payment of tax. The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax
Collector at the time and in the form and manner provided for payment of state
sales tax under the sales tax law of the state.
(1999 Code, § 37.25) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.26 TAX AS DEBT; TAX PRIORITY.
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(1999 Code, § 37.26) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.27 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Sales
Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1351 et seq.
(1999 Code, § 37.27) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.28 COLLECTION OF TAX BY VENDOR; ADVERTISING.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this city to
collect from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this
subchapter, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the
average equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall constitute
a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or user to
the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as
other debts.
   (C)   A vendor, as defined herein, who willfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied hereof, or
willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the
provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or
indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied,
or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which
infers that he or she is absorbing the tax or paying the tax for the consumer
or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax or in any
manner whatsoever shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99.
(1999 Code, § 37.28) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.29 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNT.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time, and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Sales Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1351 et seq., and remittances of the tax collected hereunder
shall be subject to the same discount as may be allowed by said code for
collection of state sales taxes.
(1999 Code, § 37.29) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.30 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Interest and penalties; delinquency. 68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted
and made a part of this subchapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and
in amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in
cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this subchapter,
provided that the failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this
subchapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his
or her claim to any discount allowed under this subchapter.
   (B)   Waiver of interest and penalties. The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a taxpayer’s failure to pay the tax
herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said
waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the state sales tax
provided in 68 O.S. § 220, and to accomplish the purposes of this section the
applicable provisions of said § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 37.30) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.31 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedures
and under the same limitations of time as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the purposes
of this section the applicable provisions of said § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 37.31) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
§ 37.32 FALSE RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this subchapter, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances therein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this subchapter shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof the offending
taxpayer shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99.
(1999 Code, § 37.32) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.33 RECORD CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the State
Sales Tax Code and each subsection thereof are hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the city sales tax as
if here set forth in full.
(1999 Code, § 37.33) (Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1969; Ord. 32, passed 7-7-1977; Ord.
passed 4-7-2007; Ord. passed 3-12-2009)
USE TAX
§ 37.45 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “The City of Hooker Use
Tax Ordinance”.
(1999 Code, § 37.45) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.46 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the
municipality, and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the
governing body of the municipality for any purpose for which funds may be
lawfully expended as authorized.
(1999 Code, § 37.46) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.47 EFFECT ON OTHER TAXES.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of city ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 37.47) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.48 EFFECT ON EXISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Tax Commission
pursuant to the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1354.14 et seq. are for
the purpose of this subchapter hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu
of any requirement for an additional city permit for the same purpose.
(1999 Code, § 37.48) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.49 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State Use
Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1401 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this subchapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the city government or the official
agency of the state, duly designated, according to law or contract authorized
by law, to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
      TRANSACTION. Sale.
(1999 Code, § 37.49) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.50 TAX RATE; TAXABLE EVENTS.
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the municipality tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into this municipality an excise tax on the
storage, use or other consuming within the municipality of such property at the
rate of 2% of the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall paid by every
person storing, using or otherwise consuming within the municipality tangible,
personal property purchased or brought into the municipality. The additional
tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the
property within the municipality and shall be assessed to only property
purchased outside the state; provided that the tax levied herein shall not be
levied against tangible, personal property intended solely for use outside the
municipality, but which is stored in the municipality pending shipment outside
the municipality or which is temporarily retained in the municipality for the
purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration, maintenance or other
service. Any person liable for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct
from such tax any local municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or
services, provided that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that
would have been due if the taxes imposed by the municipality had been levied on
the sale of such goods or services.
(1999 Code, § 37.50) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.51 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by a nonresident individual visiting in this
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the State Use Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1354.14 et seq. and the city use tax regulations, has
been paid by the person using such tangible, personal property in the
municipality, whether such tax was levied under the laws of this state or some
other state or municipality of the United States. If any article of tangible,
personal property has already been subjected to a tax by this state or any
other state or municipality in respect to its sale or use in an amount less
than the tax imposed by both the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1354.14
et seq. and the city use tax regulations, the provisions of this subchapter
shall also apply to it by a rate measured by the difference only between the
rate provided by both the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1354.14 et seq.
and the city use tax regulations, and the rate by which the previous tax upon
the sale or use was computed, provided that no credit shall be given for taxes
paid in another state or municipality if that state or municipality does not
grant like credit for taxes paid in the state and the municipality;
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the
municipality, and machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the
operation of manufacturing plants already established in the municipality,
provided that this exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and
equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of
manufacturing property subject to taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the
municipality. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those establishments
primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and generally
recognized as such;
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of this municipality where such personal property is for such individual’s
personal use or enjoyment;
   (G)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; and
   (H)   In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and brought into
this municipality for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(1999 Code, § 37.51) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.52 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax levied by this subchapter is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the State Use
Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1354.14 et seq.
(1999 Code, § 37.52) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.53 TAX AS DEBT; TAX PRIORITY.
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(1999 Code, § 37.53) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.54 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Use Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1354.14 et seq.
(1999 Code, § 37.54) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.55 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR; PERMITS.
   (A)   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor generally. Every retailer or
vendor maintaining places of business both within and without this state and
making sales of tangible, personal property from a place of business outside
this state for use in this municipality shall at the time of making such sales
collect the use tax levied by this subchapter from the purchaser and give to
the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by the Tax
Commission, if the Tax Commission shall, by regulation, require such receipt.
Each retailer or vendor shall list with the Tax Commission the name and address
of all his or her agents operating in this municipality and the location of any
and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places of business in
this city.
   (B)   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of
business within this state or both within and without the state; permits. The
Tax Commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a
place of business within this state but who makes sales of tangible personal
property for use in this municipality and by the out of state place of business
of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without the state and making sales of tangible, personal property at such out
of state place of business for use in this municipality. Such retailer or
vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes by the Tax
Commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it
shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or
vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible, personal property sold to his or
her knowledge for use within this municipality. Such authority and permit may
be cancelled when at any time the Tax Commission considers that such tax can
more effectively be collected from the person using such property in this
municipality; provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are
made or completed by delivery to the purchaser within this municipality by the
retailer or vendor in such retailer’s or vendor’s vehicle, whether owned or
leased (not by common carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be
subject to applicable municipality sales tax at the point of delivery, and the
tax shall be collected and reported under the taxpayer’s sales tax permit
number accordingly.
(1999 Code, § 37.55) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.56 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or whenever any retailer or vendor maintaining a place of business both
within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax herein levied,
fails to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter or the State Use
Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1354.14 et seq. or any order, rules or regulations
of the Tax Commission, the Tax Commission may, upon notice and hearing as
provided for in 68 O.S. § 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel said corporation’s license to do business in
this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has
complied with the obligations under this subchapter, the State Use Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1354.14 et seq. or any order, rules or regulations of the Tax
Commission.
(1999 Code, § 37.56) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.57 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNT.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Use Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1354.14 et seq., and remittances of tax collected hereunder
shall be subject to the same discount as may be allowed by said code for the
collection of state use taxes.
(1999 Code, § 37.57) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.58 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Delinquency. 68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this
subchapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as
therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of
delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this subchapter, provided
that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this
subchapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five days, the retailer or vendor shall
forfeit his or her claim to any discount allowed under this subchapter.
   (B)   Waiver of interest and penalties. The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay
the municipality tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner
as provided for said waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the
state use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220, and to accomplish the purposes of this
section the applicable provisions of said § 220 are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 37.58) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.59 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the municipality use tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said § 227
are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 37.59) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
§ 37.60 FALSE RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this subchapter, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this subchapter, shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof the offending
taxpayer shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1999 Code, § 37.60) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 37.61 RECORD CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipality use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, of the State
Use Tax Code, and each division thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the municipality use
tax as is herein set forth in full.
(1999 Code, § 37.61) (Ord. 89, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. passed 4-12-2007)
CHAPTER 38: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
38.01   Appointment of personnel
   
38.02   Removal of officers and employees
   
38.03   Bond of officers and employees
   
38.04   Compensation
   
38.05   Old Age, Survivors’ and Disability Insurance
   
38.06   Retirement plan
§ 38.01 APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL.
   The Mayor, with approval of the Council, shall appoint such water,
sanitation, cemetery and other personnel as may be necessary to exercise the
powers and perform the duties relative to the functions which are lawfully
imposed upon or assumed by the city.
(1999 Code, § 38.01)
§ 38.02 REMOVAL OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Except as may be otherwise provided by law, officers and employees of the
city who are appointed by the Mayor with approval of the Council may be
removed, suspended or laid off by the Mayor with approval of the Council.
(1999 Code, § 38.02)
§ 38.03 BOND OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Before entering upon their official duties, the following personnel of
the city government shall provide bonds for the faithful performance of their
official duties, payable to the city, with a surety company authorized to
operate within the state, in the amounts respectively indicated after their
titles:
      (1)   City Clerk, $28,000;
      (2)   City Treasurer, $28,000; and
      (3)   Chief of Police, $28,000.
   (B)   The Council, by motion or resolution, may require other officers and
employees in such positions as it may designate to be bonded; also by motion or
resolution may increase the amount of the bonds for the personnel listed in
division (A) above; and also may provide for blanket bonds for city personnel.
   (C)   The city shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
(1999 Code, § 38.03)
§ 38.04 COMPENSATION.
   The Council by motion or resolution may fix the compensation of personnel
other than the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, City Clerk and City
Treasurer, which shall be fixed by ordinance.
(1999 Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 57, passed 1-3-1983)
§ 38.05 OLD AGE, SURVIVORS’ AND DISABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Benefits of federal O.A.S.D.I. to be extended to personnel. It is
hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend, at the
earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof, not excluded by law or
ordinance, and whether employed in connection with a governmental or
proprietary function, the benefits of the system of Federal Old Age, Survivors’
and Disability Insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and
amendments thereto, including Public Law 734, 81st Congress, being codified at
42 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq. In pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose, the
city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal
laws or regulations.
   (B)   Mayor authorized to execute agreements. The Mayor of the city is
hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and
amendments according to state the federal laws, to secure coverage of employees
and officials as provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Withholdings from salaries and wages. Withholdings from salaries or
wages of employees and officials for the purpose in division (A) above are
hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be
required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations and shall be paid
over to the state or federal agency designated by said laws or regulations.
   (D)   Appropriations for employer’s contributions. There shall be
appropriated from available funds such amounts at such times as may be required
by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employer’s
contributions, which shall be paid over to the state or federal agency
designated by said laws or regulations.
   (E)   Records and reports. The city shall keep such records and make such
reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   (F)   Employees and officers now covered by other retirement systems. There
is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make any agreement with
respect to any position or any employee or official now covered or authorized
to be covered by any other ordinance creating any retirement system for any
employee or official of the city.
   (G)   Employees and officers on a fee basis excluded and the like. There is
hereby excluded from this section any authority to make any agreement with
respect to any position or any employee or official whose compensation is on a
fee basis, or any position or any employee or official not authorized to be
covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(1999 Code, § 38.05)
§ 38.06 RETIREMENT PLAN.
   The retirement plan of the city as adopted by Ord. 105 on August 7, 1995, as
amended, is hereby incorporated by reference as if set out in full herein.
(1999 Code, § 38.06) (Ord. 105, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 109, passed 4-8-1996;
Ord. 130, passed 6-21-2001; Ord. 135, passed 7-6-2006; Ord. 2007-10, passed 6-
14-2007; Ord. 2008-6, passed 10-6-2008; Ord. 2010-7, passed 12-6-2010; Ord.
2014-2, passed 11-3-2014; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-7-2020; Ord. 2020-5, passed 6-
15-2020)
CHAPTER 39: ELECTIONS
Section
   
39.01   General election
   
39.02   Primary election
   
39.03   Elections to be held by Election Board of the county
§ 39.01 GENERAL ELECTION.
   A general election shall be held in the city on the first Tuesday in April
of every odd-numbered year to elect the following city officers:
   (A)   Mayor;
   (B)   City Clerk;
   (C)   City Treasurer; and
   (D)   One Council member from each ward of the city.
(1999 Code, § 39.01)
§ 39.02 PRIMARY ELECTION.
   On the third Tuesday in March of every odd-numbered year (just prior to the
general election), a primary election shall be held to nominate candidates for
the offices set forth in §
39.01.
(1999 Code, § 39.02)
§ 39.03 ELECTIONS TO BE HELD BY ELECTION BOARD OF THE COUNTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of municipal elections, the municipal officials
approve the County Election Board holding the city’s elections.
   (B)   The County Election Board has in the past held the nonpartisan general
elections for the city and to comply with state law concerning elections, the
city hereby approves and directs the County Election Board to hold elections
for the city for the offices of Mayor, Treasurer, City Clerk and four Council
members.
   (C)   The officers of the city to be elected are nominated by ward and
elected at large and will be elected for four-year terms with the elections
being held on odd years.
   (D)   Each candidate must be a qualified elector by virtue of being a
resident and registered voter within the municipality and in the ward for
offices from wards for at least six months prior to filing a declaration of
candidacy.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-8-2015)
CHAPTER 40: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
40.01   Purpose
   
40.02   Establishment of Emergency Management Department, Director and
Committee
   
40.03   Director; powers and duties
   
40.04   Plan and records
   
40.05   Emergencies
   
40.06   Law enforcement and arrest powers
   
40.07   Compensation; liability of city
§ 40.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to update and to change the name of the civil
defense organization for the city. The same organization shall now be the
Emergency Management Department as was and is designed to be prepared for, and
to function in the event of emergencies endangering the lives and property of
the people of the city. The duty of the emergency management organization shall
be the protection of the lives and health of the citizens of the city and of
property and property rights, both private and public, and to perform all
functions necessary and incident thereto.
(1999 Code, § 40.01) (Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-7-2011)
§ 40.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT, DIRECTOR AND
COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of
the city the Department of Emergency Management which shall consist of:
   (A)   A Director of Emergency Management who shall be appointed by the Mayor
of the city and serve at his or her pleasure;
   (B)   A Co-Director of Emergency Management who shall be appointed by the
Mayor of the city and assist the Director whether it be one or the other who
serves in the capacity when one is absent and together in different positions
when both are functioning in the capacity of an emergency, and who serves the
Mayor when needed; and
   (C)   An Emergency Management Committee or members of the trained disaster
plan preparedness shall be appointed by the Mayor and serve at his or her
pleasure; the duty of the Committee to help the Director and/or Co-Director of
Emergency Management.
(1999 Code, § 40.02) (Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-7-2011)
§ 40.03 DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Director and Co-Director of Emergency Management shall be the executive
heads and will be responsible for carrying out the emergency management plan or
program of the city. The Co-Director will be responsible for the training of
personnel set forth by federal and state requirements through the National
Incident Management System (NIMS). They shall serve without compensation but
may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of his or her
duties. It is the duty of the Director and Co-Director to carry out the
purposes set forth in this chapter and shall have all necessary power and
authority to form committees or other bodies to carry out their
responsibilities.
(1999 Code, § 40.03) (Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-7-2011)
§ 40.04 PLAN AND RECORDS.
   The Director and Co-Director is further authorized to formulate written
plans and gather information and keep written records thereof to govern the
functions of the emergency management.
(1999 Code, § 40.04) (Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-7-2011)
§ 40.05 EMERGENCIES.
   In the event of a terrorist or enemy-caused emergency or natural disaster,
the Directors, after due authorization from the Mayor of the city, shall have
the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations relating to
emergency management, and, if necessary, take control of transportation,
communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine and public utilities
for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. They shall cooperate
with the activities of other governmental agencies; FEMA; Homeland Security;
and OEMS, including other local emergency management directors or committees.
If required by the Mayor, the Directors shall have control over any and all
funds allocated from any source for the purpose of alleviating distress
conditions in the city.
(1999 Code, § 40.05) (Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-7-2011)
§ 40.06 LAW ENFORCEMENT AND ARREST POWERS.
   Directors of Emergency Management or members of the city’s emergency
response personnel shall have the power and authority to enforce the laws of
the state and ordinances of the city during the period of emergency or disaster
and shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for violations of
such laws or ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 40.06) (Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-7-2011)
§ 40.07 COMPENSATION; LIABILITY OF CITY.
   All members of the emergency management team and/or organization created
hereunder shall serve without compensation, and the city shall not be liable
for any personal injury received by any member of the emergency management team
while acting in the line of duty.
(1999 Code, § 40.07) (Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-7-2011)
CHAPTER 41: CITY POLICY
Section
   
41.01   Smoking policy
§ 41.01 SMOKING POLICY.
   (A)   Smoking has been shown to be responsible for much illness and early
death. Smoke-laden air (passive smoke) also affects the non-smoker’s health and
causes discomfort.
   (B)   Therefore, in an effort to provide a pleasant environment for all of
our patrons and employees while recognizing the preferences of smokers, the
following smoking policy is adopted by this municipality.
      (1)   This entire municipal facility is designated as non-smoking.
Smoking shall not be allowed in any area. All entrances to the facility are
posted with signs stating that “SMOKING IS PROHIBITED”. All employees and
patrons are requested to honor the non-smoking designation and to respect the
preferences of others.
      (2)   Management bears the responsibility for addressing complaints,
including asking smokers to refrain from smoking upon request of a patron or
employee suffering discomfort from smoke or who has hypersensitivity to smoke.
(1999 Code, § 41.01) (Res. passed 12-5-1994)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
      
54.   GAS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Utility deposits
§ 50.01 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   Effective upon adoption of this section, money in the Municipal Treasury
which has been acquired as a utility deposit from a customer of a municipal
utility shall be refunded or credited to the customer upon termination of the
utility service and payment of all charges due and connected with the service,
or at an earlier date as may be allowed by the municipality. If the deposit has
not been claimed by or refunded to a customer within one year following
termination of the utility service to the customer, the municipality shall send
written notice to the customer at his or her last known address stating that
the deposit will be paid over to the municipality unless it is claimed by the
customer within 90 days of the date the notice is mailed by the municipality.
If the money is not claimed or refunded within the 90 days, the amount of the
deposit shall be paid into the fund of the municipal utility for which the
deposit was collected, or into the General Fund as may be determined by the
City Council. No municipal utility customer shall have a right to any claim or
refund on the deposit after written notice and expiration of the 90-day period
in accordance with this section.
(1999 Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 66, passed 11-7-1983)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer; fees and deposits, see §
53.03
   Water; fees and deposits, see §
52.03
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
Collection of Garbage and Trash
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Unlawful to allow garbage and trash to accumulate
   
51.03   Garbage containers
   
51.04   Customer service within three-mile radius of the city limits
   
51.05   Prohibited material and disposal
   
51.06   Removal by city or by contract and the like
   
51.07   Unlawful use of the city trash receptacles
   
51.08   Sanitary Inspector
   
51.09   Burning refuse
   
51.10   Use of city’s landfill grounds
 
   
51.99   Penalty
COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND TRASH
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Vegetable or animal refuse accumulating from homes, hotels, motels,
restaurants, dwellings, markets, stores and other establishments.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal or waste, or matter of any kind or form which is
uncared for, discarded or abandoned.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2019-3, passed 6-13-2019)
§ 51.02 UNLAWFUL TO ALLOW GARBAGE AND TRASH TO ACCUMULATE.
   It is unlawful for the owner or occupants of any premises in the city to
allow garbage and trash, or either of them, to suffer or permit water or putrid
substances, whether vegetable or animal to accumulate thereon so as to cause an
offensive odor to be emitted, or to become in any condition injurious or
dangerous to the health of the neighborhood or any inhabitant thereof. Any such
condition is hereby declared to be in violation of this subchapter, and in
addition, is declared to be a nuisance and may be abated as such.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2019-3, passed 6-13-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   Except as provided in §
51.04, the owners or occupants of all residences and business premises in the
city shall place all garbage and trash in steel bins as provided by the city
and placed at strategic locations throughout the city.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2019-3, passed 6-13-2019)
§ 51.04 CUSTOMER SERVICE WITHIN THREE-MILE RADIUS OF THE CITY LIMITS.
   The city shall place garbage bins as provided to the city residences and
businesses within a three- mile radius of the city limits at the request of
occupants of residences within said area; with the same regulations as listed
herein.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2019-3, passed 6-13-2019)
§ 51.05 PROHIBITED MATERIAL AND DISPOSAL.
   The following described materials and materials of the same class are
prohibited materials and shall not be placed in or beside the steel trash bins:
   (A)   Dirt, sand, gravel, cement or manure;
   (B)   Masonry, masonry products, building materials, wood, shingles, lumber,
floor coverings, carpet, pallets, metal, construction components, construction
or remodeling debris;
   (C)   Machinery, equipment, appliances, furniture, tires or other motor
vehicle parts;
   (D)   Grass, shrub trimmings, trees, tree limbs, tree stumps, leaves or
other yard waste;
   (E)   Hazardous or flammable material;
   (F)   Business or industrial waste; and
   (G)   Other material of like size, density or mass, which because of its
nature is likely to damage city owned equipment or injure city personnel.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2019-3, passed 6-13-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 REMOVAL BY CITY OR BY CONTRACT AND THE LIKE.
   (A) Generally. The city shall have the exclusive right to collect, remove
and dispose of garbage and trash, or either of them, in the city and within the
three-mile radius, or may, through its duly elected, qualified and acting
officers, enter into a contract with some suitable person, firm or corporation
granting the exclusive right to collect, remove and dispose of garbage and
trash, or either of them, in regards to the city.
   (B)   Only authorized persons to transport garbage and trash. It is unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation, unless authorized to do so by the city, to
remove from any premises situated in the city or the city’s area of service to
transport through the streets, alleys or public places of the city any garbage
or trash.
   (C)   Fees.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   The owners or occupants of all such residences, business
premises, churches and schools shall pay reasonable fees for the removal of
garbage and trash, or either of them, whether removed by the city or by
contractor, the amount of such fees to be determined by the Mayor and City
Council. Such fees shall be collected monthly at the office of the City Clerk
in the same manner and at the same time as bills for water are rendered and
collected. To all bills or charges for such services not paid by the tenth day
of the month, a penalty of 10% per month shall be added.
         (b)   The fees for collection and removal of garbage and trash shall
be as follows:
            1.   In residences occupied by only one family, the family shall
pay $28 per month:
            2.   In duplexes, apartment houses and all other buildings where
more than one family reside or board, each family shall pay $28 per month;
            3.   In all other buildings where no more than one family resides
or boards, the charge shall be the amount determined by the Mayor and City
Council, but not to exceed $28 per family;
            4.   All schools and business places shall be charged a minimum of
$38 per month with a charge of $38 for each additional trash receptacle at
their place of service or business;
            5.   Any business sharing a single dwelling will be sent one bill
and charged one water rate of $26; one sewer rate of $15 and two base trash
rates consisting of one business rate for $38 and one residential rate for $28
totaling $66 per month;
            6.   All churches and charitable organizations shall receive a
charge for their trash collection of $28 per month;
            7.   All businesses at residences shall have a charge of $8 for
their business trash collection and $28 for their residence trash collection,
making their monthly charge $36. The provision of adequate trash receptacles at
the businesses shall be the duty of the city;
            8.   Residences who are outside the city limits shall receive a
charge of $38 per month; and
            9.   Three thousand five hundred dollars of all gross receipts for
collection of water, sewer and garbage shall be set aside in the Capital
Improvement Garbage Fund and $5,000 of all gross receipts for collection of
water, sewer and garbage shall be set aside in a Capital Improvement Fund as
designated by motion of the City Council.
      (2)   Roll-off bins. For the purpose of providing funds to provide
service and personnel and use of the city roll-off bin located at any location
by choice of the city, and for the convenience of citizens to have a receptacle
to dispose of approved items outside the criteria of allowable dumpster items,
there is hereby established a schedule of fees and charges:
         (a)   For any disposal, a minimum $5 fee will be charged at the time
of disposal;
         (b)   For disposals of pick-up size loads, a minimum $10 fee will be
charged at the time of disposal; and
         (c)   For larger or trailer size disposals, a minimum $20 fee will be
charged at the time of disposal.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2015-2, passed 6-4-2015; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-13-2019)
§ 51.07 UNLAWFUL USE OF THE CITY TRASH RECEPTACLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who does not pay
trash collection fees to the city to place any material in any trash bin or
receptacle.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2019-3, passed 6-13-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 SANITARY INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city shall appoint a Sanitary Inspector, who shall be
appointed as a member of the City Police Department.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Sanitary Inspector to inspect all premises
in the city as often as may be required, and to report any and all unsanitary
conditions to the Mayor and Council and to the owner or occupant of the
premises where such conditions are found.
   (C)   It shall be the further duty of the Sanitary Inspector to make written
reports covering the sanitary conditions in the city.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2019-3, passed 6-13-2019)
§ 51.09 BURNING REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to burn any
combustible refuse or garbage within the city limits of the city.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2019-3, passed 6-13-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 USE OF CITY’S LANDFILL GROUNDS.
   (A)   Generally. No person, resident or nonresident of the city shall
deposit any trash, garbage, carcass, car body, concrete or any other solid
waste material upon the city landfill grounds without first obtaining
permission from the City Superintendent.
   (B)   Unlawful hauling and dumping; presumptions.
      (1)   Prima facie presumption that a registered owner of a vehicle
committed a violation. In any prosecution charging a violation of division (A)
above, proof that a particular vehicle described in the complaint was used for
the purpose of unlawfully hauling or dumping of refuse matter as prohibited
therein together with proof that the individual named in the complaint was at
the time of violation the registered owner of said vehicle shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of said vehicle
was the person who committed the violation.
      (2)   Prima facie presumption that a person whose address appears on
three or more items of unlawfully disposed of refuse matter committed a
violation of division (A) above. Proof that unlawfully disposed of refuse
matter as described therein which contains three or more items bearing a common
address in a form which tends to identify the latest owner of the items shall
be a prima facie presumption that all competent persons residing at such
address committed the unlawful act of disposal provided that one of the said
items of solid waste bears a date subsequent to October 3, 1994.
      (3)   Allowing refuse to be deposited or remain on premises. No owner or
occupant of land or lots shall knowingly permit the throwing or dumping upon
his or her premises of the material described in division (A) above or permit
these materials to remain on his or her premises after being notified to remove
them by the offices of the city, whether he or she shall have known of or
permitted the throwing or depositing or not.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2019-3, passed 6-13-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, club or society who
violates, disobeys or omits, neglects or refuses to comply with any provision
of §§
51.01 through
51.10 shall be guilty of an offense, and shall, upon conviction, be punished by
a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days or both fine
and imprisonment.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2019-3, passed 6-13-2019)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Water system as public utility
   
52.02   Service application
   
52.03   Service fees and deposits
   
52.04   Prohibited connections
   
52.05   Turning water on
   
52.06   Rates and billing
   
52.07   Turning water off
   
52.08   Turning water on after shutoff; fee
   
52.09   Duties of customers
   
52.10   Liability of city
   
52.11   Inspections; right of entry
   
52.12   Interference with fire hydrants, pipes and the like
   
52.13   Community gardens
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 WATER SYSTEM AS PUBLIC UTILITY.
   (A)   The city water system is a public utility owned and operated by the
city.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the Mayor to see that it is operated in a
business-like manner and in accordance with ordinance provisions and other
policies adopted by the Council.
(1999 Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 52.02 SERVICE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to secure water from the city system shall make an
application therefor to the City Clerk. The applicant shall give such
reasonable information as the City Clerk may request.
   (B)   A person owing a water bill or other charges in connection with the
city water system shall not be extended city water service until such bills and
charges have been paid.
(1999 Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 52.03 SERVICE FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Water tap charge. The charge for making a water tap shall be decided
by the City Council from time to time.
   (B)   Deposit for water service.
      (1)   Residential service. Every applicant for water service shall make a
deposit of $75 with the City Clerk or present a letter of credit from a water
utility company at his or her previous place of residence showing he or she has
a good credit history, and such applicant shall not be granted water service
until he or she has paid to the City Clerk such deposit, or presented a letter
of credit. The deposit shall service as a guarantee for the payment of charges
for water service and other amounts owed to the city in connection with such
service. When such customer's service is disconnected, the deposit or any part
of such amount deposited which remains after all such charges and amounts due
the city have been satisfied, shall be returned to the customer. A charge of
$25 shall be made for a service charge to turn a customer's water on or when
the meter is read for new service. When the customer's water service accounts
have been maintained current and fully paid for a period of one year, the City
Clerk shall return the water service deposit to the customer.
      (2)   Commercial service. Every applicant for water service shall make a
deposit of $125 with the City Clerk or present a letter of credit from a water
utility company at his or her previous place of residence showing he or she has
a good credit history, and such applicant shall not be granted water service
until he or she has paid to the City Clerk such deposit, or presented a letter
of credit. The deposit shall service as a guarantee for the payment of charges
for water service and other amounts owed to the city in connection with such
service. When such customer's service is disconnected, the deposit or any part
of such amount deposited which remains after all such charges and amounts due
the city have been satisfied, shall be returned to the customer. A charge of
$25 shall be made for a service charge to turn a customer's water on or when
the meter is read for new service. When the customer's water service accounts
have been maintained current and fully paid for a period of one year, the City
Clerk shall return the water service deposit to the customer.
      (3)   Public authority. Every applicant for water service shall make a
deposit of $125 with the City Clerk or present a letter of credit from a water
utility company at his or her previous place of residence showing he or she has
a good credit history, and such applicant shall not be granted water service
until he or she has paid to the City Clerk such deposit, or presented a letter
of credit. The deposit shall service as a guarantee for the payment of charges
for water service and other amounts owed to the city in connection with such
service. When such customer's service is disconnected, the deposit or any part
of such amount deposited which remains after all such charges and amounts due
the city have been satisfied, shall be returned to the customer. A charge of
$25 shall be made for a service charge to turn a customer's water on or when
the meter is read for new service. When the customer's water service accounts
have been maintained current and fully paid for a period of one year, the City
Clerk shall return the water service deposit to the customer.
      (4)   Industrial. Every applicant for water service shall make a deposit
of $150 with the City Clerk or present a letter of credit from a water utility
company at his or her previous place of residence showing he or she has a good
credit history, and such applicant shall not be granted water service until he
or she has paid to the City Clerk such deposit, or presented a letter of
credit. The deposit shall service as a guarantee for the payment of charges for
water service and other amounts owed to the city in connection with such
service. When such customer's service is disconnected, the deposit or any part
of such amount deposited which remains after all such charges and amounts due
the city have been satisfied, shall be returned to the customer. A charge of
$25 shall be made for a service charge to turn a customer's water on or when
the meter is read for new service. When the customer's water service accounts
have been maintained current and fully paid for a period of one year, the City
Clerk shall return the water service deposit to the customer.
(1999 Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 67, passed 3-26-1984; Ord. 88, passed 10-3-1991;
Ord. 121, passed 3-24-2000; Ord. 128, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-
15-2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-4-2024)
Cross-reference:
   Utility deposits, see §
50.01
§ 52.04 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   Not more than one premises or living unit may be connected to any one water
meter. No customer shall make or permit to be made any subsidiary connection of
another’s premises with his or her water service.
(1999 Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 TURNING WATER ON.
   The Hooker Municipal Authority will include the Public Works Water
Department and the Gas Department relating to the repeal of all deposit fees
and hereby setting fees and deposits for residential meters as listed. Deposits
will vary with classification of service. The water deposit of $75 will be for
water service only and for both water and gas service the minimum deposit will
be $200 for homes and residences for example.
(1999 Code, § 52.05) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-19-2010; Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-15-
2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-4-2024) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 RATES AND BILLING.
   (A)   Water rates. For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of
the water well system of the city and for other purposes, there is hereby
established a schedule of fees and charges for the use of water of the city as
follows. For each dwelling, public building, commercial or industrial
establishment or other entity to the municipal water system and which is
connected to the municipal water system of the city; the following schedule is
hereby established:
      (1)   Minimum charge up through 3,000 gallons: $28.60;
      (2)   One dollar, thirty-five cents per thousand gallons for the next
5,000 gallons increase thereafter;
      (3)   An additional $0.10 per thousand gallons per each 5,000 gallons
increase thereafter;
      (4)   An additional 10% will be added to businesses and residences lying
outside the city limits who utilize the municipal water supply;
      (5)   Three thousand, five hundred dollars of all gross receipts for
collection of water, sewer and garbage shall be set aside monthly in the
Capital Improvement Garbage Fund and $5,000 of collections from water, sewer
and garbage shall be set aside monthly for the Capital Improvement Fund as
designated by motion of the City Council on June 6, 2019. Two thousand, five
hundred dollars of all gross receipts for collection of water, sewer and
garbage shall be set aside monthly in the Capital Improvement Water Fund
starting July 1, 2024; and
      (6)   The City Council will reevaluate rates annually to ensure needs of
the present and the future is met.
   (B)   (1)   No free water. No person, firm, corporation or other entity
shall be provided water free, but all shall be charged for water at the rates
herein established or hereafter established by ordinance.
      (2)   The minimum will increase 5% every year thereafter for five years
(2025 through 2029) and change the usage rate per 1,000 gallons used above the
3,000 minimum by $0.25 per 1,000 gallons each usage tier.
   (C)   Bills due when; delinquency.
      (1)   Bills will be mailed to customers near the first of each month
following the service month when the service was rendered. Payment is due on
the tenth of the month.
      (2)   (a)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a 5% late fee
will be added and a second bill will be mailed containing a cut-off notice that
if the bill is not paid within ten days of the mailing of the second bill,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment; and
         (b)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (3)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (4)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge.
      (5)   The city has a night drop located on the front of the municipal
building and online pay is also available for customer’s convenience. An
administrative fee of 3% will be added to all credit card transactions.
      (6)   If service is disconnected for non-pay, the charge to reconnect
utility is $100. This is in addition to the bill amount including the late fee.
      (7)   In the event a customer’s water is disconnected for non-pay, and
after the third disconnect of utilities, a deposit of $100 will be required to
restore service.
      (8)   After regular office hours ending at 5:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday and before regular office hours beginning at 8:00 a.m. Monday through
Friday including holidays and days closed for official reasons, the after-hour
fee to turn the water on again will be $50 plus the $100 reconnect fee.
(1999 Code, § 52.06) (Ord. 122, passed 3-24-2000; Ord. 139A, passed 8-16-2004;
Ord. 142, passed - -2006; Ord. 2008-7, passed 8-23-2008; Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-
15-2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 52.07 TURNING WATER OFF.
   (A)   Water may be cut off. Water may be cut off and service discontinued
for any user for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation of any ordinance provision relating to the water system,
or violation of any ordinance provision or any provision of any code adopted by
reference relating to water and sanitary plumbing;
      (2)   Failure to pay a water bill or other proper charge in connection
with the water system or the sewer use fee by the time specified by ordinance;
or
      (3)   Any act or omission in regard to the water system or sanitary sewer
system, the use of water or the disposal of liquid wastes which jeopardizes the
public health or safety, creates a public nuisance or interferes with the
rights of others.
   (B)   City may cut off service. The city reserves the right to cut off water
service to any customer when necessary for the public welfare.
(1999 Code, § 52.07) (Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 52.08 TURNING WATER ON AFTER SHUTOFF; FEE.
   When a customer’s water service has been cut off because of a delinquency or
an act or omission of the customer, as provided by ordinance, it may be turned
on again only when all charges have been paid or another change in the
conditions justifies it. A charge of $100 shall be made for turning the water
on again. After regular office hours ending at 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
and before regular office hours beginning at 8:00 a.m. Monday through Friday
including holidays and days closed for official reasons, the after-hour fee to
turn the water on again will be $150.
(1999 Code, § 52.08) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 7-7-2008; Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-19-
2010)
§ 52.09 DUTIES OF CUSTOMERS.
   All consumers using city water shall keep their service pipes, stop cocks
and other water apparatus in good repair and in proper operation, and shall not
unnecessarily waste water.
(1999 Code, § 52.09) (Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 52.10 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   The city shall not be responsible for any damages due to stoppage or
interruption of water service.
(1999 Code, § 52.10) (Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 52.11 INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Superintendent and other city personnel in the service of the city water
system may enter any private premises served by the city water system at any
reasonable times and inspect the water pipes and fixtures on the premises.
(1999 Code, § 52.11) (Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 52.12 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS, PIPES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by city
personnel, to open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to
or connect anything with any fire hydrant belonging to the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant
by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or any other thing, or to do
so in any other manner.
   (C) It is unlawful for any person to damage, destroy or tamper with any
pipes, meters or other equipment or property which is a part of the city water
system.
(1999 Code, § 52.12) (Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 COMMUNITY GARDENS.
   For the purpose of providing a plot of land to be used by citizens of the
city for growing a garden and using the water from the city water meter, there
is hereby established a fee for the use:
   (A)   Anyone wishing to use a plot of land set aside for a community gardens
area must apply at City Hall for a plot and for each and every year to give
everyone the opportunity to use the garden spot if desired; and
   (B)   A fee of $50 shall be paid to the city before the plot is used and the
citizen will therefore follow all rules for clearing the plot of land after the
growing season has ended and to be conscious of water usage as far as waste.
(Ord. 2007-2, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of §§
52.07 and
52.08 shall remain the same as reflected in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-19-2010; Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-1,
passed 4-4-2024)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
   
53.01   Sanitary sewer system as public utility
   
53.02   Definition
   
53.03   Fees and deposits
   
53.04   Rates and billing
§ 53.01 SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM AS PUBLIC UTILITY.
   The sanitary sewer system of the city is hereby declared to be a public
utility and a proper source of revenue for the upkeep and maintenance of said
system and for other purposes.
(1999 Code, § 53.01)
§ 53.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SEWAGE. All matter and material placed in the sanitary sewers of the city.
(1999 Code, § 53.02)
§ 53.03 FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Tap inspection fee. There shall be a tap inspection fee in an amount
to be determined from time to time by the city for each tap made to the city
sewer lines.
   (B)   Dormant utility deposits.
      (1)   Charge levied on dormant utility deposits. The annual service
charge on each dormant utility deposit in the amount of $5 per year is
repealed.
      (2)   “Dormant utility deposit” defined. A DORMANT UTILITY DEPOSIT is
defined as any utility deposit remaining on deposit with the city for a period
of one year or more without any charges being incurred by the utility customer
for said customer’s utility usage.
(1999 Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 2007-5, passed - -2008)
§ 53.04 RATES AND BILLING.
   (A)   Sewer use fee. For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance
of the sanitary sewer system of the city and for other purposes, there is
hereby established a schedule of fees and charges for the use of the sanitary
system of the city, as follows:
      (1)   For each dwelling, public building or commercial establishment to
which water is metered by the municipal water system and which is connected to
the city sewage disposal system of the city, a fee of $15 per month; and
      (2)   Three thousand five hundred dollars of all gross receipts for
collection of water, sewer and garbage shall be set aside in the Capital
Improvement Garbage Fund; $5,000 for collection of water, sewer and garbage
shall be set aside in the Capital Improvement Fund as designated by the motion
of City Council members.
   (B)   Collection. The fee for the use of the sanitary sewer system as hereby
established shall be billed to each user monthly, along with the bill for water
and other services, and the City Clerk is directed not to accept payment of the
water bill unless such payment be accompanied by the payment of the sewer use
fee.
   (C)   Disposition of funds. The funds derived from such fee shall be
deposited in the general revenues of the city, to be used for the upkeep,
maintenance, extension and repair of the sanitary sewer system.
(1999 Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 55, passed 10-6-1981; Ord. 76, passed 8-17-1987;
Ord. 99, passed 10-4-1993; Ord. 106-A, passed 11-21-1995; Ord. 137, passed 7-
10-2002; Ord. 143, passed 8-23-2006; Ord. 2020-7, passed 10-8-2020)
CHAPTER 54: GAS
Section
   
54.01   Gas rates
§ 54.01 GAS RATES.
   (A)   Generally. For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of
the gas distribution system and for other purposes, there is hereby established
a schedule of fees and charges for the use of the gas system of the city as
follows.
   (B)   Rates.
      (1)   For each dwelling, public building, commercial establishment or
other entity connected to the municipal gas system and the municipal water
system of the city, the following schedule is hereby established.
Commercial service: the following rates (excluding gas costs) apply to
service through one meter
Commercial service: the following rates (excluding gas costs) apply to
service through one meter
   First  Base rate per month                   $15 plus
   Next   1-30 CCF per monthly billing period @ $0.33 plus
   Next   470 CCF per monthly billing period @  $0.30 plus
   Remainder                                    $0.26
Industrial service: the following rates (excluding gas costs) apply to
service through one meter
   First  Base rate per month                   $30 plus
   Next   1-30 CCF per monthly billing period @ $0.33 plus
   Next   470 CCF per monthly billing period @  $0.30 plus
   Remainder                                    $0.26
Public Authority service: the following rates (excluding gas costs) apply to
service through one meter
   First  Base rate per month                   $20 plus
   Next   1-30 CCF per monthly billing period @ $0.33 plus
   Next   470 CCF per monthly billing period @  $0.30 plus
   Remainder                                    $0.26
Residential service: the following rates (excluding gas costs) apply to
service through one meter
   First  Base rate per month                   $8 plus
   Next   1-30 CCF per monthly billing period @ $0.33 plus
   Remainder                                    $0.30
 
      (2)   In addition to the above rates, the bill will include the cost of
purchased gas in accordance with the provisions of agreement between city and
the supplier. Also in addition to above rates, there will be a variable
conversion factor to compensate for the MCF to MMBTU conversion, meter loss
factor, and line loss.
   (C)   Deposits.
      (1)   Residential. Every applicant for residential gas service shall make
a deposit of $125 with the City Clerk, or present a letter of credit from a gas
utility company at their previous place of residence, showing they have a good
credit history, and such applicant shall not be granted gas service until they
have paid to the City Clerk such deposit, or presented a letter of credit. The
deposit shall serve as a guarantee for the payment of charges for gas service
and other amounts owed to the city in connection with such service. When such
customer’s service is disconnected, the deposit or any part of such amount
deposited which remains after all such charges and amounts due the city have
been satisfied, shall be returned to the customer. A charge of $25 shall be
made for a service charge to turn a customer’s gas on. When the customer’s gas
service accounts have been maintained current and fully paid for a period of
one year, the City Clerk shall return the gas service deposit to the customer.
      (2)   Commercial. Every applicant for commercial gas service shall make a
deposit of $350 plus a fee of $25 with the City Clerk for a service charge to
turn a customer’s gas on. For commercial customers only, the $350 deposit fee
could be reduced to a $200 deposit fee with a letter of good credit. When the
customer’s gas service accounts have been maintained current and fully paid for
a period of one year, the City Clerk shall return the gas service deposit to
the customer.
   (D)   Billing.
      (1)   Bills will be mailed to customers near the first of each month.
Payment is due on the tenth of the month.
      (2)   If it is after the tenth of the month and the customer has not paid
the bill, a late notice will be mailed to the customer informing them that
their payment has not been received. The customer will then have another ten
days to pay the bill. Upon the twentieth of the month, service will be
disconnected for non-pay.
      (3)   A charge of 5% will be added to the bill if not paid within ten
days after the first day of the month following the month of billing.
   (E)   Disconnected services.
      (1)   If service is disconnected for non-pay, the charge to reconnect
utilities is $100 each (gas and water). This is in addition to the bill amount,
including the late fee.
      (2)   In the event a customer’s utilities are disconnected for non-pay
after the third consecutive disconnect of utilities, a deposit of $125 for each
utility will be required to restore gas service.
      (3)   A charge of $50 shall be made for a service charge to turn a
customer’s gas on after business hours and on weekends. This charge is in
addition to the reconnect fee of $100.
(Ord. 123-99-00, passed 5-15-2000; Ord. 129, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 2010-1,
passed 1-5-2010; Ord. 2019-5, passed 8-1-2019; Ord. 2020-3, passed 2-11-2020)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Adoption of State Highway Safety Code
   
70.02   Definitions
Traffic Administration
   
70.10   Duty of Police Department and Fire Department
   
70.11   Emergency and experimental regulations
Licenses
   
70.20   Driver’s license required
   
70.21   Vehicle license required
   
70.22   Prohibited authorization of unlicensed driving
Accident Reports
   
70.35   Accident reports
Vehicle Types and Equipment
   
70.45   Vehicles injurious to streets
   
70.46   Obstructive and dangerous vehicles; permits
   
70.47   Equipment required and prohibited
   
70.48   Mufflers and cut-outs
   
70.49   Width, height, length, weight and load
   
70.50   Inspection of vehicles
   
70.51   Noise
Citations
   
70.65   Citations tags
   
70.66   Failure to comply with citation tag
   
70.67   Presumption of identity of parking violator
   
70.68   Complaint; warrant for arrest
   
70.69   Impoundment and redemption
   
70.98   Violations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Obedience to Traffic Title, see §§
71.001 through
71.006
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of code. For the purpose of the safety of the citizens, the
City Council hereby adopts the Motor Vehicles Highway Safety Code (47 O.S. §§
1-101 et seq.).
   (B)   Authority of Police Department. The City Council hereby gives
authority to the Police Department, Police Chief and patrol officers to enforce
this code and issue citations for violations.
   (C)   Authority of Municipal Judge. The city also directs the Municipal
Judge to follow the code, as the law allows for a municipality.
(1999 Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 90, passed 5-4-1992)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of fire departments, ambulances,
county sheriff vehicles of sheriffs and full-time commissioned deputies and
police vehicles, including vehicles owned and operated by the U.S. Marshals
Service, the Federal Bureau of Investigation or any local organization for
civil defense. Such vehicles shall be equipped as set forth in 47 O.S. § 1-103.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is more than 20 inches in
diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and
used for the transportation of persons and every motor vehicle, other than a
taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not
limited to, hotels, banks, office buildings, railroad stations and public
buildings which occupy at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet
collectively on both sides of the highway.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel. The words HIGHWAY and STREET are synonymous
herein.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails; provided, however, that this definition shall not include
implements of husbandry, as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-125.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor or motorized bicycle.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, barricades, signals, markings
and devices not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority
of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Municipal Police Department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein refers to any
such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE or ISLAND. An area or space officially set apart within a
roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so
marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times
while set apart as a SAFETY ZONE or ISLAND.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STOP or STOPPING.
      (1)   When required, means complete cessation from movement.
      (2)   When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control sign or signal.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from an intersecting highway is required by law to yield the right-of-
way to vehicles on such THROUGH HIGHWAY in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this chapter.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of a quarter of a
mile or more.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1999 Code, § 70.02)
Statutory reference:
   Similar and additional definitions, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 through 1-186
TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION
§ 70.10 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT AND FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Police Department to enforce the street traffic
regulations of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in this city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the
Department by this title and any other traffic ordinances of this city.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or such officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand
or signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances, provided that in the
event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions
may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or other
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in
the immediate vicinity.
(1999 Code, § 70.10)
§ 70.11 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby empowered
to make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of this city and to
make temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions.
      (2)   No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than 90 days.
   (B)   The City Council may have traffic-control devices tested under actual
conditions of traffic.
(1999 Code, § 70.11)
LICENSES
§ 70.20 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person who does not have a driver’s license as
required by state law for operation of a motor vehicle upon the state highways
to operate a motor vehicle within the city.
(1999 Code, § 70.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of the city
without a state vehicle license as may be required by law or to fail to display
the state vehicle license as may be required by law.
(1999 Code, § 70.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 PROHIBITED AUTHORIZATION OF UNLICENSED DRIVING.
   It is unlawful for any person to authorize or knowingly permit a motor
vehicle owned by him or her, or under his or her control, to be driven upon any
street in the city by any person who is not authorized or licensed to drive a
motor vehicle under the laws of this state or under the laws of the state of
the driver’s residence.
(1999 Code, § 70.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
ACCIDENT REPORTS
§ 70.35 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person, or in which it is
apparent that damage to one vehicle or other property is in excess of $300
shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a police officer or to
the Police Department.
   (B)   Making out a written report of the accident in the office of the
Police Department as soon as practicable after the accident to be forwarded to
the Department of Public Safety of the state, in accordance with law, shall
also be deemed compliance with this section.
(1999 Code, § 70.35) Penalty, see §
70.99
VEHICLE TYPES AND EQUIPMENT
§ 70.45 VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS.
   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street.
(1999 Code, § 70.45) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.46 OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES; PERMITS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
Chief of Police and in accordance with the terms of such permit.
(1999 Code, § 70.46) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.47 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED AND PROHIBITED.
   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped as
required by law, and it is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the
city which is not equipped as required by law. It is also unlawful to fail to
use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it in a manner
prohibited by law. It is also unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment
prohibited by law upon a street of the city.
(1999 Code, § 70.47) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.48 MUFFLERS AND CUT-OUTS.
   No motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine shall be operated within
the city unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler, and no muffler cut-out or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall
be used on any motor vehicle while operating within the city, except that
exhaust whistles may be used on authorized emergency vehicles.
(1999 Code, § 70.48) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.49 WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH, WEIGHT AND LOAD.
   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the Chief of
Police.
(1999 Code, § 70.49) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.50 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon
the streets of the city at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it
is properly equipped and/or whether its equipment is in proper adjustment and
repair.
(1999 Code, § 70.50)
§ 70.51 NOISE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to use a “Jake Brake” or other similar
“compression brake”, “engine brake”, “transmission brake” or other device used
to slow a vehicle by means other than regular brakes, which causes a noise
through the vehicles exhaust system within the city limits of the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to sponsored activities of the city, the
Hooker Chamber of Commerce, the Hooker Main Street Program or the Hooker School
System.
(1999 Code, § 70.51) (Ord. 94, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 114, passed 2-3-1997; Ord.
114-A, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 118, passed 12-1-1997; Ord. 2011-1, passed 6-6-
2011; Ord. 2019-8, passed 7-9-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
CITATIONS
§ 70.65 CITATIONS TAGS.
   (A)   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this title by delivering citation tags to violators or,
in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation of
this chapter, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred. Such citation tags, among other things, shall indicate
briefly the charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle, and
shall direct the violator to present the tag at the police station or other
designated place within five days or such other reasonable time as may be
specified thereon. Nothing in this section shall abridge the power to arrest
any violator and to take him or her into custody, or to file a complaint
against him or her, at any time.
   (B)   The City Council may require that the police officers use citation
tags furnished by the City Clerk and that such tags be serially numbered, and
may regulate the use and handling of citation tags.
(1999 Code, § 70.65)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Court; violations and Violations Bureau, see §
35.051
§ 70.66 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CITATION TAG.
   If a violator of any provision of this title who has been given a citation
tag as provided above, fails to appear in accordance with the instructions on
such tag, the Chief of Police or his or her authorized agent shall send to the
owner of the vehicle involved a letter or other written notice informing the
owner of the violation and warning the owner to appear as directed and that, in
the event such letter or notice is disregarded for a period of ten days, a
complaint will be filed and warrant of arrest issued, provided that nothing in
this section shall abridge the power to file a complaint against the owner
prior to the expiration of such time.
(1999 Code, § 70.66)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Court; summons, see §
35.052
§ 70.67 PRESUMPTION OF IDENTITY OF PARKING VIOLATOR.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
   (B)   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure
of giving a citation tag has been followed.
(1999 Code, § 70.67)
§ 70.68 COMPLAINT; WARRANT FOR ARREST.
   In the event any person fails to comply with a citation tag given to such
person or attached to a vehicle, the Chief of Police shall have a complaint
entered against such person before the Municipal Judge, and the Municipal Judge
shall issue a warrant for his or her arrest.
(1999 Code, § 70.68)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Court; warrant for arrest, see §
35.053
§ 70.69 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove a
vehicle from a street to a garage or other place of safety under any of the
circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct or
causeway, or in any tube or tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic;
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury or otherwise incapacitated to such an extent as to
be unable to provide for its custody or removal;
      (3)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic;
      (4)   When any vehicle has been parked for more than one hour in excess
of the time allowed for parking in any place; and
      (5)   When any vehicle which has been involved in two or more violations
of this title for which citation tags have been issued and not presented as
required is parked in violation of any provision of this title.
   (B)   A vehicle impounded as provided herein shall be delivered back to the
owner or other person to whom it may properly be delivered only after such fine
or fines and costs as may be properly assessed by the Municipal Judge for the
violation or violations for which such vehicle was impounded, and any
reasonable costs of or charges for impounding and storage, shall have been
paid.
(1999 Code, § 70.70)
§ 70.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any act
forbidden, or to fail to perform any act required, in this title.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a parent of a child or the guardian of a ward to
authorize or knowingly to permit any such child or ward to violate any
provision of this title.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to authorize or
knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his, her or its name to be driven
or to stand or to be parked in violation of any provision of this title.
(1999 Code, § 70.98) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic violations, see §
35.051
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, any person, firm or corporation who
violates any provision of this title, or performs any unlawful act as defined
in this title, or fails to perform any act required in this title, is guilty of
an offense against the city, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Penalty for violation of §
70.51 shall be a fine of $150.
(1999 Code, § 70.99) (Ord. 94, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 114, passed 2-3-1997; Ord.
114-A, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 2011-1, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. passed 6-6-2017)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Obedience to Traffic Title
   
71.001   Required obedience to traffic title
   
71.002   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
   
71.003   Persons propelling push carts, riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles to obey traffic regulations
   
71.004   Persons working on streets; exceptions
   
71.005   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.006   Public officers and employees to obey traffic regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
71.020   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
71.021   Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices
   
71.022   Obedience to official traffic-control devices
   
71.023   When traffic signs required for enforcement purposes
   
71.024   Traffic-control signal legend
   
71.025   Pedestrian-control signals
   
71.026   Flashing signals
   
71.027   Pedestrian-actuated school crossing signals
   
71.028   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings
   
71.029   Interference with official control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
71.030   Traffic lanes
Driving on Right Side of Roadway, Overtaking and Passing, and the Like
   
71.040   Drive on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.041   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.042   Overtaking a vehicle on the left
   
71.043   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
71.044   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.045   Further limitations on driving to left of center of roadway
   
71.046   No-passing zones
   
71.047   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.048   Following too closely
   
71.049   Controlled-access roadways
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
71.060   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys
   
71.061   Direction of traffic
   
71.062   Rotary traffic islands
Right-of-Way
   
71.075   Vehicle approaching or entering intersection
   
71.076   Vehicle turning left at intersection
   
71.077   Vehicle entering stop intersection
   
71.078   Vehicle entering yield intersection
   
71.079   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.080   Through streets
   
71.081   Other intersections where stop or yield required
   
71.082   Two or more vehicles facing stop, slow, warning or caution signal
   
71.083   Stop when traffic obstructed
Pedestrians’ Rights and Duties
   
71.095   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals
   
71.096   Pedestrians’ right-of-way in crosswalks
   
71.097   Crossing at right angles
   
71.098   When pedestrian shall yield
   
71.099   Prohibited crossing
   
71.100   Obedience of pedestrians to railroad signals
   
71.101   Drivers to exercise due care
   
71.102   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
71.103   Pedestrians walking along roadways
   
71.104   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
Turning Movements; Signals on Turning and Stopping
   
71.115   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers
   
71.116   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
71.117   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
71.118   Limitations on turning around
   
71.119   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.120   Moving from parked position
   
71.121   Turning movements and required signals
   
71.122   Signals by hand and arm or signal lamps
Stop and Yield Miscellaneous Regulations
   
71.135   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train
   
71.136   Certain vehicles to stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.137   Stop signs and yield signs
   
71.138   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
Speed Regulations
   
71.150   Basic rule and maximum limits
Reckless Driving; Driving While Intoxicated or Under Influence of Drugs
   
71.160   Reckless driving
   
71.161   Careless or negligent driving, stopping or parking
   
71.162   Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or of drugs
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
71.175   Limitations on backing
   
71.176   Motor scooters and the like
   
71.177   Obstruction to driver’s view and/or driving mechanism
   
71.178   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
71.179   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
71.180   Crossing fire hose
   
71.181   Dangerous objects in streets
   
71.182   Funeral processions, parades and the like
   
71.183   Driving on sidewalks
   
71.184   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles
   
71.185   Riding in non-passenger areas
   
71.186   Texting while driving
Special Zones, Streets and Routes
   
71.200   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
71.201   Driving through safety zone prohibited
   
71.202   Maintenance and construction zones
   
71.203   Play streets
   
71.204   Truck routes
 
   
71.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Adoption of State Highway Safety Code, see §
70.01
Traffic violations, see §
35.051
Statutory reference:
   Traffic regulations, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC TITLE
§ 71.001 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC TITLE.
   It is an offense against the city for any person to do any act forbidden or
fail to perform any act required in this title.
(1999 Code, § 71.001) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.002 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(1999 Code, § 71.002) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSH CARTS, RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(1999 Code, § 71.003)
§ 71.004 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title, except
those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not
apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair
of public utilities, provided that all highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flagpersons,
but the provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work.
(1999 Code, § 71.004)
§ 71.005 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to
the conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of
Chapters 71,
72 and
73;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of audible and
visual signals as required by law, except that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light
visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(1999 Code, § 71.005) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.006 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of
Chapters 71,
72 and
73 shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the service of
the United States government, any state, county, city or other governmental
unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles, and it is unlawful for any such
driver to violate any of the provisions of this title, except as otherwise
permitted in this title or by state statute, provided that this title shall not
apply to the military forces of the United States and organizations of the
National Guard when performing any military duty.
(1999 Code, § 71.006) Penalty, see §
71.999
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.020 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, shall have placed and maintained
traffic-control signs, signals and devices when and as required under the
traffic ordinances of this city to make effective the provisions of such
ordinances, and may have placed and maintained such additional traffic-control
signs, signals and devices as it may deem necessary to regulate traffic under
the traffic ordinances of this city or under state law or to guide or warn
traffic.
(1999 Code, § 71.020)
§ 71.021 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the State Highway Department. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable
be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic-control
devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or
this chapter shall be official traffic- control devices.
(1999 Code, § 71.021)
§ 71.022 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this title or law, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in this title.
(47 O.S. § 11-201(a)) (1999 Code, § 71.022) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.023 WHEN TRAFFIC SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
(47 O.S. § 11-201(b)) (1999 Code, § 71.023)
§ 71.024 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “Go”, “Caution” or “Stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used, and the terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Green alone or “Go” shall require obedience as
follows.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign or barricade at such place prohibits either
such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone. Steady yellow alone shall require obedience as
follows.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “Stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Steady red alone or “Stop”. Steady red alone, or “Stop” shall require
obedience as follows.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until green or “Go” is
shown alone, provided that after making such stop, vehicles near the right-hand
edge or curb of the roadway may cautiously turn right on red when authorized by
an official sign but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully
within a crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown alone or until authorized so to do by a pedestrian
“Walk” signal.
   (D)   Steady red with green arrow. Steady red with green arrow shall require
obedience as follows.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown alone or until authorized so to do by pedestrian “Walk”
signal.
   (E)   Signals not at intersections. In the event an official traffic-control
signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the
provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions
which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made
at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made,
but, in the absence of any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the
signal.
(1999 Code, § 71.024) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.025 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Wait” or “Don’t Walk” are in place, such signals shall require obedience as
follows.
   (A)   “Walk”. “Walk” shall require as follows. Pedestrians facing such
signal may proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal and shall
be given the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Wait” or “Don’t Walk”. “Wait” or “Don’t Walk” shall require as
follows. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction of
such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her crossing
on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the wait
signal is showing.
(47 O.S. § 11-203) (1999 Code, § 71.025) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.026 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(47 O.S. § 11-204) (1999 Code, § 71.026) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.027 PEDESTRIAN-ACTUATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS.
   Whenever a pedestrian-actuated school crossing signal is provided, it
requires obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Flashing yellow. When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes:
      (1)   Drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or pass such signal only with caution; and
      (2)   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
actuate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone. A steady yellow alone shall mean or require as
follows:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the signal when
the red or “Stop” signal is exhibited; and
      (2)   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which the
signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
   (C)   Steady red. Steady red shall mean or require as follows:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, then before
passing the signal or entering the intersection, and shall remain standing
until flashing yellow is shown alone; and
      (2)   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal,
and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (D)   Steady red and steady yellow combined. Steady red and steady yellow
combined shall mean or require as follows:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone; and
      (2)   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal-controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her crossing
shall proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island, and shall be given the
right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
(47 O.S. § 11-205) (1999 Code, § 71.027) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.028 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway an unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or
is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad
sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which
projects any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign, signal or device bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private property
adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information and of a
type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and the city is hereby empowered to remove
the same without notice.
(47 O.S. § 11-206) (1999 Code, § 71.028) Penalty, see §
71.999
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 96
§ 71.029 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof.
(47 O.S. § 11-207) (1999 Code, § 71.029) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.030 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to
have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway of any street where a regular
alignment of traffic is necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
(1999 Code, § 71.030) Penalty, see §
71.999
DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY, OVERTAKING AND PASSING, AND THE LIKE
§ 71.040 DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(47 O.S. § 11-301) (1999 Code, § 71.040) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.041 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(47 O.S. § 11-302) (1999 Code, § 71.041) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.042 OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of his
or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   Every driver who intends to pass another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction which requires moving his or her vehicle from one lane of
traffic to another, shall first see that such movement can be made with safety
and shall proceed to pass only after giving a proper signal by hand or
mechanical device.
(47 O.S. § 11-303) (1999 Code, § 71.042) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.043 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-304) (1999 Code, § 71.043) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.044 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the roadway
before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction.
(47 O.S. § 11-305) (1999 Code, § 71.044) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.045 FURTHER LIMITATIONS ON DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing an intersection
or railroad grade crossing; or
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-306) (1999 Code, § 71.045) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.046 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The State Department of Highways, as regards state and federal
highways, and the City Council, as regards all other streets, are hereby
authorized to determine those portions of a highway where overtaking and
passing or driving to the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous,
and shall by appropriate signs or markings on the roadway have the beginning
and end of such zones indicated. When such signs or markings are in place and
clearly visible to an ordinarily observant person, every driver of a vehicle
shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) above, no driver shall at any time drive to the left
side of the roadway within such no-passing zone or on the left side of any
pavement striping designed to mark such no-passing zone throughout its length.
(47 O.S. § 11-306) (1999 Code, § 71.046) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.047 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle
where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of traffic
within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or where such center
lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction
the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(47 O.S. § 11-309) (1999 Code, § 71.047) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.048 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
(47 O.S. § 11-310) (1999 Code, § 71.048) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.049 CONTROLLED-ACCESS ROADWAYS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(47 O.S. § 11-312) (1999 Code, § 71.049) Penalty, see §
71.999
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 71.060 AUTHORITY TO SIGN ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever the Council by motion or resolution designates any street or alley
or part thereof as a one-way street or alley, the city shall have placed and
maintained signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be
effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(47 O.S. § 11-308) (1999 Code, § 71.060)
§ 71.061 DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts of
alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
(47 O.S. § 11-308) (1999 Code, § 71.061) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.062 ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only to the
right of such island.
(47 O.S. § 11-308) (1999 Code, § 71.062) Penalty, see §
71.999
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.075 VEHICLE APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
highway, provided that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state
or federal highway shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has
entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The right-of-way rules declared in divisions (A) and (B) above are
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this title.
(47 O.S. § 11-401) (1999 Code, § 71.075) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.076 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this title, may make such left turn, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite
direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(47 O.S. § 11-402) (1999 Code, § 71.076) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.077 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
(47 O.S. § 11-403(b))
   (B)   Such driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on the highway as to constitute an immediate hazard, but
the driver having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so
proceeding.
(47 O.S. § 11-703(d))
(1999 Code, § 71.077) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.078 VEHICLE ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in obedience to
such sign slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or shall
stop if necessary, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving, and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding; provided, however, that if such driver is involved in a collision
with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection after driving
past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his or her failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-403(c)) (1999 Code, § 71.078) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.079 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this
state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal or red-flashing lights, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to require a peace officer
operating a police vehicle properly and lawfully in response to a crime in
progress to use audible signals, nor shall this section operate to relieve the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the highway.
(47 O.S. § 11-405) (1999 Code, § 71.079) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.080 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Through streets may be designated. The Council, by motion or
resolution, may designate any street or part of a street a through street.
   (B)   Signs required at through streets. Whenever the Council so designates
and describes a through street, the city shall have placed and maintained a
stop sign, or if deemed more appropriate at any intersection a yield sign, on
each and every street intersecting such through street unless traffic at any
such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control signals;
provided, however, that at the intersection of two such through streets or at
the intersection of a through street and a heavy-traffic street not so
designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of said
streets as may be determined by the City Council if deemed desirable.
(1999 Code, § 71.080)
§ 71.081 OTHER INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine
and designate intersections where particular hazard exists upon other than
through streets and to determine:
   (A)   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place where a stop is required; or
   (B)   Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection as prescribed in §
71.083(A), in which event it shall cause to be erected a yield sign at every
place where obedience thereto is required.
(1999 Code, § 71.081) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.082 TWO OR MORE VEHICLES FACING STOP, SLOW, WARNING OR CAUTION SIGNAL.
   (A)   Where two or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs,
or signals on two or more intersecting cross streets, and are approaching so as
to enter the intersection at the same time, where each vehicle is required to
stop, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right-of-way.
   (B)   Where each vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the
right shall have the right-of-way.
   (C)   Where each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming
from the right shall have the right-of-way.
   (D)   Where one vehicle is required to stop and the other to slow or take
caution, the one slowing or taking caution shall have the right-of-way.
   (E)   Where one vehicle is required to slow and the other to take caution,
the one required to take caution shall have the right-of-way.
   (F)   In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the intersection
shall have the right-of-way over one which has not so entered the intersection.
(1999 Code, § 71.082) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.083 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(1999 Code, § 71.083) Penalty, see §
71.999
PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHTS AND DUTIES
§ 71.095 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as declared
elsewhere in this title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted
those rights and be subject to the restrictions stated in this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 71.095)
§ 71.096 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield.
   (C)   Division (A) above shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
71.098(B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(47 O.S. § 11-502) (1999 Code, § 71.096)
§ 71.097 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(1999 Code, § 71.097) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.098 WHEN PEDESTRIAN SHALL YIELD.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated in §
71.099, when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain designated
places.
(47 O.S. § 11-503(a) and (b)) (1999 Code, § 71.098) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.099 PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
(47 O.S. § 11-503(c)) (1999 Code, § 71.099) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.100 OBEDIENCE OF PEDESTRIANS TO RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed.
(1999 Code, § 71.100) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.101 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subchapter, every driver of
a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon
any roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and
shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-504) (1999 Code, § 71.101) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.102 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(47 O.S. § 11-505) (1999 Code, § 71.102) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.103 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway
or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction,
and shall yield to approaching vehicles.
(47 O.S. § 11-506) (1999 Code, § 71.103) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.104 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, donation, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for
the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked
or about to be parked on a street or highway.
(1999 Code, § 71.104) Penalty, see §
71.999
TURNING MOVEMENTS; SIGNALS ON TURNING AND STOPPING
§ 71.115 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is authorized to have
placed markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating
the course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such
course to be traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other than as
prescribed by law or ordinance.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(1999 Code, § 71.115) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.116 AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine
those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right turn,
left turn or U-turn, and shall have placed proper signs at such intersections.
The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and
permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on
the signs, or they may be removed when such turns are permitted.
(1999 Code, § 71.116) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.117 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right turn or left
turn or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign.
(1999 Code, § 71.117) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.118 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any street in the city except at an
intersection; furthermore, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to make
such a turn at any intersection:
      (1)   Where traffic-control signals are installed;
      (2)   Where a police officer is directing traffic except at the latter’s
direction; or
      (3)   Where an official no-U-turn sign has been placed and is maintained.
   (B)   When otherwise permitted, a U-turn may be made only when it can be
made in safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (C)   Any vehicle shall not execute a left-hand turn to enter a diagonal
parking space, except upon one-way streets.
(1999 Code, § 71.118) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.119 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection, and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable,
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection.
   (C)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and after entering
the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
(47 O.S. § 11-601) (1999 Code, § 71.119) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.120 MOVING FROM PARKED POSITION.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(1999 Code, § 71.120) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.121 TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required by ordinance, or turn a
vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a
direct course, or move right or left upon a roadway, unless and until such
movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn any
vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein in
the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
   (D)   (1)   When any person is properly preparing for, attempting or
executing a left turn, as described in division (A) above, no other person
operating another vehicle immediately following the turning vehicle shall pass
or attempt to pass the turning vehicle to the left.
      (2)   Such other person shall come to a complete stop if necessary at a
safe distance behind the person preparing for, attempting or executing the turn
or may proceed to the right of the turning vehicle as provided by 47 O.S. § 11-
605 (§
71.122 of this code of ordinances).
(47 O.S. § 11-604) (1999 Code, § 71.121) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.122 SIGNALS BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either
by means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps, except as otherwise provided
in division (B) below.
   (B)   (1)   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with,
and the required signal shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance from
the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the
body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when the distance
from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body
or load thereof exceeds 14 feet.
      (2)   The latter measurement shall apply to any single vehicle, and also
to any combination of vehicles.
(47 O.S. § 11-605) (1999 Code, § 71.122) Penalty, see §
71.999
STOP AND YIELD MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 71.135 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered, or when a human flagperson gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such railroad
train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard; or
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(47 O.S. § 11-701) (1999 Code, § 71.135) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.136 CERTAIN VEHICLES TO STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of
any bus, as that term is defined in 47 O.S. § 1-105, owned and operated by a
licensed child care facility while carrying children, or any school bus
carrying any school child, or of any vehicle carrying explosive substances or
flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing at grade any
track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad, and while so stopped,
shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any approaching
train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, except as hereinafter
provided, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so safely. After
stopping as required herein and upon proceeding when it is safe to do so, the
driver of any such vehicle shall cross only in such gear of the vehicle that
there will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing such crossing,
and the driver shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (B)   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or a
traffic-control signal directs traffic to proceed.
(47 O.S. § 11-702) (1999 Code, § 71.136) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.137 STOP SIGNS AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   Every stop sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less
than eight inches in height.
      (2)   Every yield sign shall bear the word “Yield” in letters not less
than seven inches in height.
      (3)   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall at nighttime be rendered
luminous by internal illumination, or by a flood light projected on the face of
the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements in the face of the sign.
   (B)   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-704) (1999 Code, § 71.137) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.138 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway.
(1999 Code, § 71.138) Penalty, see §
71.999
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 71.150 BASIC RULE AND MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the highway, and
any other condition then existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead.
   (B)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A) above, the limits specified in this chapter or
established as hereinafter authorized shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no
person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum
limits as follows:
      (1)   Fifteen miles per hour on any street adjacent to any school between
8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on days when school is in session, except as otherwise
required by state authority; and
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour on other streets and on streets adjacent
to schools at other times than that specified immediately above, provided that
the Council by motion or resolution may reduce or increase this speed limit,
and when it does so, appropriate signs shall be placed on such streets or parts
of streets indicating the lower or higher speed limit.
(1999 Code, § 71.150) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Local authority to set speed limits, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-803 and 15-102
   Similar and additional provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-801
RECKLESS DRIVING; DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED OR UNDER INFLUENCE OF DRUGS
§ 71.160 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving, and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in §
71.999.
(47 O.S. § 11-901) (1999 Code, § 71.160) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.161 CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING, STOPPING OR PARKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be
parked, or stop any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner, or in such a
manner as to endanger life, limb, person or property, or as to interfere with
the lawful movement of traffic or use of the streets.
(1999 Code, § 71.161) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.162 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR OF DRUGS.
   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs to drive or be in actual physical control of any vehicle within
this city.
(1999 Code, § 71.162) Penalty, see §
71.999
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 71.175 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(1999 Code, § 71.175) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.176 MOTOR SCOOTERS AND THE LIKE.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor-driven cycle, including a
motor scooter or motor-driven bicycle, on a street in this city during a time
when state law prohibits the operation of such vehicle.
(1999 Code, § 71.176) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.177 OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER’S VIEW AND/OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(47 O.S. § 11-1104(a))
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(47 O.S. § 11-1104(b))
(1999 Code, § 71.177) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.178 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(47 O.S. § 11-1105) (1999 Code, § 71.178) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.179 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where a fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(47 O.S. § 11-1108(a)) (1999 Code, § 71.179) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.180 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(47 O.S. § 11-1109) (1999 Code, § 71.180) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.181 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed, or let fall
and remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass, stick or
other thing which is likely to injure persons or damage property, or to render
a street unsafe for traffic.
(1999 Code, § 71.181) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.182 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS, PARADES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Driving through funeral or other procession. No driver of a vehicle
shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously
designated as required herein. This provision shall not apply at intersections
where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or police officers.
   (B)   Drivers in a procession. Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practicable and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
   (C)   Funeral processions to be identified. A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the
outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by such
other method as may be determined and designated by the Police Department.
   (D)   When permits required for parades and processions. No funeral,
procession or parade containing 200 or more persons or 40 or more vehicles,
except the military forces of the United States and the military forces of this
state, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street except in accordance
with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and such other regulations as are
set forth herein which may apply.
(1999 Code, § 71.182) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.183 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or within any
sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(1999 Code, § 71.183) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.184 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(1999 Code, § 71.184) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.185 RIDING IN NON-PASSENGER AREAS.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to any person riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(1999 Code, § 71.185) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.186 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any
street or highway while using a hand-held electronic communication device to
manually compose, send or read an electronic text message while the motor
vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply if the person is
using the cellular telephone or electronic communication device for the sole
purpose of communicating with any of the following regarding an imminent
emergency situation:
      (1)   An emergency response operator;
      (2)   A hospital, physician’s office or health clinic;
      (3)   A provider of ambulance services;
      (4)   A provider of firefighting services; or
      (5)   A law enforcement agency.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 11-5-2015) Penalty, see §
71.999
SPECIAL ZONES, STREETS AND ROUTES
§ 71.200 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in its opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as it may deem necessary; and
   (B)   To establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(1999 Code, § 71.200)
§ 71.201 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone or
island.
(47 O.S. § 11-1301) (1999 Code, § 71.201) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.202 MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   City personnel or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the city, and city personnel and utility companies, when installing,
improving or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the City Council, to
close any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance
or construction and in exercising such authority shall erect or cause to be
erected proper control devices and barricades to warn and notify the public
that the street has been closed to traffic.
   (B)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) above and traffic-control devices or barricades have been erected,
it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through, under, over or
around such traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the
closed area, except that the provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
persons while engaged in such construction, maintenance and repair, or to
persons entering therein for the protection of lives or property, provided that
persons having their places of residence or places of business within the
closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their own
risk.
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the city personnel,
contractor or utility company concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected,
traffic-control devices to warn and guide the public, and every person using
such street shall obey all signs, signals, markings, flagpersons or other
traffic-control devices which are placed to regulate, control and guide traffic
through the construction or maintenance area.
(47 O.S. § 11-1302) (1999 Code, § 71.202)
§ 71.203 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   Authority to establish. The City Council, by motion or resolution,
shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play street and to
have placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping
to protect the same.
   (B)   Restrictions on use. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle
upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having
business or whose residences are within such closed area, and then any such
driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof.
(1999 Code, § 71.203) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.204 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   (1)   The Council, by motion or resolution, may prescribe routes
through the city for the use of trucks in general, or trucks of particular
kinds and/or other vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger vehicles,
passing through the city. The city shall see that appropriate and adequate
signs are placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow
the routes.
      (2)   When such signs are so erected and in place, the driver of a truck
or other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed as provided above, while
passing through the city, shall keep on such route and shall not deviate
therefrom except in case of emergency. Drivers of such vehicles shall follow
such routes so far as practicable also when driving within the city and not
merely through the city.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may prescribe truck traffic from
Highway 54 to Swem Street. There will be no right turns from northbound trucks
on Swem Street onto Panhandle Street. Truck traffic may travel on Highway 54 to
Panhandle Street and use northbound road on Jefferson Street or westbound road
on County Road 7 as routes through the city for the use of through trucks in
general, trucks of particular kinds and/or other vehicles which are not
ordinary private passenger vehicles, or local grain trucks, passing through the
city. Appropriate and adequate signs shall be placed along such routes so that
the drivers of such vehicles may follow the routes. When such signs are so
erected in place, the driver of a through truck or other vehicle for which a
route has been described, as stated above, while passing through the city,
shall keep such vehicles on such routes and shall not deviate therefrom except
in case of emergency. Drivers of such vehicles shall follow such routes so far
as practicable also while driving within the city and not merely through the
city.
      (2)   Violation of this section shall be a violation of the traffic
regulations of the city and fines and penalties for violations shall be set in
a manner as those for traffic regulations.
   (C)   With the exception of U.S. Highway 54 and designated truck routes, it
is unlawful for any person to drive or transport in any way, a semi-truck
(tractor) with a semi-transport trailer attached, to any residential area
within the city limits of the city with the exception of state, county or city
maintenance and emergency vehicles, passenger buses, residential moving,
commercial businesses located within the city (excluding from the exception
businesses located in houses or businesses located in buildings in which
someone resides), and local deliveries within the city.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to sponsored activities of the city, the
Hooker Chamber of Commerce, the Hooker Main Street Program or the Hooker School
System.
(1999 Code, § 71.204) (Ord. 95, passed 7-12-1993; Ord. passed 8-6-1993; Ord.
2011-1, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 2019-8, passed 7-9-2019) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this chapter the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of § 71.187 shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100. No court costs or
statutory fees shall be assessed.
   (C)   The penalty for violation of §
71.204 shall be a fine of $150.
(1999 Code, § 71.999) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 2015-4, passed 11-5-
2015; Ord. 2019-8, passed 7-9-2019)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Standing or parking close to curb
   
72.02   Brakes; motor not to be left running
   
72.03   Angle parking
   
72.04   Parking in spaces marked off
   
72.05   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in designated places
   
72.06   Parking in streets and alleys not to obstruct traffic
   
72.07   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.08   Parking time limits
   
72.09   Parking of trucks
   
72.10   Standing or parking on one-way streets
   
72.11   Nuisance vehicles prohibited
Loading and Unloading
   
72.25   Loading and unloading freight; permits
   
72.26   Curb loading zones for passengers and freight
   
72.27   Public carrier stops and stands
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Adoption of State Highway Safety Code, see §
70.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right-hand curb, provided that every vehicle stopped or parked
upon the left-hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs
shall be parked or stopped with the left-hand wheels parallel to and within 18
inches of the left-hand curb.
(47 O.S. § 11-1004(a) and (b)) (1999 Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 BRAKES; MOTOR NOT TO BE LEFT RUNNING.
   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked.
(1999 Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Signs or markings indicating angle parking. The City Council, by
motion or resolution, shall determine upon what streets and parts of streets
angle parking shall be permitted, and shall have such streets marked or signed.
   (B)   Obedience to angle-parking signs or markings. On those streets which
have been so signed or marked for angle parking, no person shall park or stand
a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated
by such signs or markings.
(1999 Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING IN SPACES MARKED OFF.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space.
(1999 Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or ordinance
or the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 14 feet of a fire hydrant except in a parking space
officially marked;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
city indicates a different length by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of said entrance when properly signposted;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass; and
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(1999 Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN STREETS AND ALLEYS NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(1999 Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose
of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
   (C)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle except repairs necessitated
by an emergency.
(1999 Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Parking time limits may be established; prohibitions.
      (1)   The Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to
establish parking time limits, or to prohibit parking, on designated streets
and parts of streets, by having appropriate signs placed thereon.
      (2)   When such signs are in place, it is unlawful for any person to park
a vehicle in violation thereof.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not affect parking limits established
for shorter periods.
(1999 Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 PARKING OF TRUCKS.
   (A)   Generally. The parking of trucks or tractors of semis will be allowed
in the owner’s driveway under certain conditions; the parking of such vehicles
may in no way constitute a hazard or dangerous condition to the general welfare
of the citizens’ of the city; may not obstruct any street, alley, public way or
right-of-way within the city; and may in no way obstruct the use of city
equipment and emergency equipment.
   (B)   Conditions under which tractors may be parked in driveways.
      (1)   The tractor must be owned by the resident;
      (2)   The tractor will not be allowed to idle for an extended period of
time;
      (3)   The owner needs neighbor’s approval;
      (4)   Parking is allowed in driveway only;
      (5)   No semi-trailers are allowed;
      (6)   A permit must be obtained from City Hall after proof of neighbor’s
approval;
      (7)   There will be a $20 annual fee due July 1 of each year; and
      (8)   Any violation of this section will void the permit to park.
   (C)   Vehicles prohibited from parking in driveways or on streets. Farm,
industrial, implements, machinery and/or equipment.
   (D)   Any abandoned or inoperable vehicle. ABANDONED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLE
is defined as any form of automobile, truck, trailer, tractor, motorcycle, bus,
van or any other type of vehicle which is junked, wrecked, inoperable,
incapable of moving on its own power, missing parts prohibiting it from being
moved, on jacks or blocks, not having a current registration plate on said
vehicle or absent any part of the vehicle necessary for the lawful operation of
the vehicle.
   (E)   Exception. This section shall not apply to sponsored activities of the
city, the Hooker Chamber of Commerce, the Hooker Main Street Program or the
Hooker School System.
(1999 Code, § 72.09) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 2019-8, passed 7-9-
2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs or
marks are placed to permit such standing or parking. The City Council, by
motion or resolution, is authorized to determine when standing or parking may
be permitted upon the left-hand side of any such one-way roadway and to have
signs or marks placed giving notice thereof.
(1999 Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 NUISANCE VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The parking, placing or leaving unattended of any vehicles or
equipment as described in this section on any street, alley, public way or
right-of-way within the city is hereby determined to constitute a nuisance, a
hazard to the general welfare of the citizens of the city, a dangerous
condition and obstruction to the safe use of the city streets and public right-
of-way, an obstruction to the use of the city equipment and emergency
equipment, an attractive nuisance to children and a cause of damage to the
roadway surface, and is, therefore, prohibited:
      (1)   Any type truck, tractor, semi-trailer, trailer, transport or other
motor vehicle or combinations thereof having a rating capacity of greater than
12,000 pounds G.V.W.;
      (2)   Any farm or industrial implements, machinery or equipment;
      (3)   Any abandoned or inoperable vehicles. An ABANDONED OR INOPERABLE
VEHICLE is defined as any form of automobile, truck, trailer, tractor,
motorcycle, bus, van or any other type of vehicle which is junked, wrecked,
inoperable, incapable of moving on its own power, missing parts prohibiting it
from being moved, on jacks or blocks, not having a current registration plate
on said vehicle, or absent any part of the vehicle necessary for the lawful
operation of the vehicle.
   (B)   Penalty for violation of division (A) above shall be as provided in §
72.99.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to or as an alternative to charging a person for a
violation of division (A) above, the law enforcement officer or agency serving
the city may remove the unattended or abandoned vehicle, machinery, equipment
or personal property described in division (A) above from the street, alley or
public way of the city immediately if the property interferes with normal city
street, alley or public way operations as set forth in the plan map on file at
the City Clerk’s office located as 111 S. Broadway or is a nuisance, and the
officer may impound the property and dispose of the same pursuant to the
current state statutory laws regarding abandoned vehicles on public highways,
which are currently set out in 47 O.S. §§ 901 through 906.4 et seq., as
amended.
      (2)   All other abandoned vehicles not described in division (A) above
may be impounded pursuant to the current state statutory law regarding
abandoned vehicles on public highways, which is currently set out in 47 O.S. §§
901 through 906.4 et seq., as amended.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to sponsored activities of the city, the
Hooker Chamber of Commerce, the Hooker Main Street Program or the Hooker School
System.
(1999 Code, § 72.11) (Ord. 114, passed 2-3-1997; Ord. 114-A, passed 6-2-1997;
Ord. 118, passed 12-1-1997; Ord. 2019-8, passed 7-9-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
LOADING AND UNLOADING
§ 72.25 LOADING AND UNLOADING FREIGHT; PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to issue special permits to permit the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to
the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the privilege as
therein stated and authorized herein. The City Council may revoke such permits
at any time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of any such permit.
(1999 Code, § 72.25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 CURB LOADING ZONES FOR PASSENGERS AND FREIGHT.
   (A)   Curb loading zones may be designated.
      (1)   The Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to
determine the location of passenger and freight curb loading zones, and shall
have placed and maintained appropriate signs indicating the same and stating
the hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable. By the
same authority, such loading zones may be changed or discontinued.
      (2)   When such a loading zone is established on request of any person,
the city shall not have signs placed until the applicant has paid to the city
an amount of money estimated by the Council to be adequate to reimburse the
city for all costs of establishing and signing the same.
   (B)   Standing in passenger curb loading zone. No person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a
passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations applicable to
such curb loading zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed
three minutes.
   (C)   Standing in freight curb loading zone.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick-up
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
      (2)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
(1999 Code, § 72.26) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.27 PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   (A)   Public carrier stops and stands may be designated. The Council, by
motion or resolution, is hereby authorized and required to establish bus stops,
bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common-carrier motor
vehicles on such public streets in such places and in such number as it
determines to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and
every such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab stand or other stops and stands may be
changed or discontinued.
   (B)   Stopping, standing and parking of buses and taxicabs regulated.
      (1)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
      (2)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street
at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their
baggage other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so
designated as provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
      (3)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or
passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when
stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with
the right front wheel of such vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb
and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the
movement of other vehicular traffic.
      (4)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
   (C)   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands. No person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a
taxicab stand, when any such stop or stand has been officially designated and
appropriately signed, except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may
temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any
bus or taxicab waiting to enter such zone.
(1999 Code, § 72.27) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this chapter the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
   (B)   (1)   The penalty for violation of §
72.09 shall be a fine in the amount of $90. Each day during, or on, which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served or ticket issued,
shall constitute an additional or separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to or as an alternative to charging a person for a
violation of §
72.09, the law enforcement officer or agency serving the city may remove the
unattended or abandoned vehicle, machinery, equipment or personal property
described in §
72.09 from the street, alley or public way of the city, or immediately if the
property interferes with normal city street, alley or public way operations as
set forth in the plat map on file at the City Clerk’s office located at 111 S.
Broadway, Hooker, Oklahoma; or is a nuisance, and the officer may impound the
property and dispose of the same pursuant to the current state statutory laws
regarding abandoned vehicles on public highways, which is currently set out in
47 O.S. §§ 901 through 911 et seq., as amended.
   (C)   The penalty for §
72.11 shall be a fine in an amount of $150. Each day during, or on, which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served or ticket issued
shall constitute an additional or separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 72.99) (Ord. 114, passed 2-3-1997; Ord. 114-A, passed 6-2-1997;
Ord. 118, passed 12-1-1997; Ord. 2011-1, passed 6-6-2011)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
73.02   Placement of recreational vehicles and the like
Bicycles
   
73.10   Effect of regulations
   
73.11   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.12   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.13   Riding on bicycle
   
73.14   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.15   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.16   Speed
   
73.17   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
73.18   Carrying articles
   
73.19   Parking
   
73.20   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.21   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
Operation of Golf Carts on Streets
   
73.40   Allowed use
   
73.41   Restrictions
   
73.42   Rights and duties
   
73.43   Motorcycles, mini-bikes and ATVs
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Adoption of State Highway Safety Code, see §
70.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play street
as authorized by ordinance of this city.
(1999 Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 PLACEMENT OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Placement and attachment restricted; exemptions. No recreational
vehicles, camping trailers or travel trailers shall be temporarily or
permanently located, placed, attached or affixed to or upon any platted lot or
parcel of real property within the city limits that are intended for and used
as a temporary or permanent dwelling or office. Any property that is designated
as an RV, camping trailer, mobile home or travel trailer park prior to the
passage of this section shall be exempt from this restriction.
   (B)   Applicability of provisions.
      (1)   The section shall not apply to recreational vehicles, camping
trailers or travel trailers or similar structures that have been permanently
attached or otherwise affixed to or upon any platted lot or parcel of real
property with the city limits prior to the effective date of this section.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to visiting friends or relatives who
are in occupant-owned recreational vehicles, camping trailers and/or travel
trailers that are temporarily in the city limits for less than two weeks;
further, this section shall not apply to construction-owned trailers that are
temporarily in the city limits providing office space for workers while the
same are working on construction projects.
   (C)   Violations. The violation of this section shall subject the owner of a
lot or parcel of real property upon which such violation occurs to a penalty as
provided in §
73.99. Notice of violation of this section shall be served upon the property
owner by personal delivery to such owner by any such officer as the city may
direct, and/or notice may be given by posting written notice of the violation
of this section in a conspicuous place upon the property where the offense has
occurred or is occurring and by mailing a certified letter, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the owner of the lot or parcel of
property upon which such violation has occurred. Citations and the levying of
the fines and court costs as provided herein shall be subject to the right of
the party cited for violation hereof to a hearing in accordance with the
ordinances of the city. Collection of any fines and court costs imposed
pursuant to this section shall be as authorized and provided by the ordinances
of the city and the laws of the state.
(1999 Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 101, passed 5-2-1994; Ord. 107, passed 9-5-1995)
Penalty, see §
73.99
BICYCLES
§ 73.10 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this subchapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles subject to the exceptions stated herein.
(1999 Code, § 73.10) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of this city applicable to the driver of
a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and except as to
those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
(47 O.S. § 11-1202) (1999 Code, § 73.11)
§ 73.12 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right turn or
left turn or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey
the direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the
bicycle to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(1999 Code, § 73.12) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.13 RIDING ON BICYCLE.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(47 O.S. § 11-1203) (1999 Code, § 73.13) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.14 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(1999 Code, § 73.14) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.15 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(47 O.S. § 11-1205) (1999 Code, § 73.15) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(1999 Code, § 73.16) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of- way
to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(1999 Code, § 73.17) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handle bars.
(47 O.S. § 11-1206) (1999 Code, § 73.18) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(1999 Code, § 73.19) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.20 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is authorized to have
erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles
thereon by any person, and when such signs are in place, no person shall
disobey the same.
(1999 Code, § 73.20) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front, which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear, of a type which shall
be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(1999 Code, § 73.21) Penalty, see §
73.99
OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON STREETS
§ 73.40 ALLOWED USE.
   It shall be lawful for persons to operate golf carts upon the city streets
of the city, subject to the following provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 9-6-2007) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.41 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts may only be driven by a person who has a valid drivers
license.
   (B)   Golf carts may not be driven on the state or county highways or
roadways.
   (C)   The number of passengers shall not exceed the seating capacity of the
golf cart.
   (D)   Golf carts shall comply with lighting and safety requirements imposed
by Oklahoma Law.
   (E)   Golf carts shall be subject to the Oklahoma statutory rules of the
road and applicable penalties.
   (F)   Golf carts shall be operated only on city streets with a speed limit
of 35 mph or less.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 9-6-2007; Ord. 2022-2, passed 4-12-2022; Ord. 2024-3,
passed 10-3-2024)
§ 73.42 RIGHTS AND DUTIES.
   Every person operating a golf cart upon the city streets shall be granted
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to a
driver of a vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road
applicable to vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of this city applicable to
a driver of a vehicle, except as to those provisions of the state laws and
ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 9-6-2007)
§ 73.43 MOTORCYCLES, MINI-BIKES AND ATVS.
   Motorcycles, mini-bikes and all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) shall not be
permitted to be operated on the city streets, unless such vehicle is registered
and permitted for use upon state highways according to law.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 9-6-2007) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whenever in §
73.01, an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense
or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this chapter the doing of any act is required
or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific
penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any provision of this chapter,
upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $10.
(1999 Code, § 73.99)
   (B)   The violation of §
73.02 shall subject the owner of a lot or parcel of real property upon which
such violation occurs to a fine of up to $150 per day, plus court costs, for
each day any such violation has occurred and continues to occur.
(1999 Code, § 151.99)
   (C)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of §§
73.15 through 73.25 shall be punished as provided in division (B) above, or by
impounding of such person’s bicycle for a period not to exceed ten days, or by
combination thereof.
(1999 Code, § 73.99)
(Ord. 101, passed 5-2-1994; Ord. 107, passed 9-5-1995)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERY
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
95.   LIBRARY
      
96.   NUISANCES
      
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
Animals Generally
   
90.015   Turning animals loose
   
90.016   Farm animals
   
90.017   Indecent exhibition
   
90.018   Animals which disturb prohibited
   
90.019   Cleanliness of buildings and premises
   
90.020   Kennels and the like
   
90.021   Outdoor shelter
   
90.022   Manure
   
90.023   Inspection and enforcement
   
90.024   Rabies control
   
90.025   Cruelty to animals
   
90.026   Abandonment of animals
   
90.027   Miscellaneous charges
   
90.028   Maintenance of public nuisance
At Large Animals Prohibited
   
90.040   Keeping fowl prohibited; exceptions
   
90.041   Stables to be kept clean
   
90.042   Health Officer to inspect
   
90.043   Wild and dangerous animals unlawful
   
90.044   Report of animal bites; rabies
   
90.045   Payment of veterinary fees
   
90.046   Animals to be impounded; entry on property
   
90.047   Turning animals at large
   
90.048   Pasturing in public areas
   
90.049   Swine within the city limits
Dogs and Cats
   
90.055   Vaccination of dogs
   
90.056   At-large dogs
   
90.057   Dog tax; licenses
   
90.058   Tags for dogs
   
90.059   Rabies control
   
90.060   Dogs that bite
   
90.061   Dogs bred or trained for fighting
Vicious Dogs
   
90.075   Definition of vicious animal; harboring unlawful
   
90.076   Definition of potentially vicious animal
City Pound
   
90.090   Establishment of pound
   
90.091   Impoundment
   
90.092   Turning animals loose and other interference
   
90.093   Fees for impounding; redemption
   
90.094   Reclamation of impounded animals
   
90.095   Disposition of impounded animals
   
90.096   Sale or other disposition of unclaimed animals
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, swine, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey or other animal or fowl.
   AT LARGE. Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under
the control of or occupied by, the owner of the animal, and not under the
control of the owner, a member of his or her immediate family 12 years of age
or older, or an agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal
remains, or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten days or more,
is deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog which has bitten, or attempted to bite, any persons
without undue provocation, or which attacks, or barks or growls at and acts as
if it intended to attack or bite, or bites, a person or persons, when unduly
provoked.
(1999 Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 2010-12, passed - -)
ANIMALS GENERALLY
§ 90.015 TURNING ANIMALS LOOSE.
   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined as required by ordinance so as to turn such animal at large, or in any
manner to turn such animal at large.
(1999 Code, § 90.11) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.016 FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   Horses, cattle, sheep and the like.
      (1)   It is unlawful to keep, maintain, or permit to be kept or
maintained, any cattle, horse, mule, sheep or goats within the city; provided,
however, that any shipper shall be allowed to keep cattle, horses, mules, sheep
and goats in the railroad stock yards not to exceed six days while making up
cars for shipment or awaiting transportation.
      (2)   The keeping or maintaining, or permitting to be kept or maintained,
any cattle, horses, mules, sheep or goats within the city is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Pigs, hogs and the like. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep
and maintain swine, hogs, shoats or pigs within the city.
(1999 Code, § 90.13) (Ord. 106, passed 9-5-1995; Ord. 2010-12, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 96
   Nuisances enumerated, see §
96.003
§ 90.017 INDECENT EXHIBITION.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit animals of the opposite sex to have
sexual intercourse in any place except an enclosed place entirely out of the
public view.
(1999 Code, § 90.14) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.018 ANIMALS WHICH DISTURB PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the city any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling, fighting, destruction of property or
otherwise causes danger or annoyance or disturbs the peace and quiet of any
person or persons.
(1999 Code, § 90.15) (Ord. 78, passed 10-6-1988; Ord. 2010-12, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances enumerated; noisy animals, see §
96.003
§ 90.019 CLEANLINESS OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   (A)   Building for animals.
      (1)   Every building wherein any animal is kept within the city shall be
constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be kept clean and
sanitary at all times.
      (2)   Every such building, if located within 200 feet of any tenement or
apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building
used for education, religious or hospital purposes, or residence other than
that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal
is kept, shall be provided with a water-tight and fly-tight receptacle for
manure, of such size as to hold all accumulations of manure. Such receptacle
shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner as to prevent it from
being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept covered at all times, except
when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure shall be
allowed to accumulate on such premises except in such receptacle.
   (B)   To be kept clean and the like. Every structure, pen, coop or place
wherein an animal is kept or permitted to be, shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition and free from objectionable odors.
(1999 Code, § 90.16) (Ord. 2010-12, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances enumerated, see §
96.003
§ 90.020 KENNELS AND THE LIKE.
   No kennel, coop or other structure wherein animals are kept shall be
maintained less than 20 feet from the nearest property line, nor less than 100
feet to any dwelling other than the owner’s. On lots of 35,000 square feet or
more, no shelter shall be maintained within a distance of 400 feet from any
dwelling other than the shelters owner’s. Nothing herein shall be deemed to
allow the maintenance of any kennels or other shelters where such maintenance
is otherwise prohibited by law.
(1999 Code, § 90.17) (Ord. 2010-12, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances enumerated, see §
96.003
§ 90.021 OUTDOOR SHELTER.
   (A)   Natural or artificial shelters appropriate to the local climatic
conditions for the particular species of animal or fowl shall be provided for
all animals or fowl kept outdoors. A suitable method of drainage shall be
provided to rapidly eliminate excess water.
   (B)   A shelter for a dog or cat shall consist of a moisture-proof and wind-
proof structure of suitable size to accommodate the animal and to allow
retention of body heat.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed - -)
§ 90.022 MANURE.
   Manure shall be hauled outside the city in a manner which does not
jeopardize the public health, or else shall be spread evenly upon ground.
(1999 Code, § 90.18) (Ord. 2010-12, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances enumerated; manure, see §
96.003
§ 90.023 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The animal welfare officer, police officer or Code Enforcement
Officer, upon complaint of any person, shall inspect any structure or place
where an animal is kept, and may do so on his or her own initiative. He or she
may issue any such reasonable order as he or she deems necessary to the owner
of such animal to cause such animal to be kept as provided in this chapter or
in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   He or she may make a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any
person for violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable
order; but this shall not abridge the right of others to make such complaint.
(1999 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. 2010-12, passed - -)
§ 90.024 RABIES CONTROL.
   Any dog or other animals suspected of being rabid or of having been bitten
by a rabid animal may be confined by order of the Health Officer or Police
Chief in the manner and for the time ordered by him or her, to determine
whether the animal is rabid. If a person has been bitten or if there is good
reason to believe that a person has been otherwise infected by such animal, the
Health Officer or Police Chief may have the animal put to death in a humane
manner and have it examined by medical authority to determine whether it has
rabies.
(1999 Code, § 90.20) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.025 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals. It is unlawful for any person willfully and
maliciously to pour on or apply to an animal any drug or other thing which
inflicts pain on the animal, or knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or
inhumane manner, or knowingly to neglect an animal belonging to him or her or
in his or her custody in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   (B)   Poisoning animals. It is unlawful for a person willfully to poison any
dog or other animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal or knowingly to
expose poison so that the same may be taken by such an animal.
   (C)   Encouraging animals to fight and the like. It is unlawful for any
person to instigate or encourage a fight between animals, or to encourage one
animal to attack, pursue or annoy another animal except a noxious,
nondomesticated animal, or to keep a house, pit or other place used for fights
between animals.
(1999 Code, § 90.21) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.026 ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall dump or abandon any dog, cat or other animal in the city,
and the dumping or abandoning of any such animal in the city shall constitute a
public offense.
(1999 Code, § 90.22) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.027 MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES.
   (A)   Whenever the city provides a service in connection with the regulation
and control of animals within the city, a fair and reasonable fee therefore
shall be charged to whoever requests such service.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall determine the amount of such fees based on
prevailing costs to the city of providing such service and/or equipment;
provided, nothing herein shall require or mandate provision of any such service
to the public. Services or equipment for which fees shall be charged shall
include, but not be limited to, burial, euthanasia and loan of traps.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-6-1988; Ord. 2010-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.028 MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any person owning, harboring or keeping any animal which is a public
nuisance as defined by §§
90.018 and/or
96.003.
   (B)   Not withstanding the provisions of division (A) above, and in addition
thereto, the Municipal Court shall have the discretion and authority to issue
any order, and/or require any bond or security, applicable to the owner or
harborer of any animal adjudged by the court a nuisance under §
96.003, in order to provide reasonable assurance that the determined nuisance
shall be effectively abated forthwith. The foregoing authority shall include
the power to order euthanasia of an animal in a proper case in the Court’s
judgment.
(Ord. 2010-13, passed - -)
AT LARGE ANIMALS PROHIBITED
§ 90.040 KEEPING FOWL PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The keeping, maintaining, or raising fowl, including but not limited
to chickens, ducks, and geese, within the city limits is prohibited.
   (B)   The keeping, maintaining, and raising of fowl will be permitted if the
location of such operation is at least three-fourths of an acre in size, to
where pens and houses can be maintained a minimum of 100 feet from any
adjoining residences. The keeping of fowl in any areas zoned for and used as a
business is prohibited.
   (C)   Any operation under division (B) of this section must have the
approval of the Health Officer or his or her duly authorized representative.
   (D)   All persons keeping and maintaining chickens, ducks, geese, or other
fowl under the exception provided in this section shall keep their pens and
houses in sanitary condition, and failure to do so after notice by the Health
Officer, Chief of Police, or any private individual who is a resident citizen
shall subject the party so transgressing, upon trial and conviction to a fine
as provided in §
90.999.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 STABLES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   Every structure, pen, coop, lot or place wherein an animal is kept or
permitted to be shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, devoid
of rodents and vermin and free from objectionable odors.
§ 90.042 HEALTH OFFICER TO INSPECT.
   The Health Officer or Police Chief, upon complaint of any person, shall
inspect any structure or place where an animal is kept, and may do so on his or
her own initiative. He or she may issue any such reasonable order as he or she
may deem necessary to the owner of the animal to cause the animal to be kept as
provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He
or she may make a complaint before the municipal judge against any person for
violating of any provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order, but
this procedure shall not abridge the right of others to make such complaint.
§ 90.043 WILD AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep within the city limits any wild and
dangerous animal or any animal for which a rabies vaccine is unavailable. This
section shall not apply to any veterinary hospital or where such animals may be
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses, zoos and educational institutions.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.044 REPORT OF ANIMAL BITES; RABIES.
   (A)   Any person owning, harboring, or keeping an animal that bites a person
and any person bitten by an animal must report that occurrence to the animal
control officer within 24 hours.
   (B)   Upon receiving a report that a person has been bitten by an animal,
the animal control officer shall issue a notice to the person owning, keeping
or harboring the animal which states that confinement and observation of the
animal are required.
   (C)   Upon receiving the notice required by division (B) of this section,
the person owning, harboring, or keeping the animal which in the preceding ten
days has bitten or is suspected of having bitten any person shall have the
animal immediately placed in confinement for rabies observation. The animal
shall be placed under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian. The expenses
incurred during confinement shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   In the event the person who owns, harbors, or keeps the animal
specified in division (A) of this section cannot, with due diligence, be
located or notified as provided, or, in the event the person who owns, harbors,
or keeps the animal specified refuses or fails to place the animal in
confinement as required, an animal control officer shall seize and impound the
animal and place it in confinement for the required observation period. The
animal control officer shall attempt to notify the owner or keeper subsequent
to seizure. If the animal remains unclaimed at the end of the confinement
period, the animal control officer may decide the disposition of the animal.
   (E)   In special circumstances, the animal control officer or the
veterinarian representative, may order the euthanasia of an animal and may
perform or order the performance of tests for the diagnosis of rabies.
Provided, however, that prior to disposing of the animal, the animal control
officer shall attempt
to locate and notify the owner or keeper of the animal. For purposes of this
section, special circumstances shall be defined as those situations involving
severe animal bites upon the head, face, neck or upper extremities, or deep
lacerations, or multiple animal bite wounds inflicted by unimmunized animals.
   (F)   It is the duty of practitioners and clinics to report animal bites:
      (1)   It is the duty of every attending practitioner, licensed to
practice medicine, osteopathic medicine or veterinary medicine, and of any
other person knowing of or in attendance on a case involving an animal bite to
report that bite to the animal control officer within 24 hours of his or her
first knowledge of attendance; and
      (2)   It is the duty of every clinic or hospital which has knowledge of a
case involving an animal bite to report that case to the animal control officer
within 24 hours of its first knowledge thereof.
   (G)   The reports required by division (F) of this section shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address and sex of the person bitten;
      (2)   The type and location of the bite;
      (3)   The name and address of the owner of the animal which inflicted the
bite; and
      (4)   Any other facts which may assist the animal control officer in
ascertaining the location and immunization status of the animal which inflicted
the bite.
   (H)   The following apply to immunized animals exposed to rabies
reimmunization, confinement and observation and methods of confinement and
observation:
      (1)   Any effectively immunized animal which is suspected of having been
expose to rabies and which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter
pertaining to licensing shall be immediately reimmunized and confined for
observation for symptoms of rabies for a period of not less than 90 days. The
expenses incurred during confinement shall be the responsibility of the owner.
      (2)   To provide the required confinement and observation, the suspect
animal may be seized by the animal control officer and placed in confinement
under the supervision of a veterinarian for the required period of observation.
If the owner or keeper of the suspect animal possesses sufficient facilities
and is sufficiently responsible to adequately confine and observe the animal,
the confinement and observation period may, at the discretion of the animal
control officer, be provided for by the owner or keeper.
   (I)   Any animal which has not been effectively immunized against rabies and
which is suspected of having been exposed to rabies shall not be euthanized
immediately either by the veterinarian or the animal control officer; or, in
the alternative, the nonimmunized rabies-exposed animal shall be seized by the
animal control officer and strictly quarantined at a veterinary hospital or
clinic, and observed for any symptoms of rabies for a period of six months from
the date of the suspected exposure. The quarantined animal shall be immunized
against rabies at least 30 days prior to its release. The expenses incurred
during confinement shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (J)   Any nonimmunized animal which has been exposed to a wild skunk, bat or
carnivore or which is suspected of having been exposed to a wild skunk, bat or
carnivore shall be considered exposed to rabies and shall be dealt with
pursuant to the provisions of this section, unless such skunk, bat or carnivore
is available for laboratory study.
   (K)   The duties of supervising veterinarian and animal control officer and
disposition of suspect animal are as follows:
      (1)   It is the duty of the veterinarian under whose supervision any
animal specified in this subchapter is placed for confinement and observation
to keep the animal isolated in a separate pen or kennel and under observation
for any symptoms of rabies.
      (2)   The veterinarian shall report immediately to the animal control
officer any changes occurring in the condition of the animal. Upon such
notification, the animal control officer or his or her duly authorized
representative, shall immediately notify the Director of the County Health
Department of the changes reported to him or her.
      (3)   Animals impounded for rabies observation may not be released by the
veterinarian until authorized by the animal control officer of the city.
§ 90.045 PAYMENT OF VETERINARY FEES.
   In the event the animal owner fails to pay veterinarian fees incurred
pursuant to §
90.044 of this chapter, then the victim or the victim’s parent or guardian
shall pay said veterinarian fees, and in the event the veterinary fees remain
unpaid, the city shall pay said veterinary fees. In the event the city does pay
said veterinary fees, said payment shall not release the obligors from payment
or responsibility of said fees nor the obligation to repay said fees to the
city and the city shall have and may exercise all legal rights or remedies to
collect said fees from the persons responsible under the ordinances of the
city.
§ 90.046 ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED; ENTRY ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   The pound officer, a police officer, or such other officer or employee
of the city as the City Manager may authorize shall take into custody and
impound any animal found at large and unleashed or in violation of any
provisions of the ordinances of the city. In taking an animal into custody
under authority of this chapter, the pound officer or police officer or other
officer or employee may enter onto private property to gain custody of the
animal.
   (B)   Any impounded animal shall be cared for for a period of not less than
five days in a suitable enclosure and any animal not reclaimed within the five-
day period shall be forfeited to the city.
   (C)   Any other person may take such animal into custody and present it to
the authority in charge of the pound for impounding.
§ 90.047 TURNING ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined as required by ordinance so as to turn such animal at large or in any
manner to turn such animal at large.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.048 PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, federal, state, city or other,
on any railroad right-of-way, on any property without the consent of the person
owning or controlling such property.
(1999 Code, § 90.12) (Ord. 2010-12, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.049 SWINE WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS.
   It is unlawful for any person being the owner of, or having the care,
custody, or control thereof, to keep or suffer to be kept any hogs, shoats, or
pigs at any time in any enclosure within the city, or any lot therein, or
running at large within the city.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.055 VACCINATION OF DOGS.
   The owner of a dog shall have the dog vaccinated against rabies by a
veterinarian or other authorized person every calendar year before July 1
thereof or, in the case of a pup, before he or she is six months old. The
person vaccinating the dog shall furnish the owner a certificate of
vaccination.
(1999 Code, § 90.35) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.056 AT LARGE DOGS.
   No person shall willfully allow any dog owned by him or her or under his or
her control to roam unrestrained upon the public streets, nor to trespass on
private property. And should any dog habitually roam the streets and/or
trespass on private property, then the gross negligence of the owner of such
animal in allowing the dog to do so shall be deemed the equivalent of willful
violation of this section and shall constitute a public offense.
(1999 Code, § 90.36) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.057 DOG TAX; LICENSES.
   (A)   A tax of $2 per year for every male dog or spayed female dog, and a
tax of $3 per year for every unspayed female dog, over six months of age, kept
or harbored within the city, is hereby levied upon the owner thereof.
   (B)   The tax shall not apply to a dog only temporarily brought and kept
within the city, nor to a dog brought within the city to participate in a dog
show, nor to a “seeing eye” dog when such dog is actually being used by a blind
person to aid him or her in going from place to place.
   (C)   The owner shall pay such tax to the City Clerk for every calendar year
before July 1 thereof, or upon acquiring after that day any dog within the city
upon which the tax has not been paid for the year in which acquired or upon
bringing a dog into the city after that day.
   (D)   Before the City Clerk accepts any money offered in payment of the tax
for a dog or issues a license for it, the person offering the tax shall present
to the City Clerk the certificate of a veterinarian or other person legally
authorized to immunize dogs showing that the dog has been immunized against
rabies during the calendar year (that is, since the preceding December 31).
   (E)   The owner of the dog shall, at the time of paying the tax, register
the dog by giving the City Clerk the name and address of the owner, the name,
breed, color and sex of the dog, and such other reasonable information as the
City Clerk may request.
   (F)   The City Clerk thereupon shall deliver an original receipt to the
taxpayer, and also an appropriate tag for the dog. Such tag shall constitute a
license for the dog.
(1999 Code, § 90.37) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.058 TAGS FOR DOGS.
   (A)   Tag to be placed on dog collar; lost tags.
      (1)   The owner shall cause the tag received from the City Clerk to be
affixed to the collar or harness of the dog upon which the tax has been paid so
that the tag can easily be seen by officers of the city, and the owner shall
see that the tag is so worn by the dog at all times.
      (2)   In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by applying to the City Clerk,
presenting to him or her the original receipt, and paying to him or her a fee
of $1.
   (B)   Counterfeiting; placing on other dogs. No person shall counterfeit, or
attempt to counterfeit, any tag issued for a dog as provided in this chapter,
or take from any dog a tag legally placed upon it, or place such tag upon a dog
for which the tag was not specifically issued.
(1999 Code, § 90.38) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.059 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Dogs and cats confined, when.
      (1)   When the Health Officer or Chief of Police determines and certifies
that a dog, a cat, or other animal in the city or within five miles of the city
is or was infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the
city, the Council, by resolution, may order all dogs to be confined and/or
muzzled, and if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined, during a period of
time to be determined by the Council. Such resolution or an adequate notice of
its passage shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city and upon the city’s website and shall go into effect on the day following
such publication unless the resolution prescribes a later time.
      (2)   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit a dog or cat to be at large in violation of such resolution, or for any
dog or cat to be at large in violation thereof.
   (B)   Rabid dog may be killed. Any person may kill a dog when the appearance
or conduct of which is such as would cause an ordinarily prudent person to
believe the dog to be afflicted with rabies.
(1999 Code, § 90.39) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.060 DOGS THAT BITE.
   Any owner or custodian of a dog having any reason to believe that such dog
has bitten any person in the city shall immediately report such incident to the
Chief of Police of the city.
(1999 Code, § 90.41) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.061 DOGS BRED OR TRAINED FOR FIGHTING.
   No person shall be allowed to keep with the city limits any dog bred or
trained for fighting, said dog being inherently dangerous to other residents of
the city, particularly children. Pit bulldogs and dogs being part pit bulldog
are specifically prohibited. Any owner or person responsible for bringing or
keeping such a dog in the city limits shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and each
day shall constitute a separate offense. Person shall be further strictly
liable for any harm or damage caused by such dog.
(1999 Code, § 90.43) (Ord. 78, passed 10-6-1988) Penalty, see §
90.999
VICIOUS DOGS
§ 90.075 DEFINITION OF VICIOUS ANIMAL; HARBORING UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
      VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal, which, without provocation, attacks and makes
physical contact with a person, dog, cat, animal or livestock with the intent
to cause harm or the infliction of serious injury.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor, shelter, keep, possess
or allow remaining on any premises under his or her control within the city a
vicious animal as defined herein.
   (C) A shelter supervisor will be appointed by the Mayor of the city.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.076 DEFINITION OF POTENTIALLY VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   POTENTIALLY VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal, when unprovoked:
      (1)   Acts as if intends to bite a human, dog or cat or animal or
livestock whether on public or private property;
      (2)   Chases or approaches a human upon a public way in a threatening
fashion as if to inflict injury or serious harm; and
      (3)   Demonstrates aggressive behavior, which requires a human to take
defensive or evasive action to avoid physical contact with the animal
(Ord. 2010-10, passed - -)
CITY POUND
§ 90.090 ESTABLISHMENT OF POUND.
   A city pound may be established under the jurisdiction of the Police
Department. It shall be under the immediate control of a pound officer or of
such other person as may be officially designated. The person in charge of the
pound shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded and shall treat
them in a humane manner. The city may contract with another agency for the use
of a pound maintained by the agency.
(1999 Code, § 90.55)
§ 90.091 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The pound officer, a police officer or such other officer or employee
of the city as the Mayor of the city may authorize, shall take into custody and
impound any animal running at large in violation of any provision of the
ordinances of the city, may enter upon the premises of the owner or other
private premises to take such animal into custody.
   (B)   Any other person may take such animal into custody and present it to
the authority in charge of the pound for impounding.
   (C)   All dogs found at large and unleashed shall be subject to confiscation
and impoundment. All such impounded dogs shall thereafter be cared for a period
of not less than three days in a suitable enclosure. Such dogs that have not
been reclaimed in said three-day period, it shall be determined that the owner
has relinquished their possession of the dog.
(1999 Code, § 90.56)
§ 90.092 TURNING ANIMALS LOOSE AND OTHER INTERFERENCE.
   No unauthorized person shall break or attempt to break open the pound, or
take or let out any animal therefrom, or take or attempt to take from any
officer or employee of the city any animal taken into custody as provided by
ordinance, or in any manner interfere with or hinder such officer or employee
in the discharge of his or her duties relating to the taking into custody and
impounding of animals as provided in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 90.57) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.093 FEES FOR IMPOUNDING; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   The Council, by motion or resolution, shall determine the fees to be
charged for impounding and keeping animals.
   (B)   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the required fees
to the City Clerk and present his or her receipt therefor to the person in
charge of the pound before the latter releases the animal.
(1999 Code, § 90.58)
§ 90.094 RECLAMATION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Reclamation of impounded animals may be made in the following manner:
The party desiring to reclaim a dog or cat shall present to the pound officer
or other employee which may be designated by the Mayor, proof of ownership, if
the owner is reclaiming an animal, and proof that the dog or cat is currently
vaccinated for rabies. Nonimmunized animals which are impounded will not be
released from the city pound until prepayment of the rabies vaccination is made
to the city. The owner will be issued a certificate to be redeemed by a
veterinarian upon rabies vaccination of the animal. The owner shall have the
animal vaccinated for rabies by a veterinarian within ten days of the release
of the animal. The vaccinating veterinarian shall forward a proof of
vaccination receipt to the City Clerk.
   (B)   The party desiring to reclaim or adopt any animal shall pay the
applicable pound fees and show evidence to the pound officer that the fees have
been paid, that the animal is currently vaccinated for rabies or that
prepayment of rabies vaccination has been made. The pound officer shall
thereupon release the reclaimed animal to the party.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of this section, or failing to
provide for vaccination as provided herein shall, upon conviction, be punished
as provided in §
90.999 of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 90.59) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.0095 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Dogs and cats may be released from the animal pound, for adoption by a
person 18 years of age or older, if the owner of the animal has not claimed the
animal within the time specified in this chapter and paid all fees required to
secure its release. If the animal has not been surgically spayed or neutered,
the adopting person shall cause, at his or her expense, the animal to be
sterilized prior to release or sign an agreement as may be required by state
law to have the animal sterilized, and by depositing with the city a deposit in
such sum as shall be set by the city to be refunded upon proof of sterilization
as required by law. An adoption fee may be established by resolution of the
City Council.
   (B)   Dogs and cats may be released from the animal pound for pre-adoption
by a person 18 years of age or older, if the owner of the animal has not
claimed the animal within the time specified in this chapter and paid all fees
required to secure its release. A pre-adoption fee may be established by
resolution of the City Council.
      (1)   A pre-adopting person shall, unless the animal is sooner placed in
a permanent home, maintain custody of the animal for a period of not less than
two weeks from the date custody of the animal is delivered to the preadopting
person. After the two-week period has expired, the pre-adopting
person may return the animal to the animal pound if a permanent home for the
animal has not been found. Provided that, in the event the animal proves
unmanageable or not otherwise suitable for adoption, the preadopting person may
immediately return the animal to the animal pound.
      (2)   Persons adopting or pre-adopting an animal from the animal pound
shall assume all risks associated with custody of the animal and will, upon
request of the city, execute a hold harmless and indemnity agreement upon such
terms as the city may require.
   (C)   Any animal for which the owner is known and notice has been provided
in this chapter, or for which the owner is unknown or cannot be ascertained by
the animal control officer, could be destroyed after the lapse of five days if
not adopted or pre-adopted as provided in this section or sold by the animal
control officer. Provided, an unclaimed animal may be held in custody for a
longer period of time at the discretion of the animal control officer after a
reasonable effort has been made to notify the owner. A euthanasia fee to be
paid by the owner may be established by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   The proceeds of any animal which is sold shall be deposited with the
City Clerk. The purchaser of an animal sold at any sale provided for in this
section shall acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
§ 90.096 SALE OR OTHER DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after any animal of apparent value has been
impounded, the pound officer or other employee or officer concerned shall post
a notice thereof at the police office of the city or at the pound. Such notice
shall describe the animal and notify the owner to pay the charges thereon and
remove the same prior to a designated time, and such notice shall also state
that, unless the animal is redeemed, the animal will be sold.
   (B)   Sales herein provided for shall be for cash and shall be conducted by,
or under the direction of, the Chief of Police.
(1999 Code, § 90.60)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   Every person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as set forth in §
10.99. Each day a violation continues, after due notice has been served in
accordance with the terms and provisions provided hereof, shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 2010-10, passed - -; Ord. 2010-12, passed - -; Ord.
2010-13, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERY
Section
   
91.01   Board of Trustees created
   
91.02   Receipts and expenses
   
91.03   Cemetery Care Fund
   
91.04   Reports of Board to Council
   
91.05   Plat of cemetery
   
91.06   Record of burials
   
91.07   Record of deeds
   
91.08   Paupers graves
   
91.09   Maintenance of cemetery
   
91.10   Interment; fees; grave maintenance
   
91.11   Temporary head boards
   
91.12   Fences and enclosures; permit required
   
91.13   Flags on Decoration Day
Statutory reference:
   City cemeteries, see 11 O.S. §§ 26-101 through 26-209
§ 91.01 BOARD OF TRUSTEES CREATED.
   (A)   Trustees. There is hereby created a Board of Cemetery Trustees to have
charge of and control of the municipal cemetery as follows. The Board of
Trustees shall consist of four members approved by the City Council and one
City Council member as a representative of the Council. The term of each member
shall be reviewed by the Council every two years at the beginning of the fiscal
year.
   (B)   Powers and duties of cemetery trustees. The Board of Trustees shall be
authorized to make rules and regulations governing the management, improvement
and establishment of the cemetery. The Cemetery Board reserves the right to
change these rules and regulations in the future when the need arises. All
changes will be subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Procedure. The Cemetery Board may adopt rules and regulations by a
majority vote. These rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the
bylaws. The Cemetery Board shall practice prudent use of cemetery resources
based on specific needs of the cemetery.
(11 O.S. § 26-107) (1999 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 74, passed 2-19-1987; Ord. 2007-
3, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 91.02 RECEIPTS AND EXPENSES.
   All money received by the Board of Cemetery Trustees from the sale of lots
or from interments, or from any other source, shall be paid to the City
Treasurer, who shall deposit the same in the Municipal Treasurer. Expenses
incurred by reason of the upkeep, repair and adornment of the municipal
cemetery may be paid by the City Treasurer upon proper warrants authorized by
the board through a signature on the bill by the Board Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson or Secretary.
(11 O.S. § 26-108) (1999 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 91.03 CEMETERY CARE FUND.
   Not less than 25% of all moneys received from the sale of the lots and
interments shall be segregated and set aside as a permanent fund to be known as
the Cemetery Care Fund. The Cemetery Care Fund principal shall be expended in
purchasing lands for cemeteries and for making capital improvements when
necessary. The balance of the fund may be invested, without approval of any
court, by the body having control of the cemetery, in the manner provided by 62
O.S. § 348.1 for investment of municipal funds. Only the interest from the
investments shall be used in improving, caring for and embellishing the lots,
walks, drives, parks and other necessary improvements on such cemeteries.
(1999 Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see 11 O.S. § 26-109
§ 91.04 REPORTS OF BOARD TO COUNCIL.
   The Board of Cemetery Trustees shall, on the first Mondays in January and
July of each year, make a full report to the City Council of all lots sold,
interments made and all moneys received and expended by the Board in and about
the cemetery.
(11 O.S. § 26-110) (1999 Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 91.05 PLAT OF CEMETERY.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to keep in his or her office a plat
of all cemetery lots, which shall at all time show the lots remaining unsold.
The City Clerk shall keep a record of the names of all persons entitled to
deeds to lots and holding a deed to lots.
(1999 Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 91.06 RECORD OF BURIALS.
   The employees of the cemetery shall keep an accurate account of all burials
in the city cemetery to be kept in a book furnished by the city, which shall be
and become a part of the permanent records of the city and shall show the name,
nationality, age, date of death, cause of death and date of interment of each
body and any data with regard to service the U.S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air
Force or other military service.
(1999 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 91.07 RECORD OF DEEDS.
   The City Clerk shall keep a record of all deeds to cemetery lots issued by
the city, which record shall show the name of the purchaser, the date of the
instrument, a description of the property and the consideration received
therefor.
(1999 Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 91.08 PAUPERS GRAVES.
   There is hereby set aside a certain portion of the cemetery which is
designated on the plat as public ground, whereon shall be buried any paupers or
others unable to purchase lots within the cemetery, and employees of the
cemetery shall keep a separate list of the same data as set forth in §
91.06 covering each person buried in this portion or public plot.
(1999 Code, § 91.08) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 91.09 MAINTENANCE OF CEMETERY.
   It shall be the duty of the employees of the cemetery to cut and remove
grass and weeds from the walks, drives and lots in the city cemetery. They
shall at all times keep gravestones in proper condition, remove all surplus
dirt and rubbish from the cemetery, care for the improvements and supervise any
changes or additions under direction of the Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 91.09) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 91.10 INTERMENT; FEES; GRAVE MAINTENANCE.
   The employees of the cemetery shall always be subject to the order of
persons requiring their services for burial in the cemetery at the following
rates, to wit: for preparing a grave and filling grave, the sum of $350 on
weekdays for adult persons; $400 on weekends for the same; $75 for children
three years old and over; and $50 for infants under three years old. All graves
shall be excavated not less than four feet six inches below the natural surface
of the ground. They shall be filled and neatly crowned and smoothed, and the
employees of the cemetery shall thereafter keep all graves filled up to at
least the level of the ground.
(1999 Code, § 91.10) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 91.11 TEMPORARY HEAD BOARDS.
   It shall be the duty of authorized persons of the cemetery to place
temporary head boards at the head of each grave with the name of the deceased
written thereon until a permanent gravestone shall be placed in lieu thereof.
(1999 Code, § 91.11) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 91.12 FENCES AND ENCLOSURES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to make, build or construct any
private fence or enclosure, whether made of wood, iron or other material,
around any private lot or grave without first having obtained permission from
the Mayor and Council.
(1999 Code, § 91.12) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.13 FLAGS ON DECORATION DAY.
   It is unlawful for any person on Decoration Day to place a flag on any grave
other than the grave of one who has served in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps or
Air Force, including graves of nurses in the military services of the United
States government.
(1999 Code, § 91.13) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 6-4-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Policy
   
92.02   Definitions
Prohibitions
   
92.15   Applicability of provisions
   
92.16   Exemptions
   
92.17   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.18   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
92.19   Discrimination in the provision of real estate brokerage services
Administration and Enforcement
   
92.30   Administration
   
92.31   Education and conciliation
   
92.32   Complaint procedure
   
92.33   Complaint investigation
   
92.34   Enforcement by private persons
   
92.35   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
92.36   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(1999 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.17 through
92.19.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(1999 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 92.15 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
92.16, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in §
92.16 shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
92.17 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided that:
         (a)   Such private individual owner does not own more than three such
single-family houses at any one time;
         (b)   In the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the
exemption granted by this division (B) shall apply only with respect to one
such sale within any 24-month period;
         (c)   Such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any
express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; and
         (d)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from the application of this title only if such house is sold or
rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesperson or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.17(C), but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(1999 Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989)
§ 92.16 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin. Nor shall
anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
(1999 Code, § 92.16) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989)
§ 92.17 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.15 and except as exempted by §§
92.15(B) and
92.16, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion or national
origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion or
national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available; and
   (E)   For profit to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion
or national origin.
(1999 Code, § 92.17) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989)
§ 92.18 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
financial assistance because of the race, color, religion or national origin of
such person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with such
loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other
financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given, provided that nothing
contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the
exception contained in §
92.15(B).
(1999 Code, § 92.18) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989)
§ 92.19 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF REAL ESTATE BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation on account of race,
color, religion or national origin.
(1999 Code, § 92.19) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 92.30 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the Chief Executive Officer of the city.
   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties and powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter under this chapter. The
Chief Executive Officer shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his or her hearing examiners or to other officers in the city, to
boards of officers, or to himself or herself, as shall be appropriate and in
accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Chief Executive Officer to further such purposes.
(1999 Code, § 92.30) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989)
§ 92.31 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the
housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the
provisions of this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it,
and shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary
compliance and of enforcement.
(1999 Code, § 92.31) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989)
§ 92.32 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Chief Executive Officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the Chief Executive Officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
Chief Executive Officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or
within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference under division
(C) below, the Chief Executive Officer shall investigate the complaint and give
notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve
it. If the Chief Executive Officer decides to resolve the complaints, he or she
shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion.
Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made
public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter
without the written consent of the persons concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and, with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer, which
shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend
his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief Executive
Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. The Chief Executive Officer will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court against the
respondent named in the complaint to enforce the rights granted or
protected by this chapter insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the
complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has
occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from
engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Chief Executive Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
   (G)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Chief
Executive Officer participates as a part or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 92.32) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.33 COMPLAINT INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation the Chief Executive Officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and
other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy
such materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons
as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that the Chief Executive Officer first complies with the provisions of
the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Chief
Executive Officer may issue subpoenas to compel his or her access to or the
production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and may issue
interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States District Court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place. The Chief Executive
Officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Chief Executive Officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the Chief Executive Officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the Chief Executive Officer himself or
herself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their
face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they were
issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief Executive Officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the Chief Executive Officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The Chief Executive Officer shall grant the petition if he or she
finds that the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable
time or place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to
any matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous or for other good reason.
   (E)   In the case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief
Executive Officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which
the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts
business.
   (F)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the Chief Executive Officer shall be penalized as provided in §
92.99. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the Chief Executive
Officer, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in
any report, account, record or other document submitted to the Chief Executive
Officer pursuant to his or her subpoena or other order, or shall willfully
neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true and correct entries in
such reports, accounts, records or other documents, or shall willfully
mutilate, alter or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall
be penalized as provided in §
92.99.
(1999 Code, § 92.33) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.34 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   The rights granted by §§
92.15 through
92.19 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however, that the
court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
92.32(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive Officer are likely to
result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice
complained of in the complaint made to the Chief Executive Officer and which
practice forms the basis for the action in court and provided, further, that
any sale, encumbrance or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court
order issued under the authority of this chapter, and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant without actual notice of the existence of the
filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of this chapter
shall not be affected.
(1999 Code, § 92.34) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.35 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.15 through
92.19. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(1999 Code, § 92.35) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.36 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with the following shall be penalized as provided in §
92.99:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion or national
origin and because he or she is or has been selling, purchasing, renting,
financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase,
rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or
participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the business
of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations
or facilities described in division (A) above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in division (A) above, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
(1999 Code, § 92.36) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any employee of the Chief Executive Officer who shall make public any
information in violation of §
92.32(A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
92.33(F) shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one
year, or both.
   (C)   Pursuant to §
92.34, the court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent or
temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order, and may award
to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive damages,
together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of a
prevailing plaintiff, provided that the said plaintiff in the opinion of the
court is not financially able to assume said attorney fees.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
92.36 shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one
year, or both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than
$10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results
shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(1999 Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 79, passed 8-10-1989)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Prevention Code
   
93.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
93.02   Modifications
   
93.03   Enforcement
   
93.04   Definitions
   
93.05   Limits in which flammable liquids are prohibited
   
93.06   Limits in which explosives and blasting agents are prohibited
   
93.07   Materials, processes or occupancies requiring permits
Regulations
   
93.20   Fireworks
   
93.21   Flammable liquids; permits
   
93.22   Vehicles carrying flammable substances
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Fire Department, see
Chapter 33
Nuisances enumerated; fire and explosion hazards, see §
96.003
Hazardous businesses, see
Chapter 112
False fire alarms, see §
134.06
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 93.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the City Council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion that certain code known as the International Fire Code recommended by
the American Insurance Association, being particularly the 2018 edition thereof
and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter
deleted, modified or amended by this chapter of this code, of which
International Fire Code not less than one copy has been and now is filed in the
office of the City Clerk. This Code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully
as if set out at length herein and from the date on which this Code shall take
effect the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the
city.
(1999 Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 2019-9, passed 8-15-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall have power to
modify any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in
writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there
are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety
secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the
decision of the Mayor and Council thereon shall be entered upon the records of
the Council, and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(1999 Code, § 93.02)
§ 93.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the Fire
Department of the city, under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
      (2)   The terms BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION and CHIEF OF THE BUREAU OF FIRE
PREVENTION, wherever found in the Fire Prevention Code, shall mean the Fire
Department and Chief of the Fire Department, respectively, of this city.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members of the Fire
Department as inspectors as may from time to time be necessary.
(1999 Code, § 93.03)
§ 93.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the Fire Prevention Code, it
means the City of Hooker.
   (B)   Whenever the word CORPORATION COUNSEL is used in said Code, it means
the City Attorney of the City of Hooker.
(1999 Code, § 93.04)
§ 93.05 LIMITS IN WHICH FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS ARE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Limits within which storage of flammable liquids in outside
aboveground tanks is prohibited.
      (1)   The limits referred to in § 16.22a of the Fire Prevention Code, in
which storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited,
are hereby established as the city limits.
      (2)   The limits referred to in § 16.51 of the Fire Prevention Code, in
which new bulk plants for flammable liquids are prohibited, are hereby
established as the city limits.
   (B)   Limits in which liquefied petroleum gas manufacturing, distribution or
handling is prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to establish, erect,
construct or enlarge a plant or place of business where liquefied petroleum gas
or gases are to be manufactured, distributed or handled within the city limits.
(1999 Code, § 93.05) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 LIMITS IN WHICH EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS ARE PROHIBITED.
   The limits referred to in § 12.5b of the Fire Prevention Code, in which
storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby established
as the city limits.
(1999 Code, § 93.06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES REQUIRING PERMITS.
   The Mayor, the Chief of the Fire Department and one person appointed by the
Mayor with approval of the Council shall act as a committee to determine and
specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition
to those now enumerated in said Code. The Fire Chief shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his or her office, and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons.
(1999 Code, § 93.07)
REGULATIONS
§ 93.20 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, distribute, fire, ignite, light
or explode, or cause to be sold, distributed, fired, ignited, lighted or
exploded any fireworks, firecrackers, torpedoes or explosives of any nature or
kind, within the city limits of the cit when a county burn ban is in effect.
   (B)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to any public
demonstration or display of fireworks of any kind outside of the fire zone if
approved and conducted under proper supervision of the Police Department or
Fire Department of the city. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the possession of fireworks for said public demonstration or
display if approved and conducted as set forth herein.
   (C)   The sale, distribution or use of prohibited fireworks in violation of
this section shall be punishable by a fine as provided in §
93.99.
   (D)   The City Fire Chief or any authorized police officer of the city,
shall seize as contraband any illegal fireworks. Fireworks seized in the
enforcement of this section shall not be destroyed without written order of the
District Court of the county.
(1999 Code, § 93.20) (Ord. 131, passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS; PERMITS.
   (A)   Storing; permit required. It is unlawful for any person, firm,
association or corporation to keep, park, store or permit any gasoline,
naphtha, benzine, drip gas or other flammable liquids having flash points at or
below 700°F anywhere within the city without first obtaining a permit therefor
from the City Clerk. All such substances, liquids and fluids shall be subject
at all times to the provisions of any existing ordinances and to any further
regulations pertaining to the amount, location, manner of keeping and general
care of the same as the City Council may from time to time direct for public
safety; provided, however, that this division (A) shall not apply to regular
filling stations supplying fuel for the propulsion of motor vehicles.
   (B)   No charge for permit. There shall be no charge made for the issuance
of the permit provided for in division (A) above.
(1999 Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 VEHICLES CARRYING FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCES.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation to park or
permit to stand upon any street, alley or public place within the city, either
with or without cargo, any vehicle used for the transportation of explosives or
flammable liquids, substances or gases.
(1999 Code, § 93.22) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code adopted in §
93.01 or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with any
order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder or any certificate or
permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who fails
to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the City Council or by
a court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed therein shall severally
for every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of an
offense, punishable by a fine as provided in §
10.99. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue, and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time, and when
not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §
93.20 is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined as
provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation violating any
provision of §§
93.21 and
93.22 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine as provided in §
10.99. Each day in violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate and
distinct offense.
(1999 Code, § 93.99)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Toilet facilities
   
94.02   Milk and milk products
   
94.03   Food service sanitation
   
94.04   Unwholesome food
   
94.05   Medicine disposal
   
94.06   Contagious-disease control
Enforcement
   
94.20   Obstructing Health Officer
   
94.21   Violating orders, regulations and the like of enforcement authority
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Health Department; delegation of duties to county, see §
32.01
Hazardous buildings, see
Chapter 112
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 TOILET FACILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
      SANITARY PIT PRIVY. A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as
to conform to the specifications approved by the State Health Department.
      SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush-type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   (B)   Owner to provide proper toilet facilities. Every owner of a residence
or other building in which humans reside, are employed or congregate within
this city shall install, equip and maintain adequate sanitary facilities for
the disposal of human excrement, namely, a sanitary water closet or closets or
a sanitary pit privy or privies. The closets and toilets hereby required shall
be of the sanitary water-closet type when located within 200 feet of a sanitary
sewer and accessible thereto, and of the sanitary water-closet type
(notwithstanding a greater distance from a sanitary sewer) or the water-closet
type emptying into a septic tank system or the pit-privy type, provided that a
septic tank system or a pit privy may be used in such cases only if it meets
the standards of and is approved by the Health Department.
   (C)   Proper disposal of human excrement required. All human excrement
disposed of within this city shall be disposed of by depositing it in closets
and privies of the type hereinabove provided for. It is unlawful for any owner
of property within the city to permit the disposal of human excrement thereon
in any other manner, or for any person to dispose of human excrement within the
city in any other manner.
   (D)   Toilets; cleanliness; what may be put into them. All privies shall be
kept clean and sanitary at all times and the covers of the seats of privies
shall be kept closed at all times when the privies are not being used. No wash
water, kitchen slop or anything other than human excrement and toilet paper
shall be emptied into a privy. No excrement from any person suffering from
typhoid fever, dysentery or other serious bowel disease shall be deposited in
any sanitary pit privy or sanitary water closet or water closet emptying into a
septic tank until it is disinfected in such a manner as may be prescribed by
the Health Officer.
   (E)   Unauthorized facilities declared public nuisances; offense. All
facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner different from that
required by this section, and all privies and closets so constructed, situated
or maintained as to endanger the public health, are hereby declared to be
public nuisances, and may be dealt with and abated as such. Any person
maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense, and each day upon which
any such nuisance continues is a separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 96
§ 94.02 MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Milk ordinance adopted. The production, transportation, processing,
handling, sampling, examination, grading, labeling and sale of all milk and
milk products sold for the ultimate consumption within the city, or its police
jurisdiction; the inspection of dairy herds, dairy farms and milk plants; and
the issuing and revocation of permits to milk producers, haulers and
distributors shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of the Milk
Ordinance — Recommendations of the Public Health Service Revised to Comply with
Oklahoma State Statutes, a certified copy of which shall be filed in the office
of the City Clerk, provided that §§ 9 and 16 of said unabridged ordinance shall
be replaced, respectively, by division (B) below and §
94.06(A).
   (B)   Grades of milk which may be sold. Only certified pasteurized and grade
A pasteurized, and certified raw and/or grade A raw milk and milk products
shall be sold to the final consumer, or to restaurants, soda fountains, grocery
stores or similar establishments, provided that in an emergency, the sale of
pasteurized milk and milk products which have not been graded, or the grade of
which is unknown, may be authorized by the health authority, in which case,
such milk and milk products shall be labeled “ungraded”.
   (C)   Enforcement by whom. All sampling, examining, grading and regrading of
milk and milk products, and all inspections and issuing and suspension or
revocation of permits shall be done by the Director of the County Health
Department or his or her authorized representative, who shall be a registered
professional sanitarian. However, if an appeal be made through the City
Council, such suspension or revocation of permit shall not be effective unless
approved by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 FOOD SERVICE SANITATION.
   (A)   United States Food Service Sanitation Ordinance adopted. The
definitions; the inspection of food service establishments; the issuance,
suspension and revocation of permits to operate food service establishments;
the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated or misbranded food or drink; and the
enforcement of this section shall be regulated in accordance with the
unabridged form of the current edition of the United States Public Health
Service Food Service Sanitation Ordinance and Code.
   (B)   Restaurants to provide adequate rest room facilities.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation
to sell or offer for sale any food or drink to be consumed on the premises
without first having provided and made available to the customers of such
person, persons, firm or corporation suitable and adequate lavatory and toilet
facilities.
      (2)   Such lavatory and toilet shall be within the confines of the
building where such food or drink is offered for sale or sold and built and
connected with such sewer system as provided by the ordinances of the city and
the laws of the state.
(1999 Code, § 94.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 UNWHOLESOME FOOD.
   (A)   Not to maintain adulterated or misbranded food. It shall be unlawful
for any person to maintain within this city any article of food or
confectionery which is adulterated or misbranded within the meanings of this
section, and any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Examination of food. The examination of specimens of food or
confectionery shall be made by the Health Officer or under his or her
direction. If it shall appear from such examination of any of such
specimens that they are adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of this
section, the Health Officer shall cause a complaint to be sworn out.
   (C)   City Attorney’s duty. It shall at all times be the duty of the City
Attorney to cause appropriate proceedings to be commenced and prosecuted in the
proper courts without delay for the enforcement of penalties as in such cases
herein provided.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULTERATION. An article shall be deemed to be adulterated:
         (a)   In case of a confectionery, if it contains terra, alba, barytes,
talc, chrome yellow or other mineral substance or poisonous color or flavor, or
other ingredient deleterious or detrimental to the public health; and
         (b)   In case of food:
            1.   If any substance has been mixed and placed with it so as to
reduce or lower or injuriously affect its quality or strength;
            2.   If any substance has been substituted wholly or in part for
the article;
            3.   If any valuable constituent of the article has been wholly or
in part abstracted;
            4.   If it be mixed, colored, powdered, coated or stained in a
manner whereby an inferiority is concealed; and
            5.   If it consists in whole or in part of a filthy, decomposed or
putrid animal or vegetable substance, or any portion of an animal unfit for
food, whether manufactured or not, or if it is the product of a diseased animal
or one that has died otherwise than by slaughter.
      FOOD. Includes all articles used for foods, drinks, confectionery or
condiments by man or other animals, whether simple, mixed or compound.
      MISBRANDED.
         (a)   All articles of food or articles which enter into the
composition of goods, the package or label of which shall bear any statement,
design or device regarding such article or ingredients or substances contained
therein which shall be false or misleading in any particular, and to any food
product which is falsely branded as to the state, territory, country or place
in which it is manufactured or produced.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section an article shall be deemed to be
MISBRANDED:
            1.   If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under the
distinctive name of another article;
            2.   If it be labeled or branded so as to deceive or mislead the
purchaser, or purport to be a foreign product when not so, or if the contents
of the package as originally put up shall have been removed in whole or in part
and other contents shall have been placed in such package, or if it fails to
bear a statement on the label of the quantity or proportion of any morphine,
opium, cocaine, heroin, alpha or beta eucaine, acetanilide or any derivative or
preparation of any of such substances contained therein; or
            3.   If in package form, and the contents are stated in terms of
weight or measure, they are not plainly and correctly stated on the outside of
the package.
      PERSON. Shall be construed to import both the plural and the singular,
the masculine and the feminine, as the case demands, and shall include
corporations, companies, societies and associations. When construing and
enforcing the provisions of this section, the act, omission or failure of any
officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation,
company, society or association, within the scope of his or her employment or
office, shall in every case be deemed to be the act, omission or failure of
such corporation, company, society or association, as well as that of the
person.
   (E)   Labeling. All articles shall be labeled, branded or tagged so as to
plainly indicate that they are compounds, imitations or blends, and the word
“compound”, “imitation” or “blend” as the case may be, is plainly stated on the
package in which it is offered for sale, provided that the term BLEND as used
herein shall be construed to mean a mixture of like substances, not excluding
harmless coloring or flavoring ingredients used for the purpose of coloring and
flavoring only, not injurious to the public health and provided, further, that
nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring or compelling
proprietors or manufacturers of proprietary foods which contain no unwholesome
added ingredients to disclose their trade formulas, except insofar as the
provisions of this section may require to secure freedom from adulteration or
misbranding.
   (F)   Sample to be provided. Whosoever offers, exposes or has in his or her
possession for sale to dealers or consumers in this city any article of food
shall upon application of the Health Officer or his or her assistant or agent,
upon tender of the value thereof, furnish a sample sufficient for the analysis
of such article of food. Whosoever is convicted of a refusal to sell or give
such sample as provided herein shall be fined for such offense.
   (G)   Poisonous preservatives. Any meat, fish or other food which shall be
treated with or shall contain any of the salts of sulphurous acid or other
poisonous preservation or coloring matter are hereby declared to be
unwholesome, and any person, firm or corporation who shall sell or offer to
sell, serve or deliver or cause the same to be done, any meats, fish or any
other kind of food in any form having therein and containing any of the salts
of sulphurous acid or other poisonous preservative or coloring matter shall be
deemed guilty of an offense.
   (H)   Bake houses not to be in cellars and the like. No cellar, basement,
room or other place shall be occupied as a bake house which is less than one-
half its height above the level of the street.
   (I)   Sleeping areas of employees. The sleeping place for workers and other
employees in bake houses and restaurants shall be separate and distinct from
the place used for making bread, pastry and other articles of food, and from
such places where foods are prepared to be served.
   (J)   Not to sell unwholesome food. No butcher, grocer, trader or other
person shall sell, expose or offer for sale in any public market or at any
place within the limits of this city any unsound, diseased, stale, rotten,
fermented, nauseous or unwholesome meat, poultry, fish, vegetables, fruits or
other articles of food or provisions or any unwholesome bread, cake or pastry
manufactured in whole or in part from unwholesome flour or meal.
   (K)   Inspection. The Health Officer shall have power to inspect all
articles of food or drinks wherever located that may be sold or offered for
sale, and to analyze samples of the same upon his or her own motion. Any person
violating any of the requirements or prohibitions of this section shall be
guilty of an offense.
   (L)   To destroy unwholesome food. The Health Officer shall have authority
to destroy any foods, drinks, meats and fish that he or she finds to be
unwholesome and unfit for use.
   (M)   Places where food is sold or served.
      (1)   The Health Officer shall have full power to pass on the sanitary
condition of any place where foods, milk, drinks and meats are offered for sale
or served to the public.
      (2)   Any person, corporation or firm who shall, after having been duly
notified to clean up or place his, her or its place of business in sanitary
condition, refuse to do so shall be guilty of an offense.
(1999 Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances enumerated, see §
96.003
   Weights and measures, see §
110.20
§ 94.05 MEDICINE DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to throw, leave
or deposit or cause to be thrown, left or deposited upon any street, avenue,
alley, sidewalk or in any of the parks or other public places or on any private
property within this city any medicine of any kind or description whatsoever.
(1999 Code, § 94.06) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 CONTAGIOUS-DISEASE CONTROL.
   (A)   Contagious diseases. It shall be unlawful for any person affected with
or exposed to any contagious or infectious disease to appear upon any street or
in any public place so as to expose other persons to such disease.
   (B)   Contagious diseases and children. It shall be unlawful for any parent,
guardian or person having charge of any child or children to allow, permit or
suffer such child or children to attend school or a gathering of people or to
appear upon any street or in any public place in this city when the child is
infected with or exposed to any contagious or infectious disease, or in any
other manner so as to expose other persons to such disease.
   (C)   Quarantine. It shall be unlawful for any person having been lawfully
ordered by Health Officers to be detained in quarantine and not having been
discharged therefrom to leave the quarantine ground, or willfully violate any
quarantine regulation thereof, and it shall be unlawful for any person to enter
or go upon any ground or premises under quarantine without first having
obtained permission of the Board of Health or Health Officer so to do.
   (D)   Unlawful to refuse to be confined. It shall be unlawful for any person
whom the Board of Health of this city shall have ordered to be removed to, or
to be confined in, any pest house or quarantined inclosure to neglect or refuse
to be so removed or confined, and every day of such neglect or refusal shall
constitute a separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 94.07) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances enumerated, see §
96.003
ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.20 OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with
any Health Officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws
of this city.
(1999 Code, § 94.20) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 VIOLATING ORDERS, REGULATIONS AND THE LIKE OF ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully violate or refuse or omit
to comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of
the Board of Health or any officer charged with enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule or regulation.
(1999 Code, § 94.21) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, of the Milk
Ordinance adopted by §
94.02, or of the United States Public Health Service Food Service Sanitation
Ordinance and Code adopted by §
94.03 is guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by
a fine as provided in §
10.99. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from continuing such
violations. Each day upon which a violation continues constitutes a separate
violation.
(1999 Code, § 94.99)
CHAPTER 95: LIBRARY
Section
   
95.01   Management and control; Library Board
   
95.02   Grounds and building
   
95.03   Penalties for late or damaged books
   
95.04   Donations
   
95.05   Annual report
§ 95.01 MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL; LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   Management and control. The management and control of the Hooker
Public Library is hereby placed under a Library Board of Directors.
   (B)   Board of Directors. The Library Board shall consist of five Directors
chosen by the City Council from the citizens of the municipality with reference
to their fitness for such office. No Director shall receive compensation as
such. The Directors of the Library Board shall hold office for a term of five
years from May 1 following their appointment, and their terms shall be
staggered. At the first regular meeting of the Board, the Directors shall cast
lots for respective terms of one year, two years, three years, four years and
five years; thereafter, the terms of all Directors shall be five years. The
City Council may remove any Director for misconduct or neglect of duty.
Vacancies in the Library Board of Directors shall be filled in the same manner
as original appointments.
   (C)   Organization of Library Board. The Library Board, immediately after
the appointment and qualification of its Directors, shall meet and organize by
electing one Director as President, one Director as Secretary and by electing
such other officers as the Board may deem necessary.
   (D)   Powers and duties of Library Board, expenditures and receipts, Library
Fund, personnel. The Library Board shall adopt rules and regulations for its
own guidance and for the governance and operation of the Municipal Library not
inconsistent with this chapter which shall be subject to the approval of the
City Council. The Library Board shall have control of the expenditure of all
moneys collected and placed to the credit of the Library Fund, and of the
construction of any library building, and of the supervision, care and custody
of the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for the
Library. All money received by the Board on account of the operation of the
Library, or otherwise, shall be paid by the Board to the Municipal Treasurer,
who shall deposit the same in a special account, separate and apart from other
money in the Municipal Treasury, to be designated the Library Fund. Such moneys
shall be paid out only upon warrants authorized by the Library Board. The
Library Board shall have authority to establish a petty cash fund, not to
exceed the sum of $250 at any one time, for use in maintaining the Library,
which money shall be expended by the librarian on forms prescribed and
authorized by the Library Board. The Library Board shall have authority to
appoint and remove a suitable librarian and necessary assistants, and to fix
their compensation, all of which shall be subject to the approval of the City
Council.
(1999 Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 41, passed 2-5-1979)
§ 95.02 GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   The Library Board shall have the power, with the approval of the City
Council, to purchase grounds and erect thereon a suitable building for the use
of the Municipal Library and to suitably equip the same, and to lease rooms or
buildings for the use of the Library. The title to any grounds so purchased or
leased, as well as any building thereon, shall be taken in the name of the city
as grantee.
(1999 Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 41, passed 2-5-1979)
§ 95.03 PENALTIES FOR LATE OR DAMAGED BOOKS.
   The City Council may impose, by ordinance, suitable penalties for the
punishment of persons committing injury to or failure to return any book
belonging to the Library.
(1999 Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 41, passed 2-5-1979)
§ 95.04 DONATIONS.
   Any person desiring to make donations of money or personal or real property
for the benefit of the Municipal Library or for the establishment, maintenance
or endowment of the public lectures in connection with the Library upon any
subject designated by the donor in the field of literature, science and the
arts (except that lectures in the interest of any political party, politics or
sectarian religion are expressly prohibited) shall have the right to vest the
title to such money or property in the municipality, to be held and controlled
by the city, when accepted, according to the terms of the donation. The city
shall be held and considered to be a special trustee as to such property or
money donated.
(1999 Code, § 95.04) (Ord. 41, passed 2-5-1979)
§ 95.05 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library shall make, on or before July 31 in each year, an annual report
to the municipal governing body stating:
   (A)   The condition of its trust on June 30 of that year;
   (B)   The various sums of money and property received from the Library Fund
and other sources, and how such moneys have been expended and for what
purposes;
   (C)   The budget for the Library for the next fiscal year;
   (D)   Statistics on the general character and number of books and
periodicals which:
      (1)   Are on hand;
      (2)   Are lost or missing;
      (3)   Have been added by purchase, gift or otherwise during the year; and
      (4)   Have been loaned out during the year.
   (E)   The number of persons making use of the Library during the year; and
   (F)   Such other information, statistics and suggestions as it may deem of
general interest.
(1999 Code, § 95.05) (Ord. 41, passed 2-5-1979)
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
96.001   Definitions
   
96.002   Authority of city
   
96.003   Public nuisances defined
   
96.004   Nuisances prohibited
   
96.005   Liability for nuisances
   
96.006   Time passage does not legalize nuisance
   
96.007   Remedies against public nuisance
   
96.008   Remedies against private nuisance
   
96.009   Summary abatement
   
96.010   Abatement by city lawsuit
   
96.011   Abatement procedures cumulative
Selected Nuisances
   
96.025   Littering
Abandoned Vehicles
   
96.040   Definitions
   
96.041   Abandonment of vehicles
   
96.042   Leaving of wrecked, nonoperating vehicle in street
   
96.043   Disposition of wrecked or discarded vehicles
   
96.044   Impounding
   
96.045   Ice boxes and the like
Weeds and Trash
   
96.060   Trash and weeds prohibited
   
96.061   Definitions
   
96.062   Exemption
   
96.063   Abatement procedures
   
96.064   Administrative fees
Health Nuisances
   
96.075   Health nuisances
   
96.076   Officers may enter premises
   
96.077   Abatement of public nuisances
 
   
96.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances, see 50 O.S. §§ 1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty or any
thing or condition which either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   NUISANCE, PRIVATE. Every nuisance not a public nuisance is a PRIVATE
NUISANCE.
   NUISANCE, PUBLIC. A nuisance which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
(50 O.S. §§ 1 through 3) (1999 Code, § 96.01)
§ 96.002 AUTHORITY OF CITY.
   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the city has power to determine what is and
what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water supply,
outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the city
has power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner and an
opportunity for him or her to be heard, if this can be done.
(50 O.S. § 16) (1999 Code, § 96.02)
§ 96.003 PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this title, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   The sale, or offering for sale, of unwholesome food or drink; or
the keeping of a place hereby declared to be public nuisances;
      (2)   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the city; or keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinances of the city;
      (3)   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      (4)   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      (5)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or ordinance are practiced;
      (6)   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      (7)   Carrying on or conducting any business, trade, manufacturing,
employment or other activity which causes noxious, injurious or offensive odors
or fumes; or which emits or causes or is accompanied by loud, annoying or
offensive language or noises; or which is injurious or dangerous to the health
or safety of others, or which creates a public health or safety hazard;
      (8)   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal that makes such noises;
      (9)   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially and unduly interferes with radio or television reception of others;
      (10)   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance;
      (11)   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow
to fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      (12)   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers or water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed;
      (13)   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things, which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin or disease germs;
      (14)   Any building or structure that is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition;
      (15)   Any pit, hole or other thing which is constructed, formed,
conditioned and/or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (16)   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      (17)   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, safety, morals or welfare; and
      (18)   GRAFFITI is defined as the unauthorized spraying of paint or
marking of ink, chalk, dye or other similar substances on public and private
buildings, structures and places. The existence of graffiti or the act of
placing graffiti on any real or personal property, of altering or defacing any
real or personal property of another without their consent through the use of
paint, spray paint, markers, objects or other substances capable of destroying
property which is offensive to a reasonably sensitive person. The following
acts are prohibited:
         (a)   To apply graffiti upon any surface, either publicly or privately
owned, without the permission of the owner, lessee or person in legal
possession;
         (b)   To have graffiti on property which can be seen from the public
right-of-way;
         (c)   To have graffiti on property which can be seen from private
property upon which a complaint has been made; or
         (d)   To have graffiti on property which causes a depreciation of the
property values or is detrimental to neighborhoods.
   (B)   Any of the above acts shall constitute a public nuisance and shall be
abated as set out in this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 96.03) (Ord. 2010-8, passed 1-10-2011) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.004 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person (owner, lessee or other) to create or maintain
a nuisance within the city, or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under
his or her control within the city.
(1999 Code, § 96.04) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.005 LIABILITY FOR NUISANCES.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property created by a former owner is
liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(1999 Code, § 96.05)
§ 96.006 TIME PASSAGE DOES NOT LEGALIZE NUISANCE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of a public right.
(50 O.S. § 7) (1999 Code, § 96.06)
§ 96.007 REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The remedies against public nuisances are:
   (A)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
   (B)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
   (C)   Civil action; and
   (D)   Abatement:
      (1)   By a person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
      (2)   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance.
(50 O.S. § 8) (1999 Code, § 96.07)
§ 96.008 REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCE.
   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
   (A)   Civil action; and
   (B)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
      (2)   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance.
(1999 Code, § 96.08)
§ 96.009 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be
such as to justify and even to require the Mayor or other appropriate officer
or agency of the city government to take immediate and proper action summarily
to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more
deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police, the City
Attorney, the Building Inspector, the Electrical Inspector, the Plumbing
Inspector or any other officer subordinate to the Mayor may submit, through or
with the consent of the Mayor to the City Council, a statement as to the
existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the city or law, and a
request or recommendation that it be abated. The Mayor himself or herself, the
Health Officer, any Council member, or any resident or residents of the city
may submit such a statement and request or recommendation to the City Council.
   (C)   The Council shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is a
nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the subject, the
Council shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers and
other effects. Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or have it abated, the
Council shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner
of any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed responsible
for or to be causing the nuisance and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if
such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the
owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by
service by a police officer if their names and addresses are known, but, if the
names or addresses are not known and the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be
published in a paper of general circulation within the city.
   (D)   If the Council finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it shall
direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if
the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate
it within the specified time, the Council shall direct the Mayor to abate the
nuisance or to have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized
by 50 O.S. § 16. The City Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such
summary abatement to the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing
the nuisance as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and
addresses are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the city
collectible as other debts of the city may be collected.
(1999 Code, § 96.09)
§ 96.010 ABATEMENT BY CITY LAWSUIT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the
city may bring suit in the District Court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
(1999 Code, § 96.10)
§ 96.011 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other,
and the city may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in
abating any particular nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 96.11)
SELECTED NUISANCES
§ 96.025 LITTERING.
   It is further declared to be unlawful for any person to litter any public or
private street, alley, driveway, parking lot or other property not his or her
own by throwing, dropping, laying or leaving bottles, cans, waste paper, trash
or other refuse in or upon such public or private property.
(1999 Code, § 96.28) Penalty, see §
96.999
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 96.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 96.041 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 1-10-2011) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.042 LEAVING OF WRECKED, NONOPERATING VEHICLE IN STREET.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked or
junked vehicle or vehicle with an expired license tag on any street or highway
within the city.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 1-10-2011) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.043 DISPOSITION OF WRECKED OR DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city,
whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any
partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked or junked, or discarded vehicle or
vehicle with an expired license tag to remain on such property.
   (B)   The owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise of any vehicle as
provided in this section shall first be given notice in writing or notice
posted on a vehicle to remove such dismantled, non operating, wrecked, junked
or discarded vehicle or unlicensed vehicle from their property. If such owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow such vehicle to remain on
said property longer than 72 hours after the expiration or written notice, the
Chief of Police or other officer shall cause the vehicle to be impounded as
provided.
   (C)   Except that this subchapter shall not apply with regard to a vehicle
in an enclosed building; a vehicle on the premises of a business or enterprise
operated in a lawful place and in a lawful manner, when necessary to the
operation of such business or enterprise; or a vehicle in an appropriate
storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the
city.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 1-10-2011) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.044 IMPOUNDING.
   The Chief of Police, or other appropriate official, or any member of the
Police Department designated by the Chief of Police, is hereby authorized to
remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place in the city which
reasonably appears to be in violation of this chapter or lost, stolen or
unclaimed; or whenever the driver or the person in charge of any vehicle is
placed under arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under
circumstances which leave or will leave a vehicle unattended on public
property, the vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of
in accordance with applicable ordinances. A Police Department record of the
impoundment and disposition of vehicles under this subchapter shall be
completed and retained and shall contain a description of the vehicle including
its condition, the circumstances of the impoundment, and an inventory of all
personal property contained in the vehicle.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 96.045 ICE BOXES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or the occupant of a residential
building, structure or property to utilize the city rights-of-way for street or
alley purposes, or other city-owned property adjacent to said residential
building, structure or property for the purpose of storing any abandoned motor
vehicle, icebox, refrigerator or other building rubbish or similar items. It
shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any residential building,
structure or other property to utilize or use city premises including rights-
of-way for alleys and streets of such residential property for the use as a
place of repair for any automobiles or other household appliances. It shall be
the duty and responsibility of such owner or occupant of such residential
property to remove from the city premises, including rights-of-way, all such
abandoned items as listed above which were placed on the said property by the
owner or occupant.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, an ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is defined
as one that is in a state of disrepair and incapable of being moved under its
own power.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 1-10-2011) Penalty, see §
96.999
WEEDS AND TRASH
§ 96.060 TRASH AND WEEDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to allow the accumulation of trash or the growth of
weeds upon any property to include adjoining alleyways, street rights-of-way or
easements in the city.
(Ord. 2010-9, passed 1-10-2011) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEANING. The removal of trash from property.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustibles,
rubbish, offal or waste of any kind or form which is uncared for, discarded or
abandoned.
   WEED.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
products for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location, constitute a detriment
to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said weeds;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard;
         (f)   Is dead or diseased;
         (g)   Is on any adjoining statutory, dedicated or accepted street
right-of-way;
         (h)   Is on any adjoining dedicated or accepted easement; or
         (i)   Is on any adjoining dedicated or accepted alleyway.
      (2)   The term WEED shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(Ord. 2010-9, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 96.062 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any property zoned and
used for agricultural purposes.
(Ord. 2010-9, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 96.063 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   The City Mayor, or his or her designee, may cause property within the city
limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds and grass, to be cut or mowed, in
accordance with the following procedures.
   (A)   At least ten days’ notice shall be given to the owner of the property
by mail at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the County
Treasurer’s office or posted on property, or handed to owner, occupant, owner’s
agent or the property manager, before the City Mayor, or his or her designee,
holds a hearing or takes action. The notice shall order the property owner to
clean the property of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the
property, as appropriate, and said notice shall further state that unless such
work is performed within ten days of the date of the notice the work shall be
done by the city, and a notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk
against the property for the costs due and owing the city. At the time of the
mailing of the notice to the property owner, the city shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of the
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if the property owner
cannot be located within ten days from the date of mailing, notice may be given
by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication, as defined
in 11 O.S. § 1-102, one time not less than ten days prior to any hearing or
action by the City Mayor, or his or her designee. If the City Mayor, or his or
her designee, anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in accordance with
the provisions of division (G) below, the notice, whether by mail or
publication, shall state, that any accumulation of trash or excessive weed or
grass growth on the owner’s property occurring within six months from and after
the date of this notice may be summarily abated by the municipal governing
body; that the costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the owner; and
that a lien may be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without
further prior notice to the property owner.
   (B)   The owner of the property may give his or her written consent to the
City Mayor, or his or her designee, authorizing the removal of the trash or the
mowing of the weeds or grass and consenting to the payment of the actual cost
of such removal as provided by an estimate provided by the City Mayor or his or
her designee. By giving said written consent, the owner waives his or her right
to a hearing.
   (C)   A hearing may be held by the City Mayor, or his or her designee, to
determine whether the condition of this property meets the definition of §
96.061 and whether the condition of this property has become detrimental to the
health, benefit and welfare of the public and the community or a hazard to
traffic, or creates a fire hazard to the danger of the property.
   (D)   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property will be benefitted by the removal of
such conditions, the City Mayor or his or her designee shall be granted the
right of entry on the property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or
grass, and performance of such necessary duties as the governmental function of
the city. Immediately following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the
City Clerk shall file a notice of lien with the County Clerk describing the
property and the work performed by the municipality, and stating that the city
claims a lien on said property for the cleaning and/or mowing costs.
   (E)   The City Mayor, or his or her designee, shall determine the actual
cost of such cleaning and mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in
connection therewith, including the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk
shall forward, by mail, to the owner specified in division (A) above, a
statement of such actual cost and demanding payment. If the cleaning and mowing
are done by the City, the cost to the owner for said cleaning and mowing shall
not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance and equipment required. If
the cleaning and mowing are done on a private contract basis, the work shall be
done by a vendor maintained on a certified list by the City Mayor, and such
vendor shall be selected on a rotating basis, Should the estimate for the work
exceed the sum of $2,000, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best
bidder under the provisions of the State Competitive Bidding Law, being 61 O.S.
§§ 101 et seq.
   (F)   (1)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer of the county in which the
property is located and the same shall be levied on the property and collected
by the County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. Until fully paid, the
cost and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property
owner from and after the date the cost is certified to the County Treasurer. In
addition, the cost and interest thereon shall be a lien against the property
from the date the cost is certified to the County Treasurer, co-equal with the
liens of ad valorem taxes and all other titles and liens against the property,
and the lien shall continue until the costs are paid in full.
      (2)   At any time prior to the collection as provided in this division
(F), the city may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing
and interest thereon, including an action in personam against the property
owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the property. A
mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest, and not owned by the
surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created
pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, if any, the City Clerk shall
forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and directing
discharge of the lien.
   (G)   If the City Mayor, or his or her designee, causes property within the
city limits to be cleaned and weeds or grass to be mowed or cut in accordance
with the procedure provided for in divisions (A) through (F) above, any
subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the
property occurring within a six-month period may be declared to be a nuisance
and may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the owner. At the
time of each summary abatement, the city shall notify the owner of the
abatement and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the owner may
request a hearing within the next ten days after the date of mailing the
notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in division (A) above.
Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be
determined and collected as provided for in divisions (E) and (F) above;
provided however that this division (G) shall not apply if the records of the
County Clerk show the property was transferred after notice was given pursuant
to division (A) above.
   (H)   The owner of any property shall have the right to appeal to the City
Council any order of the City Mayor, or his or her designee, as specified in
divisions (A) through (G) above and such an appeal shall be taken by filing
written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten days after the order of
the City Mayor or his or her designee is rendered.
   (I)   If written notice of appeal is filed within ten days of the City Mayor
or his or her designee’s decision, the matter shall be heard by the City
Council for final decision.
(Ord. 2010-9, passed 1-10-2011) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.064 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   In addition to penalties provided in this chapter, an administrative fee of
$150 shall be charged and assessed against the owner. An additional fee of $75
shall be charged and assessed against the owner if the property has been
previously abated. The fee shall be in addition to all costs incurred for
abatement.
(Ord. 2010-9, passed 1-10-2011)
HEALTH NUISANCES
§ 96.075 HEALTH NUISANCES.
   (A)   Prohibited. No owner or occupant of any premises shall allow thereon
any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conductive to the breeding of
insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any
other condition adversely affecting the public health. Any such condition is
hereby declared a health nuisance and may be abated as provided in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Abatement order. Whenever the Director of the County Health Department
or any of its authorized representatives finds any of the health nuisances
specified in division (A) above upon any premises within city limits, he or she
shall have the owner or occupant of such premises, at his or her own expense,
to abate the health nuisance within 24 hours, or within such other time as
might be reasonable, and failure to do so shall constitute an offense. Such
order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the owner or occupant
of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, or a copy thereof may be left at
the last usual place of abode of such owner, occupant or agent, if known and
within the state, if the premises are unoccupied and the residence of such
owner, occupant or agent is unknown, or is without the state, such order may be
served by posting a copy thereof on the premises, or by publication in at least
one issue of a newspaper having general circulation within the county. If the
order of abatement is not complied with, the Mayor, or his or her designee, may
cause the order to be executed by the city and the city shall collect the costs
of such execution as provided by this section.
   (C)   Collection of costs. If it is necessary for the Director or his or her
authorized representative to execute the order of abatement as provided in this
subchapter, the Director of the County Health Department shall certify the cost
of abatement to the City Clerk, and to the owner, occupant or agent of the
property on which the condition existed. Such notice of cost shall be served in
accordance with the procedure provided for in the service of orders of
abatement, and shall grant the owner, occupant or agent 20 days in which to pay
the cost to the City Clerk. Then the City Clerk shall certify the costs to the
County Clerk who shall add them to the ad valorem taxes assessed against the
property. The costs shall then be a lien against the property until paid, and
shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem taxes against the property.
Upon collection of the costs, they shall be paid to the city for reimbursements
of the funds used to pay such costs.
   (D)   Subchapter supplemental; emergency actions.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be supplemental to all
ordinances.
      (2)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not prohibit the immediate
abatement or confiscation by an officer of the city or his or her authorized
representative, if conditions exist which threaten to imperil or endanger the
immediate health of the public.
(Ord. 2010-8, passed 1-10-2011) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.076 OFFICERS MAY ENTER PREMISES.
   (A)   Some public nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the public peace, health, safety, morals or welfare. It is
recognized that circumstances may be as such to justify, and even require, the
City Mayor or other appropriate officer or agency of the city government to
take immediate and proper action to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or
suspend said danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such
abatement.
   (B)   The City Mayor, the officers and employees of the Health Department,
the Police Department and the Fire Department, and city officers and employees
concerned with inspection of buildings, plumbing and electrical or other
installations, may enter any structure or premises at any reasonable time to
determine whether any hazard to life, property or public welfare or any public
nuisance exists.
(Ord. 2010-8, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 96.077 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police, the City
Attorney, the City Health Officer, the Building Inspector, the Electrical
Inspector, the Plumbing Inspector or any other officer subordinate to the City
Mayor, may submit, through or with the consent of the City Mayor, to the City
Council, a statement as to the existence of a public nuisance as defined in §
96.001 or any other section of this code, and a request or recommendation that
it may be abated. The City Mayor himself or herself, any Council member or any
resident or residents of the city may submit such a statement and request or
recommendation to the City Council. The Council shall determine whether or not
the alleged public nuisance is a public nuisance in fact. For the purpose of
gathering evidence on the subject, the Council shall have the power to subpoena
and examine witnesses, books, papers and other effects. Before proceeding to
abate the nuisance or to have it abated, the Council shall give notice of a
hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of any property concerned and to
any persons alleged or deemed responsible for or to be causing the public
nuisance, and an adequate opportunity to be heard if such notice and
opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the owner and other
persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by service by a police
officer if their names and addresses are known; but, if their names and
addresses are not known, and the public peace, health, safety, morals and
welfare would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the
hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city.
   (B)   If the Council finds that a public nuisance does in fact exist, it
shall direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the
public nuisance to abate it within a specified time if the public interest
would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay; or if the owner or
other persons responsible for or causing the public nuisance do not abate it
within the specified time, the Council shall direct the City Mayor to abate the
public nuisance or to have it abated if summary abatement is practical. The
City Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary abatement to the
owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance, as may be
just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses are known. Until
paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the city collectible as other debts
may be collected.
   (C)   If the owner or other persons responsible for a public nuisance does
not abate it as directed, and if summary abatement is deemed impractical, the
Council by resolution shall direct the bringing of a suit to the District Court
to abate the public nuisance.
   (D)   The procedures for abating or dealing with public nuisances as
prescribed in this section, shall be cumulative and in addition to any other
procedures authorized by law or ordinance.
(Ord. 2010-8, passed 1-10-2011) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance, an
offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any such
provision, or who fails to do any act when such provision declares such failure
to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, or who violates any legal
order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, or who maintains any
nuisance as defined in this chapter, is guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
96.040 through
96.045 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction there of
shall be punished as set forth in division (A) above. Each day such violation
is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   (C)   In addition to the abatement procedure set forth in §
96.063, any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
96.060 through
96.064 shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction for such violation
shall be punished as set forth in division (A) above.
   (D)   Every person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of
§§
96.075 through
96.077 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as set forth in §
10.99. Each day a violation continues, after due notice has been served in
accordance with the terms and provisions hereof, shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(1999 Code, § 96.99) (Ord. 2010-8, passed 1-10-2011; Ord. 2010-9, passed 1-10-
2011; Ord. 2010-11, passed 1-10-2011)
CHAPTER 97: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Bench mark established
   
97.02   Datum plane
Use and Obstruction of Streets and Sidewalks
   
97.15   Trees and shrubbery
   
97.16   Business use of streets and the like
   
97.17   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks
   
97.18   Trash
   
97.19   Playing on streets and sidewalks
   
97.20   Water and other fluids
   
97.21   Sidewalk hazards; liability
Excavations
   
97.35   Permit required; fee
   
97.36   Bond
   
97.37   Barricades
   
97.38   Liability in excess of bond amount
Cross-reference:
Offenses against public authority; removal of barricades or obstructions, see §
134.08
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01 BENCH MARK ESTABLISHED.
   The block placed at the immediate corner of the First National Bank Building
and marked “Bench Mark, City of Hooker”, level 100, shall be and the same is
hereby established as a permanent bench mark for said city.
(1999 Code, § 97.01)
§ 97.02 DATUM PLANE.
   All ordinances referring to streets, curbing, paving, grading and
elevations, water mains and laterals, and sewer mains and laterals where
elevations or vertical distances are given shall have reference to said datum
plane, and elevations or vertical distances given in feet shall signify so many
feet above said datum plane, unless otherwise expressed.
(1999 Code, § 97.02)
USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 97.15 TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   Trees and shrubbery to be trimmed.
      (1)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of this city shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. When such premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinbefore required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
      (2)   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses or neglects to trim trees
and shrubbery as provided in division (A) above, after receiving five days’
notice from the Mayor or Street Superintendent to do so, shall be guilty of an
offense against the city. Every day that the owner or occupant fails, refuses
or neglects to trim such trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of five days’
notice, shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Unlawful to injure trees and shrubbery. It is unlawful for any person
to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or alley in the city, provided that
this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper care and removal of such trees
and shrubbery.
(1999 Code, § 97.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.16 BUSINESS USE OF STREETS AND THE LIKE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct, erect,
place, operate, maintain or permit to exist any icebox, ice dock, gasoline
pump, gasoline storage reservoir, tire rack, tire tools or equipment, water
hose connection or mercantile business, or any tools, stand, equipment,
merchandise or appurtenances thereof, aerials, poles or wires therefor, whether
permanent or temporary, or any other obstruction, upon any part of any street,
alley, boulevard, parkway, curbing or parking within the city.
(1999 Code, § 97.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.17 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to use or obstruct the sidewalks of the city
in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon, or to
use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the city in any manner so as to
interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(1999 Code, § 97.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.18 TRASH.
   It is unlawful for any person to deposit, throw or sweep into or upon a
street, alley, parking or sidewalk of the city any paper, rubbish, grass,
weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or other refuse of any kind.
(1999 Code, § 97.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.19 PLAYING ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on the sidewalks or upon the main-
traveled portion of the streets and alleys of the city, except as may be
authorized by ordinance.
(1999 Code, § 97.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.20 WATER AND OTHER FLUIDS.
   (A)   Water, mud and the like from vehicle not to drain onto street. No
automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any place within the city where
the water, dirt, mud or other substances removed therefrom by or during the
washing thereof will drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of the city.
   (B)   Water and the like from filling stations and other businesses. It is
unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place of
business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or
other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking,
street, alley or other public way.
   (C)   Water from air conditioners and the like. It is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to permit water from any air conditioner, cooler or
hydrant to drain upon any sidewalk, street, gutter, alley or pavement within
the city.
(1999 Code, § 97.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances enumerated, see §
96.003
§ 97.21 SIDEWALK HAZARDS; LIABILITY.
   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to
the property to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
(1999 Code, § 97.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 97.35 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Prior to any building, construction, digging or excavating, an
application shall be made to the City Clerk who will then have the city’s code
enforcement officer review the application and determine if the proposed action
falls in compliance with city codes. Such application shall give all necessary
details in connection with proposed construction, digging or excavation; a full
description of the exact location where such work is contemplated, and such
other information as may be required. Such application and permit shall be made
on forms prescribed by the City Clerk and a fee of $34.50 shall be charged for
the permit. The permit shall be in effect for one year commencing from the date
of approval.
   (B)   Prior to digging, ditching or any kind of excavation on any property,
the occupant and/or owner of the property inside the city limits, for the
purpose of utilities, building, and construction must also call OKIE ONE CALL
(811) (“Call Before You Dig”) to report proposed action; a description of the
exact location where such work is contemplated and such other information as
may be required. “ONE CALL” will contact all utility and phone servers
including other companies with underground lines who will locate lines to the
property for safety. The lines will be located up to the owner’s property line.
(1999 Code, § 97.35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.36 BOND.
   In addition to the permit required in §
97.35, a bond, cash or surety to the city in an amount of not less than $300
conditioned on the replacement of the pavement, curbing, guttering and sidewalk
in as good a condition as they were prior to the ditching through of such
street, sidewalk or alley may be required. The bond shall be in force and
effect for a period of two years from the date of the permit. At the end of
that time, on proper application, the bond may be withdrawn, provided that the
City Clerk certifies to the fact that the replaced paving, curbing and/or
sidewalk appears to be in as good a condition as it would have been had it not
been ditched through or otherwise disturbed. Otherwise, the city shall use the
bond money so deposited for the repair of the street, alley or sidewalk so
ditched through or otherwise disturbed; provided, however, that if, in the
judgment of the City Clerk, a $300 bond will be insufficient to repair the
damage likely to occur, then he or she may require a bond in an amount which in
his or her opinion will be sufficient to repair the damaged street, and
provided, further, however, that any party aggrieved by the decision of the
City Clerk shall have the right to appeal such decision to the Mayor and
Council and in all cases its decision shall be final.
(1999 Code, § 97.36)
§ 97.37 BARRICADES.
   In addition to the bond required, any party seeking a permit as herein
provided must also agree to erect suitable and plainly marked barriers
sufficient to advise and restrain the public from the use of the portion of the
sidewalk, alley or street being ditched through or otherwise disturbed.
(1999 Code, § 97.37)
§ 97.38 LIABILITY IN EXCESS OF BOND AMOUNT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to relieve any person from
liability he or she has incurred by reason of damage to the streets, alleys and
sidewalks in a greater amount than the bond which such party has posted.
(1999 Code, § 97.38)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   HAZARDOUS BUSINESSES
      
113.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Licensing
   
110.01   Applicability to ex-service persons
   
110.02   License tax for certain businesses
   
110.03   Licenses
   
110.04   License display
   
110.05   License revocation
   
110.06   License transferability
   
110.07   License replacement; fee
General Regulations and Restrictions
   
110.20   Weights and measures
   
110.21   Loudspeakers and the like; permits
LICENSING
§ 110.01 APPLICABILITY TO EX-SERVICE PERSONS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in other ordinances of the city shall be deemed
to require ex-service persons to secure a license or pay a license fee for
engaging in a business, occupation or privilege when he or she is exempted
therefrom by 72 O.S. §§ 1 through 6 or other provisions of state law.
(1999 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 110.02 LICENSE TAX FOR CERTAIN BUSINESSES.
   A business license procured through the City Clerk’s office is hereby levied
on every business engaging in exercising or pursuing any business, profession,
trade, occupation or privileges in this city, in the amounts respectively
indicated.
   (A)   The City Clerk’s office must have on file a copy of the business’s
sales tax permit. After a business owner or operator applies for a business
license and follows the requirement, a license will then be issued to the
business from the city.
   (B)   A license tax is hereby levied on every person engaging in, exercising
or pursuing any of the following businesses, professions, trades, occupations
or privileges in this city, in the amounts respectively indicated: for each
itinerant peddler, solicitor or photographer, $10 per day, $20 per week, $50
per month, or $75 annually; provided that this shall not apply to persons
selling farm or garden produce produced by themselves in the county or any
county adjacent thereto.
   (C)   A license tax is hereby levied on outdoor advertisement (billboards)
in the city: for initial permit application, $50; for permit renewal
(biennial), $20; (new) outdoor advertising license, $200; for outdoor
advertising license renewal, $100; and for late license filing with renewal due
date of June 30 of each year, $25 penalty.
(1999 Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 12-1-2008; Ord. 2011-4, passed 9-6-
2011)
§ 110.03 LICENSES.
   (A)   Licenses required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in,
exercise or pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege for
which a license tax is levied by §
110.02 or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without paying the
license tax, and securing and possessing a valid license therefore.
   (B) Issuance of license. Upon making proper application to the City Clerk,
the payment of the license tax and fulfillment of any other condition which may
be prescribed by law or ordinance, the City Clerk shall issue a license
therefore. Such license taxes shall be credited to the General Fund of the
city.
   (C)   Term of license; tax amount. Annual licenses shall expire December 31
of the year for which they are issued. When an annual license is issued after
August 31 of the year to a person just beginning to engage in, exercise or
pursue a business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, the January 1
deadline will be waived for one time, with that person renewing the business
license on or before December 31 one year from the date they have received a
business license.
   (D)   Separate licenses required. Every person who engages in, exercises or
pursues a business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a
license is required, at or from more than one place in the city, or who engages
in, exercises or pursues more than one such business, profession, trade,
occupation or privilege, shall pay the fee and secure a separate license, for
each such place or for each such business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege.
(1999 Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 12-1-2008; Ord. 2011-4, passed 9-6-
2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE DISPLAY.
   Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his or her place of business or activity,
shall carry the license and shall display it to any person who requests to see
it, provided that, in lieu of the above manner of displaying such licenses,
when licenses are required for coin-operated music or amusement devices,
vending machines and similar devices and equipment, the license may be placed
on or attached to such device or equipment in such position and manner that it
will be clearly visible and shall be so placed or attached if the license so
states on its face. It is unlawful to fail or refuse to display the license as
required in this section.
(1999 Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Any license issued by the city to any person to engage in, exercise or
pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege may be revoked
by the Council after adequate opportunity for a hearing, for the following
reasons:
   (A)   The licensee is engaging in, exercising or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege in such a manner that he or she has
created or is creating a public nuisance as defined by 50 O.S. §§ 1 and 2; or
   (B)   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 110.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   The assignment or transfer of licenses is prohibited in 11 O.S. § 22-107,
and hence assignment or transfer or licenses shall not be permitted in this
city.
(1999 Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 110.07 LICENSE REPLACEMENT; FEE.
   (A)   Whenever any license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege has been lost or destroyed without
any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the City Clerk, on application,
shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time.
   (B)   The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the City Clerk,
shall be $10.
(1999 Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 12-1-2008)
GENERAL REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 110.20 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any food, fuel,
clothing or any other commodity which does not weigh or measure fully as much,
according to standard weights or measures of the state, as the weight or
measure for which it is sold or offered for sale.
(1999 Code, § 110.20) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Unwholesome food; misbranded food, see 94.05
§ 110.21 LOUDSPEAKERS AND THE LIKE; PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person or persons, firm or
corporation to operate any public address system, loud speaker or mechanical
voice amplifier on the streets of the city or on the outside of any building in
the city.
   (B)   Application for permit. Any person, persons, firm or corporation
desiring to use or operate a public address system, a loud speaker or any
mechanical voice amplifier upon the streets of the city or on the outside of
any building in the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. shall
first make a written application to the City Council by filing the same with
the City Clerk, stating the hours during which the applicant desires to operate
the public address system, loud speaker or mechanical voice amplifier, and the
location thereof, The application shall be acted upon by the City Council at
its next regular meeting or at an adjourned meeting or a special meeting called
for that purpose.
(1999 Code, § 110.21) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Occupation tax
   
111.03   Annual report of City Clerk
   
111.04   Certificates of compliance; fee
   
111.05   Hours of sale and operation
   
111.06   Age-related offenses
   
111.07   Advertising
   
111.08   Sales and consumption
   
111.09   Location of alcohol-related businesses
   
111.10   Transportation of alcoholic beverages
   
111.11   Hours of wholesale sale and delivery
   
111.12   Intoxicated persons not to be permitted in restaurants and the like
   
111.13   Regulating the sale of low-point beer and alcoholic beverages for in-
site consumption
Nonintoxicating Beverages
   
111.25   Definitions
   
111.26   Hours of sale
   
111.27   Prohibited sales and conduct
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Nuisances enumerated; alcohol sales and the like, see §
96.003
Alcohol-related offenses, see § 131.11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All of the terms and phrases used in this chapter shall be given the
same use and meaning as defined by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act,
37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
   (B)   All references in this chapter to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board shall be deemed to mean the ABLE Commission.
(1999 Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 69, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 72, passed 1-6-1986)
§ 111.02 OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Occupation tax levied.
      (1)   There is hereby levied an annual occupation tax upon each person,
firm or corporation engaged within this city in any of the following
occupations hereinafter named, in the following sums respectively set opposite
the designation of each occupation:
Occupation Tax
Occupation         Tax
Brewer             $1,000
Class B wholesaler $500
Distiller          $2,500
Oklahoma winemaker $50
Package store      $100
Rectifier          $2,500
Wholesaler         $2,000
Winemaker          $500
 
      (2)   The above occupation taxes for brewer and Class B wholesaler shall
be reduced by 75% if the licensee is also holder of a state license to
manufacture or wholesale, as the case may be, any nonintoxicating malt
beverages as provided in the state statutes.
   (B)   Payment required.
      (1)   Any state licensee originally entering upon any occupation herein
listed shall pay the tax therefor at the office of the City Clerk on or before
the date upon which he or she enters upon such occupation. Said licensee shall
provide a copy of his or her current state license before payment of an
occupation tax will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the tax
annually on or before April 1.
      (2)   The occupation tax subject to this section shall be prorated on a
monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins operations.
      (3)   Upon payment of the said occupation tax, the City Clerk shall issue
a receipt to said state licensee, which said licensee shall post in a
conspicuous place on the premises wherein he or she carries on his or her
occupation.
      (4)   Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by this
section without paying said occupation tax imposed therefor in advance of such
operation is guilty of an offense against the city and upon conviction thereof
shall be penalized as provided in §
111.99.
   (C)   Expiration date; proration.
      (1)   All occupation tax levies under the provisions of this section
expire on March 31 of each year.
      (2)   The amount of any occupation tax levied shall be computed pro rata
upon the months remaining in the year ending March 31 following. Such taxes
paid on or before the fifteenth day of any month shall be on the basis of the
first day of the month, and such taxes paid after the fifteenth day of any
month shall be on the basis of the first day of the next succeeding month.
   (D)   Not to operate until tax has been paid. No brewer, distiller,
winemaker, Oklahoma winemaker, rectifier, wholesaler, Class B wholesaler or
retail package store shall do business, or offer to do business, in this city
until the occupation tax levied by this section has been paid in full to the
City Clerk and receipt issued therefor.
(1999 Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 69, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 72, passed 1-6-1986; Ord.
92, passed 12-7-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 ANNUAL REPORT OF CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall make an annual report to the ABLE Commission covering
the fiscal year and showing the number and class of licensees subject to the
occupation tax and the amount of money collected from said tax.
(1999 Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 69, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 72, passed 1-6-1986)
§ 111.04 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE; FEE.
   (A)   Application for certificate; investigations.
      (1)   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the zoning,
fire, health and safety codes of this city required by 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et
seq. shall apply at the office of the City Clerk by:
         (a)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
         (b)   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount of $20
at the time of filing.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance the
City Clerk shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the
premises proposed for licensed operations comply with the provisions of the
zoning ordinance and any health, fire, building and other safety codes
applicable to it.
      (3)   The city shall act on all such applications within 20 days of
receipt thereof.
   (B)   Issuance of certificates.
      (1)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate
are in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of
zoning shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
      (2)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate
are in compliance with all applicable fire, safety and health codes, a
certificate of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
      (3)   The above certificates of compliance shall be signed by the Mayor
or by the City Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 69, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 72, passed 1-6-1986)
§ 111.05 HOURS OF SALE AND OPERATION.
   (A)   No package store licensee shall sell or keep a package store premises
open for the purpose of selling any alcoholic beverages at any hour other than
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
   (B)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold, dispensed, served or consumed on
the premises of a mixed drink beverage licensee between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 10:00 a.m. No licensee shall permit any person who has in his or her
possession an open container, having as its contents a non-intoxicating or
intoxicating alcoholic beverage, to remain in a mixed beverage establishment
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. No person having in his or her
possession an open container, having as its contents low-point beer or an
intoxicating alcoholic beverage, shall remain in a mixed beverage establishment
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. For the purpose of this section,
the term OPEN CONTAINER shall mean any receptacle containing a non-intoxicating
or intoxicating alcoholic beverage and includes the original container of the
beverage where the original seal has been broken or opened.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) of this section shall not apply to the
licensee of such mixed beverage establishment, musicians loading or unloading
instruments or performing or rehearsing for performances to be held on such
premises, construction workers and maintenance and repair personnel performing
their individual trades upon the premises, or delivery persons making
deliveries to the premises.
(37 O.S. § 591) (1999 Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 69, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 72,
passed 1-6-1986) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 AGE-RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person under the age of 21 years to be
employed in the selling or handling of alcoholic beverages within this city.
   (B)   It is an offense to sell, furnish or give any alcoholic beverage to
any person under 21 years of age, or to any intoxicated, insane or mentally
deficient person.
   (C)   It is an offense to permit any person under 21 years of age to enter
into, remain within or loiter about the premises of any retail package store.
   (D)   It is an offense for any person to misrepresent his or her age in
writing or by presenting false documentation of age for the purpose of inducing
any person to sell him or her an alcoholic beverage.
(1999 Code, § 111.06) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 ADVERTISING.
   It is an offense for any person to advertise, or cause to be advertised, in
any manner, the sale of alcoholic beverages, except as specifically permitted
by the provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et
seq.
(1999 Code, § 111.07) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 SALES AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Separate premises required. It is an offense for any person to
maintain, operate or assist in any manner in the maintenance or operation of a
retail package store unless the premises are separated from adjoining premises
on which any other goods, wares or merchandise is sold or services are
rendered, by nontransparent walls, broken only, if at all, by a passageway to
which the public is not admitted.
   (B)   Beverage not to be taken through passageway for sale. It is an offense
for any person to take any alcoholic beverage through any passageway described
in division (A) above for the purpose of selling or reselling such beverage, or
for the purpose of delivery thereof in connection with a sale of such
beverages.
   (C)   How beverage is to be sold; not to consume on premises.
      (1)   It is an offense for any person to sell or deliver any alcoholic
beverages at a retail alcoholic beverage store other than:
         (a)   In retail containers;
         (b)   At ordinary room temperatures;
         (c)   In the original package; and
         (d)   For consumption off the premises.
      (2)   It is an offense for any person to permit any alcoholic beverage to
be consumed, or any retail container of such beverage to be broken or opened,
on the premises of any retail package store.
   (D)   Person not to consume on premises. It is an offense for any person to
drink or consume in any manner any alcoholic beverage on the premises of a
retail alcoholic beverage store or to open or break the seal of any original
package or retail container containing alcoholic beverages on such premises.
   (E)   To be sold only in retail stores and the like. It is an offense for
any person to sell at retail, or to deliver in consequence or in completion of
any such a sale, any alcoholic beverages at or to any place in the city except
at a retail alcoholic beverage store, in strict conformity with this subchapter
and the laws of this state.
   (F)   Not to sell on credit. It is an offense for any person to sell at
retail, or to sell at any retail alcoholic beverage store, any alcoholic
beverage on credit.
   (G)   Not to give prizes and the like. It is an offense for any person to
offer or to furnish any prize, premium, gift or similar inducement to any
customer or consumer in connection with the sale or attempted sale of any
alcoholic beverage.
(1999 Code, § 111.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 LOCATION OF ALCOHOL-RELATED BUSINESSES.
   It is an offense for any person to own, operate, maintain or be interested
in any manner in any establishment mentioned in §
111.02(A)(1) at a place within the city which is forbidden as a location for
such establishment by the laws of this state or by the ordinances of this city.
(1999 Code, § 111.09) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 TRANSPORTATION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It is an offense for any person to transport in any vehicle upon any public
highway, street or alley any alcoholic beverage, unless such alcoholic beverage
is:
   (A)   In an unopened original container with seal unbroken and the original
cap or cork not removed from the container; or
   (B)   In the trunk or other closed compartment or other container, out of
public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
(1999 Code, § 111.10) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 HOURS OF WHOLESALE SALE AND DELIVERY.
   It is an offense for any person to sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic
beverage store any amount of spirits, wines or other kind or alcoholic beverage
on Saturday of any week, on Sunday of any week, on New Year’s Day, on Memorial
Day, on the Fourth of July, on Labor Day, on Thanksgiving Day, on Christmas Day
or while the polls are open on the day of any general, primary, primary run-off
or special election, whether national, state, county or city.
(1999 Code, § 111.11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 INTOXICATED PERSONS NOT TO BE PERMITTED IN RESTAURANTS AND THE LIKE.
   It is an offense for any person, whether as owner, manager, operator or
employee of any café, restaurant, club or any place of recreation within the
city, to permit any person to be or to become drunk or intoxicated or to be
under the influence of intoxicating drink at such place.
(1999 Code, § 111.12) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 REGULATING THE SALE OF LOW-POINT BEER AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FOR IN-
SITE CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, or otherwise
distribute, for consumption on the premises any low-point beer and/or alcoholic
beverages. Violations of this section shall be punishable by fine or
imprisonment, or both, as allowed by applicable law. Each act of violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Subject to applicable state law, a person may offer for sale low-point
beer and/or alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises if and only if:
      (1)   The person operates a business in the same premises whereby 80% of
the gross revenue from that business is derived from the sale of food for meals
eaten on the premises; and
      (2)   The person has been duly licensed or permitted to sell both food
for consumption on the premises, as well as low-point beer and/or alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises according to all local, county and
state laws and regulations.
   (C)   The term “low-point beer” shall have the same definition as is defined
in 37A O.S. § 1-103v1. The terms “alcoholic beverage”, “person”, “premises” and
“meals” shall have the same definitions as they are defined in 37A O.S. § 1-
103v1.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-4-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES
§ 111.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES. All beverages containing more than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume, and not more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
   RETAIL DEALER. All persons, firms, corporations, associations or
concessionaires who sell, distribute or dispense any nonintoxicating beverages
within the city, without regard as to any place where such beverage may be
consumed or used.
(1999 Code, § 111.25)
§ 111.26 HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any retail dealer to sell or offer
for sale any nonintoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., excepting Saturday nights when such
beverages may not be sold between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on the
following Monday.
(1999 Code, § 111.26) (Ord. 70, passed 8-5-1985) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 PROHIBITED SALES AND CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any retail dealer knowingly to sell, give away, trade,
exchange, supply or furnish nonintoxicating beverages to any person under age
21, or in any manner to do any act prohibited by the statutes of the state, or
to fail to do any act which is affirmatively required by the statutes of the
state respecting nonintoxicating beverages.
(1999 Code, § 111.27) (Ord. 63, passed 10-3-1983) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this chapter the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by §
111.02 without paying said occupation tax imposed therefor in advance of such
operation is guilty of an offense against the city and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined the sum of not more than $500, excluding costs. Each day of such
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 111.99) (Ord. 69, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 72, passed 1-6-1986)
CHAPTER 112: HAZARDOUS BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Oil and gas wells
   
112.02   Self-service stations
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 OIL AND GAS WELLS.
   (A)   Purpose. In the exercise of the police power of the city, this section
is enacted for the protection of persons and property against danger from fire
and explosion, and to protect the health of persons residing in the corporate
limits of the city from noisome, dangerous and noxious odors and vapors
incident to the drilling of oil and gas wells and the hazards arising from the
construction, erection, location and maintenance of well derricks, slush pits,
pipes or storage tanks and other similar structures and equipment incident or
appurtenant to the drilling, operation and maintenance of oil and gas wells.
   (B)   Not to be drilled within city and the like. No oil or gas well shall
be drilled, nor shall any oil or gas derrick, wellhead, slush pit, storage tank
or pipe or pipes connecting therewith, or similar structures appurtenant to any
oil or gas well, be erected, constructed or located within the corporate limits
of the city.
(1999 Code, § 113.01) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 SELF-SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LIQUID. Any flammable and combustible liquid used as motor fuel or
otherwise.
      SELF-SERVICE STATION. The portion of property where liquids are stored
and subsequently dispensed from fixed approved dispensing equipment by persons
other than a service station attendant, and may include facilities available
for sale of other retail products.
   (B)   Employment of attendant. A self-service station shall have at least
one attendant on duty while the self-service station is open to the public. The
attendant shall be mentally and physically capable of performing the functions
and assuming the responsibilities prescribed to him or her in this section.
   (C)   Duties of attendant. Any attendant at a self-service station shall
supervise, observe and control the dispensing of liquids while such liquids are
actually being dispensed. He or she shall prevent the dispensing of liquids
into a portable container unless the container is of metal or is approved by
the office of the State Fire Marshal, has a tight closure with screwed or
spring cover, and is fitted or so designed that the contents can be poured
without spilling. The attendant shall control sources of ignition and
immediately handle accidental spills and fire extinguishers if needed.
   (D)   Dispensing area; clear view. The dispensing area shall at all times be
in clear view of the attendant and the placing or allowing of any obstacle to
come between the dispensing area and the attendant control area shall be
prohibited. The attendant shall at all times have voice communication with any
person in the dispensing area.
   (E)   Spillage; area design. Provision shall be made in the area where
liquids are dispensed to prevent spilled liquid from flowing into the interior
of self-service station buildings. Such provision may be made by grading
driveways, raising door sills or other equally effective means.
   (F)   Posting; operating instructions and warning signs. Operating
instructions and warning signs shall be conspicuously posted in the dispensing
area. Warning signs shall read:
IT IS UNLAWFUL AND DANGEROUS TO DISPENSE GASOLINE INTO UNAPPROVED CONTAINERS.
NO SMOKING. TURN OFF ENGINE.
   (G)   Emergency controls. In a self-service station, emergency controls
shall be installed at a location acceptable to the department having
jurisdiction, and shall not be more than 100 feet from the dispensers. The
emergency controls shall be clearly identified and easily accessible control
switches or circuit breakers remote from the dispensing services, including any
remote pumping system, that will shut off power to all dispensing devices in
the event of an emergency.
   (H)   Hose nozzle valves. Hose nozzle valves used at a self-service station
shall be an approved automatic-closing type without a latch-open device.
   (I)   Waste liquids; storage. Crankcase drainings and flammable or
combustible liquids shall not be dumped into sewers, streams or adjoining
property, but shall be stored in tanks or drums outside any building until
removed from the premises.
   (J)   Supplemental. The provisions of this section are intended to be
supplemental to any provisions of ordinances of the city relating to the public
health and safety and are intended to impose more stringent standards on the
construction and operation of self-service stations.
(1999 Code, § 113.02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the chapter the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, company or corporation violating any of the
terms and provisions of §
112.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day during which any oil or gas well is drilled, or any derrick,
wellhead, slush pit, storage tank or pipe or pipes connecting therewith, are
operated or maintained in contravention of any provision of §
112.01 shall constitute a separate offense, and each oil or gas well drilled,
operated or maintained in violation of any provision of §
112.01, together with its incidental or appurtenant structures, shall likewise
be deemed a separate offense for each day.
      (2)   No fine or penalty prescribed by division (A) above shall be
exclusive of the rights of any person, firm, corporation or company residing in
or owning property within the corporate limits of this city to enforce any
provision of §
112.01 against any person, firm, corporation or company violating the
provisions thereof, by any legal means, including remedy of injunction.
(1999 Code, § 113.99)
CHAPTER 113: MEDICAL MARIJUANA
Section
   
113.01   Certificate of compliance
   
113.02   License
   
113.03   Exemption
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The City Clerk shall issue a certificate of compliance to an applicant for a
medical marijuana business license from the state, upon submission of an
application for certificate of compliance and evidence of compliance,
qualifying the proposed medical marijuana business at the proposed location.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-7-2020)
§ 113.02 LICENSE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the city medical marijuana business license,
which shall include the following categories:
      (1)   Medical marijuana commercial grower;
      (2)   Medical marijuana processor;
      (3)   Medical marijuana dispensary;
      (4)   Medical marijuana transporter; and
      (5)   Medical marijuana testing laboratory.
   (B)   A city medical marijuana business license may be issued to an
applicant upon presentation by the applicant of a medical marijuana business
license issued by the state and payment of the city medical marijuana business
license fee of $750.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-7-2020)
§ 113.03 EXEMPTION.
   Use or possession of medical marijuana or paraphernalia in compliance with
state law is exempt from the prohibition against use or possession of marijuana
and paraphernalia as provided in §
131.08.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-7-2020)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Possession of up to four and one half ounces of marijuana by persons who can
state a medical condition, but not in possession of a state-issued medical
marijuana license, shall constitute a misdemeanor offense with a fine not to
exceed $400.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-7-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND POLICY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Adoption of state law
General Offenses
   
130.15   Attempt to commit offense
   
130.16   Aiding and abetting
Cross-reference:
Nuisances enumerated, see §
96.003
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   Adoption of Oklahoma Criminal Laws. For the purpose of the safety of
the citizens, the City Council hereby adopts 21 O.S. §§ 1 et seq., Oklahoma
Criminal Laws.
   (B)   Authority of Police Department. The City Council hereby gives
authority to the Police Department, Police Chief and patrol officers to enforce
this code, conduct search and seizures, make arrests and issues citations for
violations.
   (C)   Authority of Municipal Judge. The city also directs the Municipal
Judge to enforce the code, as the law allows for a municipality.
   (D)   Authority of City Attorney. The city also directs the Municipal
Attorney to prosecute violators of the code.
(21 O.S. § 42) (1999 Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 91, passed 5-4-1992)
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 130.15 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished not exceeding one-half the longest term of
imprisonment and not exceeding one-half the largest fine prescribed for the
attempted offense itself.
(1999 Code, § 130.15)
§ 130.16 AIDING AND ABETTING.
   When no punishment for counseling, aiding or abetting in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels, aids or abets another in the commission of such is guilty of an
offense and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(1999 Code, § 130.16)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND POLICY
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Harmful deception
   
131.02   False or bogus checks
   
131.03   Curfew for minors
   
131.04   Loitering
   
131.05   Indecency
   
131.06   Peeping
   
131.07   Alcohol-related offenses
   
131.08   Drug-related offenses
Social Host
   
131.25   Definitions
   
131.26   Consumption of alcohol by minor in public place, place open to public
or place not open to public
   
131.27   Hosting, permitting or allowing a party, gathering or event where
minors consuming alcoholic beverages prohibited
Smoke Free
   
131.40   Definitions
   
131.41   Prohibited conduct
   
131.42   Required signs
   
131.43   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Nuisances enumerated, see §
96.003
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another (whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise) when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(1999 Code, § 131.02) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain
or attempt to obtain from any person any money, property or valuable thing of
the value of $500 or less by means of any false or bogus check or by an other
written or printed or engraved instrument or spurious coin. The term FALSE OR
BOGUS CHECK shall include checks or orders given for money or property which
are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as
against the maker or drawer thereof. The making, drawing, issuing or delivering
of a check, draft or order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be
prima facie evidence of intent to defraud with the knowledge of insufficient
funds in, or credit with, such bank or other depository, provided that such
maker or drawer shall not have paid the drawee the amount due thereon, together
with the protest fees, within five days from the date the same is presented for
payment and provided, further, that said check or order is presented for
payment within 30 days after same is delivered and accepted.
(1999 Code, § 131.03) (Ord. passed 6-6-2017) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar and additional provisions, 21 O.S. §§ 1541.1 et seq.
§ 131.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 21 years who is in loco parentis to
a minor.
      GUARDIAN. Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      PARENT. The natural parent of a minor.
      PUBLIC ACTIVITY. Any organized educational, athletic, recreational or
entertainment activity or event or event conducted or sponsored by the city,
school, district or other recognized public or community organization.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
café, theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center and any other PUBLIC
PLACE devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall
also include the front or immediate area of the above.
   (B)   Minors. It is unlawful for any minor to remain, wander, stroll or play
in any public place on foot or to cruise about in any vehicle without a set
destination in, about or upon any public place in the city between the hours of
11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Monday through Sunday, unless:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
      (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business directed
or permitted by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor;
      (3)   The minor is attending or participating in a public activity,
including returning directly home by the most direct and efficient route
therefrom immediately upon termination or cessation thereof; or
      (4)   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation.
   (C)   Persons in charge of public places. It is unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly
permit or suffer the presence of minors between the hours of curfew designated
in division (B) above without prior notification given to the City Clerk during
regular business hours.
   (D)   Parents, guardians, custodians and the like. It is unlawful for any
parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having custody or control of
any minor to suffer or permit or by inefficient control to allow such person to
be on any public place within the city between the hours of curfew designated
in division (B) above. The provisions of this section do not apply if:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (E)   Special events. The Council may permit by resolution or motion
procedure for advance notice or registration with the city of special events or
functions sponsored by churches, schools, clubs or organizations which require
minors to be out at a later time.
   (F)   Taking into custody. The Council may also prescribe the procedures for
taking into custody minors found in violation of this section.
(1999 Code, § 131.06) (Ord. 96, passed 10-4-1993; Ord. 110, passed 8-5-1996)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(1999 Code, § 131.07) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 INDECENCY.
   (A)   Nudity, improper dress, indecent exposure. It is unlawful for any
person to appear in any public place in the city in a state of nudity or in any
offensive, indecent or lewd dress or to make an indecent public exposure of his
or her person.
   (B)   Unseemly conduct; acts detrimental to good morals. It is unlawful for
any person to conduct himself or herself in a lewd or indecent manner or in a
manner offensive to the good morals of the city, or to perform any act which is
detrimental to the good morals of the city, in any public or private place
within the city.
(1999 Code, § 131.09) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 PEEPING.
   It is unlawful for any person to hide or linger in the vicinity of any
private dwelling house, apartment or building with the intent to watch, gaze or
look at occupants therein in a clandestine manner or, while so hiding or
loitering, to watch, gaze or look at occupants therein in a clandestine manner.
(21 O.S. § 1171) (1999 Code, § 131.10) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 ALCOHOL-RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   Manufacture, sale and the like of intoxicating liquors. It is unlawful
for any person to manufacture, barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind except as permitted by
law.
   (B)   Possession of intoxicating liquors and the like. It is unlawful for
any person to have in his or her possession or under his or her control any
intoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind, except as
permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey from place to place
within the city any such intoxicating liquor or beverage except as permitted by
law.
   (C)   Lingering where intoxicating liquor is sold and the like, contrary to
law. It is unlawful for any person to loiter in any place where intoxicating
liquor or beverage of any kind is bartered, sold, given away or otherwise
furnished contrary to law.
   (D)   Maintaining a place where intoxicating liquor is sold contrary to law.
It is unlawful for any person or any agent or employee thereof to keep,
maintain, or aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place where intoxicating
liquor is manufactured, sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished in
violation of law or the ordinances of the city.
   (E)   Drunkenness and drinking in a public place. It is unlawful for any
person drunk or in a state of intoxication to appear or be upon or in any
street, alley, place of business or other public place or for any person to
drink any intoxicating liquor or beverage which may induce intoxication, upon
or in any street, alley or other public place within the city.
(1999 Code, § 131.11) (Ord. 48, passed 9-2-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages and offenses, see
Chapter 111
§ 131.08 DRUG-RELATED OFFENSES.
   It is unlawful for any person under the influence of narcotics to appear or
be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or other public place; or
for any person to use opium or other narcotic upon or in any street, alley,
place of business or other public place within the city; or for any person to
use opium or other narcotic in any place within the city except as legally
prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the state; or for any person
to loiter about a place where opium or other narcotic is sold or furnished
illegally; or for any person to sell or furnish illegally to another person
opium or any other narcotic.
(1999 Code, § 131.12) Penalty, see §
131.99
Cross-reference:
   Exemption for medical marijuana business, see §
113.03
SOCIAL HOST
§ 131.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and which contains
0.5% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either
alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances. This term
includes intoxicating beverages and low point beer as defined herein.
   GATHERING. A party, gathering or event, where a group of three or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Includes beverages containing more than 3.2% alcohol
by weight.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   MINOR. Any person under 21 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent or
stepparent of another person.
   PREMISES. Any residence or other private property, place or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 131.26 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL BY MINOR IN PUBLIC PLACE, PLACE OPEN TO PUBLIC
OR PLACE NOT OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful for any minor to:
   (A)   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public any
alcoholic beverage; or
   (B)   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 7-7-2016) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.27 HOSTING, PERMITTING OR ALLOWING A PARTY, GATHERING OR EVENT WHERE
MINORS CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting driver’s licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonable should have know that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in division (A)(1) above.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of alcoholic
beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her parent or
legal guardian.
   (C)   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use of
alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as a non-family gathering.
   (D)   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public then
said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a non-
religious gathering.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the state to
dispense alcoholic beverages.
   (F)   This section shall not apply where prohibited or preempted by state of
federal law.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 7-7-2016) Penalty, see §
131.99
SMOKE FREE
§ 131.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDOOR AREA. Any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the public,
at all times, regardless of whether work is being performed. INDOOR AREA
includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms,
employee cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees,
as well as all space between a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or
totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or
closed windows, stairways or the like.
   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY. All buildings, indoor areas and outdoor areas,
including, but not limited to, recreational areas and other property, or
portions thereof, owned or operated by the city, including, but not limited to,
vehicles and equipment owned by the municipality.
   OUTDOOR AREA. Any area that is not an indoor area, and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
   SMOKING. The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or
other lighted smoking device.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption. TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 131.41 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   Smoking tobacco products is prohibited in all places in which smoking
tobacco products is prohibited by state law.
   (B)   Smoking tobacco products is prohibited on all municipal property,
indoor and outdoor, including parks and recreational areas.
   (C)   Nothing in this code prohibits any person or entity from prohibiting
the use of lighted tobacco products on his or her property, even if the use of
lighted tobacco products is not otherwise prohibited in that area.
   (D)   No person or entity shall knowingly permit the use of lighted tobacco
products in an area that is under the control of that person or entity and in
which the use of lighted tobacco products is prohibited by law.
   (E)   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash receptacles,
such as ash trays or ash cans, within an area under the control of that person
or entity and in which smoking is prohibited by law. However, the presence of
ash receptacles shall not be a defense to a charge of the use of lighted
tobacco products in violation of any provision of this code.
   (F)   No person shall dispose of lighted tobacco product waste within an
area in which smoking is prohibited.
   (G)   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten or otherwise retaliate
against another person or entity that seeks to attain compliance with this
code.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 7-7-2016) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.42 REQUIRED SIGNS.
   (A)   The person or entity that has legal or de facto control of an area in
which the use of lighted tobacco products is prohibited by this code shall post
a clear, conspicuous and unambiguous sign at each point of entry to the area,
and in at least one other conspicuous point within the area.
   (B)   For restrictions on the use of lighted tobacco products in indoor
areas, the sign or decal shall be at least four inches by two inches in size
and shall clearly state that smoking is prohibited or that a smoke free
environment is provided. For restrictions on the use of lighted tobacco
products in outdoor areas, signs shall be weather-resistant, at least 15 inches
by 15 inches in size, with lettering of at least one inch, and shall clearly
state that smoking is prohibited or that a smoke free environment is provided.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the parks director or his or her
designee shall be responsible for the posting of signs on municipal property,
both indoor and outdoor.
   (D)   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall
not be a defense to a charge of the use of lighted tobacco products in
violation of any other provision of this code.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 7-7-2016) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.43 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this subchapter shall be the responsibility of the City
Police Department. In addition, any peace officer or Code Enforcement Official
may enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
131.25 through
131.27 shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the city and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished for violation of a Class A offense, with
fine of up to $300, plus all court costs and penalties.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who knowingly violates §§
131.40 through
131.43 shall be punished by a citation of a fine not exceeding more than $100.
      (2)   The possession of a lighted tobacco product in violation of §§
131.40 through
131.43 is a nuisance.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 7-7-2016; Ord. 2016-1, passed 7-7-2016)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
Offenses Against Peace
   
132.01   Weapons offenses
   
132.02   Unlawful assembly
   
132.03   Disturbing the peace, insults and disorderly conduct
   
132.04   Disturbing religious worship
   
132.05   Disturbing public assembly
   
132.06   Noise
   
132.07   Signs of insulting, profane or abusive nature
   
132.08   Literature and language ridiculing religion
Offenses Against Persons
   
132.20   Assault and battery
OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
§ 132.01 WEAPONS OFFENSES.
   (A)   Carrying certain concealed weapons prohibited; confiscation. It is
unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his or her person any
pistol, revolver, bowie knife, dirk, dagger, metal knuckle, switchblade knife
or other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument, except when doing so in the
line of duty or as may be permitted by law.
   (B)   Discharging firearms, air rifles and BB guns. It is unlawful for any
person to discharge a firearm in the city except when doing so in the line of
duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of another person, or of
property, or when otherwise authorized by law or ordinance. It is unlawful to
discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the city.
(1999 Code, § 132.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Projectiles, see §
133.05
Statutory reference:
   Weapons regulated, see 21 O.S. § 1272
§ 132.02 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together, or, being
assembled together, to act in concert to do any unlawful act against the peace,
or to the terror of others, or to make any movement thereto or any preparation
therefor, or otherwise to assemble together unlawfully or riotously.
(1999 Code, § 132.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE, INSULTS AND DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of another or others by
violent, obstreperous or improper conduct or carriage, by loud or unusual
noise, or by unseemly, obscene, offensive or abusive language, or to insult
another or others by such conduct or language, or to conduct himself or herself
in a disorderly manner.
(1999 Code, § 132.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
§ 132.04 DISTURBING RELIGIOUS WORSHIP.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb any congregation or assembly or
persons meeting for religious worship by making noise; by rude, indecent or
improper behavior; by profane, improper or loud language; or in any other
manner, either within the place of worship or within hearing distance thereof.
(1999 Code, § 132.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 DISTURBING PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful public gathering or
assembly by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane,
improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the place of
assembly or within hearing distance thereof.
(1999 Code, § 132.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 NOISE.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part
of the city by operating, having operated, or permitting to be operated any
contrivance, whether electric or not, with or without a loud speaker, in such a
manner as to emit loud music, noise or words. However, this shall not prohibit
religious bodies from playing chimes, bells, carillons or other religious
music.
(1999 Code, § 132.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Loudspeakers and the like; permits, see §
110.21
   Nuisances enumerated; noise, see §
96.003
§ 132.07 SIGNS OF INSULTING, PROFANE OR ABUSIVE NATURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or
device which in its common acceptance is insulting, profane or abusive to the
citizens of the city, and which is calculated, or of which the natural
consequence is, to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(1999 Code, § 132.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.08 LITERATURE AND LANGUAGE RIDICULING RELIGION.
   It is unlawful for any person to circulate any literature or use any
language within the corporate limits of the city that casts profane ridicule on
any deity or religion, which in its common acceptance is calculated to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault.
(1999 Code, § 132.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
§ 132.20 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence
to do a corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another.
   (B)   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the city, and any person committing an assault or an assault and battery within
the city is guilty of an offense.
(1999 Code, § 132.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Projectiles, see §
133.05
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
133.01   Petit larceny
   
133.02   Receiving stolen property
   
133.03   Property damage and interference with property
   
133.04   Signs, advertisements and the like
   
133.05   Projectiles
   
133.06   Tampering with or damaging public utilities
   
133.07   Trespassing, unlawful entrance and the like
Cross-reference:
Injuring trees or shrubbery, see §
97.15
§ 133.01 PETIT LARCENY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PETIT LARCENY. The taking of personal property of value of not to exceed
$1,000 accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to deprive another
thereof, when the property is not taken from the person of another.
   (B)   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits petit larceny is
guilty of an offense.
(21 O.S. § 1704) (1999 Code, § 133.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Petit larceny defined, see 21 O.S. § 1704
   Penalty, see 21 O.S. § 1706
§ 133.02 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to buy, receive or bring into the city any
property which he or she knows has been stolen.
(1999 Code, § 133.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 PROPERTY DAMAGE AND INTERFERENCE WITH PROPERTY.
   (A)   Molesting automobiles and other vehicles. It is unlawful for any
person to crank, start, otherwise meddle with, molest, enter, occupy, loiter
in, take or drive away any automobile or other vehicle belonging to another
without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
   (B)   Destroying, injuring or molesting buildings and other property. It is
unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear or molest any
structure, building, outbuilding, fence or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use.
(1999 Code, § 133.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 SIGNS, ADVERTISEMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill, placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building,
fence, sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other
property of another without the consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof.
(1999 Code, § 133.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.05 PROJECTILES.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he or she is
likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light or other property of another (whether public or private), except
in case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person, or of
property.
(1999 Code, § 133.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly or
privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him or her to consume or use
the gas, water or electricity without its passing through the meter or in any
other way so as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person
to damage, molest, tamper with or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or other
part of any public utility, including telegraph and telephone systems.
(1999 Code, § 133.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.07 TRESPASSING, UNLAWFUL ENTRANCE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Unlawful intrusion upon land. Every person who intrudes or squats upon
any lot or piece of land within the city without license or authority from the
owner thereof, or who erects or occupies thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or
other structure without such license or authority, and every person who places,
erects or occupies, within the bounds of any street, alley or avenue of the
city, any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure whatever, is guilty of an
offense.
   (B)   Unlawful entrance. It is unlawful for any person to enter upon the
property of another or into an area or structure on such property (whether such
property, area or structure is public or private) when such entrance is plainly
forbidden by signs or otherwise or when the property, area or structure is
enclosed, except when such entrance is in the line of duty, or with the
expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge, or otherwise by
authority of law or ordinance.
(1999 Code, § 133.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks; obstruction, see §
97.17
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
134.01   Failure to assist officers
   
134.02   Resisting, intimidating and abusing officers
   
134.03   Abetting prisoners
   
134.04   Escape of prisoners
   
134.05   Impersonating an officer
   
134.06   False fire alarms
   
134.07   False statements and perjury
   
134.08   Removal of barricades or obstructions
§ 134.01 FAILURE TO ASSIST OFFICERS.
   (A)   An officer of the city making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the city or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon a person or persons
to assist him or her in making such arrest, executing such process or
suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so.
(1999 Code, § 134.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 RESISTING, INTIMIDATING AND ABUSING OFFICERS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to resist, oppose or
obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police officer, the Municipal Judge or
other officer or employee of the city in the discharge of his or her official
duties; or, by threats or otherwise, to intimidate or attempt to intimidate any
such officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
to assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, or use abusive or
indecent language toward or about any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(1999 Code, § 134.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 ABETTING PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner:
   (A)   To set at liberty, rescue or attempt to set a liberty or rescue any
prisoner or prisoners, from any officer or employee of the city having legal
custody of the same from confinement by the city;
   (B)   To assist such prisoner in any manner to escape from such prison or
custody;
   (C)   To give such prisoner any weapon or object which might be used as a
weapon or instrument to assist him or her in escape; or
   (D)   To give such prisoner any alcoholic beverage or narcotics.
(1999 Code, § 134.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.04 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person held in confinement by the city, or other
public places of the city in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in
legal custody by authority of the city, to escape or attempt to escape from
such custody.
(1999 Code, § 134.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.05 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of the
city, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers
of an officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to do so.
(1999 Code, § 134.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory penalty, see 21 O.S. § 1533
§ 134.06 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false fire alarm, or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or any officer or
employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, or
knowingly to cause the Fire Department or its officers or employees to make a
useless run.
(1999 Code, § 134.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.07 FALSE STATEMENTS AND PERJURY.
   It is unlawful for any person or any agent or employee thereof knowingly to
make any material misrepresentation to any officer, employee or agency of the
city government in any official application to, or official dealing or
negotiation with, such officer or agency or to commit perjury before any
tribunal or officer of the city.
(1999 Code, § 134.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.08 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES OR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(1999 Code, § 134.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
      
152.   AIRPORT ZONING
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of Building Code; amendments
   
150.02   Adoption of Property Maintenance Code
Dilapidated Buildings
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Applicability of provisions
   
150.17   Removal procedure generally
   
150.18   Removal notice
   
150.19   Removal hearing
   
150.20   Boarding and securing of buildings
   
150.21   Removal generally
   
150.22   Removal costs; collection of costs; liens
   
150.23   Administration and appeals
   
150.24   Remedies reserved
   
150.25   Liability of city agents
New Installation, Construction, Renovation or Replacement
   
150.40   Permit required
   
150.41   Permit fees
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. A certain document, copies of which are on file
in the office of the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the
International Building Codes 2018 as published by the International Code
Council is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the city for control of
buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and all regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said International Building
Codes, are hereby referred to, adopted and made part hereof as if fully set out
in this section, with additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any.
   (B)   Additions, insertions and changes. This space is reserved for future
additions, insertions and changes.
   (C)   Other codes adopted. The following additional codes are adopted:
      (1)   2018 International Residential Code;
      (2)   2038 International Plumbing Code;
      (3)   2018 International Electrical Code;
      (4)   2018 International Mechanical Code.
(1999 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 149, passed 12-4-2006; Ord. 2019-9, passed 8-15-
2019)
§ 150.02 ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. The International Property Maintenance Code,
2018 edition is adopted as the Property Maintenance Code for the city for the
control of buildings and structure as herein provided. Each and all of the
regulations and provisions of the Property Maintenance Code, 2018 edition with
supplements are adopted by reference thereto and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any.
   (B)   Additions, insertions and changes.
      (1)   Title: These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance
Code of City of Hooker hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
      (2)   General: The Mayor or code enforcement officer of the City of
Hooker shall enforce all of the provisions of this code.
      (3)   Penalty: Any person who shall violate a provision of this code
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than seventy
($70.00). Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served
shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (4)   Membership of the Board: The Board of Appeals shall consist of five
members, being the same persons who occupy the City of Hooker Board of
Adjustment, and shall have the same terms of office as for the Board of
Adjustment, and shall have the same terms of office as for the Board of
Adjustment.
      (5)   Weeds: All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free
from weeds or plant growth in excess of 12 inches. All noxious weeds shall be
prohibited. WEEDS shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs; provided, however this term shall not
include cultivated flowers and gardens.
      (6)   Insect Screens: During the period from January 1 through December
31, every door, window and other outside opening utilized or required for
ventilation purposes serving any structure containing habitable rooms, food
preparation areas, food service areas, or any areas where products to be
included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured,
packaged or stored, shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of
not less than 16 mesh per inch and every swinging door shall have a self-
closing device in good working conditions.
      (7)   Heat Supply: Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory or guestroom
on terms, either express or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof
shall supply sufficient heat during the period from January 1 through December
31 to maintain the room temperatures of 65° during the hours between 6:30 a.m.
and 10:30 of each day and not less than 60°F (16°C) during other hours.
      (8)   Indoor occupiable work spaces: Shall be supplied with heat during
the period from January 1 to December 31 to maintain a temperature of not less
than 65°F (16°C) during the period of time the spaces are occupied.
   (C)   Penalty provisions. Penalty for violations is revised to read as
follows:
      “Every person firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as set forth in §
10.99. Each day a violation continues, after due notice has been served in
accordance with the terms and provisions hereof, shall be deemed a separate
offense.”
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 1-10-2011; Ord. 2019-9, passed 8-15-2019)
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING. A structure which through neglect or injury lacks
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such
an extent that said structure is a hazard to health, safety or welfare of the
general public.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
(1999 Code, § 150.15) (Ord 87, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 150.16 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any property zoned and
used for agricultural purposes.
(1999 Code, § 150.16) (Ord 87, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 150.17 REMOVAL PROCEDURE GENERALLY.
   The municipal governing body may cause dilapidated buildings within the
municipal limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 150.17) (Ord 87, passed 8-12-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances enumerated; dangerous buildings, see §
96.003
§ 150.18 REMOVAL NOTICE.
   At least ten days’ notice that the building is to be torn down or removed
shall be given to the owner of the property before the governing body holds a
hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be affected.
In addition, a copy of said notice shall be sent by certified mail with return
receipt requested to the property owner at the address shown by the current
year’s tax rolls in the office of the County Treasurer. Written notice shall
also be mailed to any mortgage holder as shown by the records in the office the
County Clerk to the last known address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing
of notice to any property owner or mortgage holder, the municipality shall
obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall
indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However,
if neither the property owner nor mortgage holder can be located, notice may be
given by posting a copy of the notice on the property. Such notice may be
published once not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action by the
municipality pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 150.18) (Ord 87, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 150.19 REMOVAL HEARING.
   A hearing shall be held by the governing body to determine if the property
is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of
the general public and the community, or if said property creates a fire hazard
which is dangerous to other property.
(1999 Code, § 150.19) (Ord 87, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 150.20 BOARDING AND SECURING OF BUILDINGS.
   After a building has been declared dilapidated as provided for in this
subchapter, and before commencement of the tearing down and removal of a
dilapidated building, the governing body may authorize that such building be
boarded and secured. For the purpose of this section, BOARDED AND SECURED means
the closing, boarding and locking of any or all exterior openings so as to
prevent entry into the structure.
(1999 Code, § 150.20) (Ord 87, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 150.21 REMOVAL GENERALLY.
   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or a hazard and the property would be benefitted by the removal of
such conditions, the governing body may cause the dilapidated building to be
torn down and removed. The governing body shall fix reasonable dates for the
commencement and completion of the work. The City Clerk shall immediately file
a notice of dilapidation and lien with the County Clerk describing the
property, the findings of the municipality at the hearing, and stating that the
municipality claims a lien on said property for the destruction and removal
costs and that such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date of filing of said notice. The agents of the
municipality are granted the right of entry on the property for the performance
of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the municipality if the
work is not performed by the property owner within the dates fixed by the
governing body.
(1999 Code, § 150.21) (Ord 87, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 150.22 REMOVAL COSTS; COLLECTION OF COSTS; LIENS.
   (A)   The governing body shall determine the actual cost of the dismantling
and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that may be
necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the buildings,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall forward a
statement of the actual cost attributable to the dismantling and removal of the
buildings and a demand for payment of such costs to the property owner. In
addition, a copy of any such statement shall be mailed to any mortgage holder
at the address provided for in §
150.18. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner
or mortgage holder, the municipality shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee. If the municipality dismantles or removes any
dilapidated buildings, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the
actual cost of the labor, maintenance and equipment required for the
dismantling and removal of the dilapidated buildings. If dismantling and
removal of the dilapidated buildings is done on a private contract basis, the
contract shall be awarded to the lowest or best bidder.
   (B)   (1)   When payment is made to the municipality for costs incurred, the
City Clerk shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the
actual cost of the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within
six months from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such
property, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of
the cost to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is
located. Said costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the County
Treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. Until finally paid, the costs
and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date of the notice of dilapidation and liens filed with the
County Clerk. In addition, the costs and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the
County Clerk. Said lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and
all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all
other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the
cost is fully paid. At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall
collect a fee of $5 for each parcel of property. Said fee shall be deposited to
the credit of the General Fund of the county. At any time prior to collection
as provided for in this division (B)(1), the municipality may pursue any civil
remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon, including an
action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose
its lien against the property.
      (2)   A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgement lien
created pursuant to this section.
      (3)   Upon receiving payment, the City Clerk shall forward to the County
Treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
(1999 Code, § 150.22) (Ord 87, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 150.23 ADMINISTRATION AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The municipality may designate, by ordinance, an administrative
officer or administrative body to carry out the duties of the governing body
specified in this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner shall have the right of appeal to the municipal
governing body from any order of the administrative body.
   (C)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the
City Clerk within ten days after the administrative order is rendered.
(1999 Code, § 150.23) (Ord 87, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 150.24 REMEDIES RESERVED.
   Nothing in the provisions of this subchapter shall prevent the municipality
from abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its
police power to protect the health, safety or welfare of the general public.
(1999 Code, § 150.24) (Ord 87, passed 8-12-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 96
§ 150.25 LIABILITY OF CITY AGENTS.
   The officers, employees or agents of the municipality shall not be liable
for any damages or loss of property due to the removal of dilapidated buildings
performed pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter or as otherwise
prescribed by law.
(1999 Code, § 150.25) (Ord 87, passed 8-12-1991)
NEW INSTALLATION, CONSTRUCTION, RENOVATION OR REPLACEMENT
§ 150.40 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to install any plumbing or electrical
components or mechanical units which are connected to plumbing or electrical
components without first procuring a permit from the City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Any person who installs mechanical items electrical devices and/or
components to either residential or commercial properties who does not first
purchase a permit will be subject to a fine by the city.
   (C)   All mechanical, plumbing, electrical and or any items the city codes
specify as such is subject to inspection by the City Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41 PERMIT FEES.
   The City of Hooker, Oklahoma shall charge fees for building permits,
occupational permits and mobile home inspections, in the amounts set by
resolution of the Hooker City Council.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010; Ord. 2024-6, passed 12-5-2024 )
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.40 and
150.41 shall be subject to the penalty provisions of 11 O.S. § 14-101 and 11
O.S. § 22-101.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
Section
   
151.01   Inspection authorized
   
151.02   Duty of occupants
   
151.03   Fees
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 INSPECTION AUTHORIZED.
   The Health and Inspection Officers are authorized and directed to make
inspections to determine the conditions of mobile home and travel trailer parks
located within the city in order to perform their duty of safeguarding the
health, safety and welfare of occupants of mobile home parks and of the general
public. The Health Officer shall have the power to inspect the outside premises
of private or public property for the purposes of inspecting and investigating
conditions relating to the enforcement of this title or regulations thereunder.
The Health and Inspection Officers shall have the power to inspect the register
containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants using the park.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.02 DUTY OF OCCUPANTS.
   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner thereof
or his or her agent or employees access to any part of such mobile home or
travel trailer park or his or her premises at reasonable times for the purpose
of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance
with this chapter, or with any lawful regulations adopted thereunder, or with
any lawful order issues pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 FEES.
   Fees will be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of the trailer or
mobile home for inspection and/or any following inspections for any compliance
requirements deemed necessary by the Code Officer of the city in accordance
with zoning and regulations concerning trailers or mobile homes. The occupant
or owner must apply for a building permit with an additional $150 fee at the
time of the permit application for an inspection and follow up inspection if
needed. A fee of $50 will be refunded if the second inspection is not deemed
necessary and the first inspection meets with compliance according to the codes
of the city.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Every person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction there of shall be
punished as set forth in §
10.99. Each day a violation continues after due notice has been served, in
accordance with the terms and provisions hereof, shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-6-2010)
CHAPTER 152: AIRPORT ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Airport hazards contrary to public interest
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Airport zones
   
152.04   Airport zone height limitations
   
152.05   Use restriction
   
152.06   Nonconforming uses
   
152.07   Permits and fees
   
152.08   Enforcement
   
152.09   Board of Adjustment
   
152.10   Appeals to Board of Adjustment
   
152.11   Judicial review of decisions of Board of Adjustment
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 AIRPORT HAZARDS CONTRARY TO PUBLIC INTEREST.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred by the
Airport Zoning Act, 3 O.S. §§ 101 et seq. (the “Act”). It is hereby found that
an airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of Hooker Municipal
Airport, and property or occupants of land in its vicinity, and also, if of the
obstruction type, in effect reduces the size of the area available for the
landing, taking off and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or
impair the utility of Hooker Municipal Airport and the public investment
therein.
   (B)   Accordingly, it is hereby declared:
      (1)   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and an injury to the community served by Hooker Municipal Airport;
      (2)   It is therefore necessary in the interest of the public health,
public safety and general welfare that the creation or establishment of airport
hazards be prevented; and
      (3)   The prevention of these airport hazards or obstructions should be
accomplished, to the extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police
power without compensation.
   (C)   It is further declared that both the prevention of the creation or
establishment of airport hazards and the elimination, removal, alteration,
mitigation or the marking and lighting of existing airport hazards are public
purposes for which political subdivisions may raise and expend public funds and
acquire land or property interests therein.
   (D)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Hooker Municipal
Airport Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. Hooker Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest point of an airport’s usable landing area
measured in feet from sea level. Hooker Municipal Airport has an elevation of
2,998 feet above mean sea level (MSL).
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at Hooker
Municipal Airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of
aircraft.
   AIRPORT HAZARD AREA. Any area of land or water upon which an airport hazard
might be established if not prevented as provided in this chapter.
   APPROACH SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
§
152.04. In plan, the perimeter of the APPROACH SURFACE coincides with the
perimeter of the approach zone.
   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES. These zones are set
forth in §
152.03.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A board consisting of five members appointed by the
City Council, as provided by the laws of the state.
   CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to 1 for a horizontal distance of
4,000 feet.
   HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the perimeter
of the horizontal zone.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth or
use of land that is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
   NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal
guidance, or area type navigation equipment for which a straight-in
nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned. (Note:
Runway 17-35 is currently a visual runway, but GPS approaches to both runways
are anticipated. Therefore, zoning is based on nonprecision instrument
approaches with visibility minimums greater than three-fourths of a statute
mile.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in §
152.04.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or government entity; includes a trustee, a receiver,
an assignee or a similar representative of any of them.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is set
forth in §
152.03. The elevation of any point on the PRIMARY SURFACE is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length. (Note: the existing Runway 17-35 at Hooker Municipal
Airport is 60 feet wide and 3,279 feet long. However, this airport zoning
chapter is based on the ultimate planned length of 4,000 feet.)
   STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
humans, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes,
smokestacks, earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at 90 degree angles to
the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended, at a slope of seven
feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
(Note: existing pavement strength for Runway 17-35 at Hooker is rated at 12,500
pounds single-wheel. Therefore, zoning is based on UTILITY RUNWAY criteria.)
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures. (Note: Runway 17-35 at Hooker is currently a visual
runway, but zoning sponsors are encouraged to zone for the anticipated
requirement if possible.)
   ZONING INSPECTOR. Any city employee as may be so designated by the City
Council.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 152.03 AIRPORT ZONES.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby
created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying
beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces and
conical surfaces as they apply to Hooker Municipal Airport.
   (B)   Such zones are shown on the Hooker Municipal Airport zoning map,
prepared by LBR Inc., Airport Consultants, and dated March 2002, which is
attached to this chapter and hereby expressly incorporated herein and made a
part hereof. An area located in more than one of the following zones is
considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation.
   (C)   The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows.
      (1)   Utility runway nonprecision instrument approach zone. The inner
edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface. It
begins at the end of the primary surface (200 feet from the runway threshold)
and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
2,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway. (Runways 17 and
35, planned.)
      (2)   Transitional zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath
the transitional surfaces.
      (3)   Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of 5,000 feet radii for all runways designated utility or visual and
10,000 feet for all others from the center of each end of the primary surface
of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to
those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional
zones.
      (4)   Conical zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 152.04 AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be
erected, altered or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any
zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height
limit herein established for such zone.
   (B)   Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of
the zones in question as follows.
      (1)   Utility runway nonprecision instrument approach zone. Slopes 20
feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline. (Runways 17and 35 planned.)
      (2)   Transitional zones. Slopes seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation which is 3,148 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the
foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the
approach surface, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface.
      (3)   Horizontal zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport
elevation or at a height of 3,148 feet above mean sea level.
      (4)   Conical zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning
at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
      (5)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 152.05 USE RESTRICTION.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create bird strike hazards or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with
the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed in this
chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change
or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of
the effective date of this chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance
of a nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in
the construction, alteration or intended use of any structure; the construction
or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of this chapter,
and is diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding division (A) above, the owner of
any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to permit the
installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as
shall be deemed necessary by the Zoning Inspector to indicate to the operators
of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport
obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated and
maintained at the expense of the city.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 152.07 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Future uses.
      (1)   Except as specifically provided in divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b)
and (A)(1)(c) below, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be
planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been
applied for and granted upon the prior payment of the appropriate permit fees
to be established from time to time. Each application for a permit shall
indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient
particularity to permit it to be determined whether the resulting use,
structure or tree would conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such
determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for
a use inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter shall be granted unless
a variance has been approved in accordance with division (D) below.
         (a)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain,
land contour or topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for such zones.
         (b)   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, no
permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would
extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach zones.
         (c)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height
above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain and
contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such transition zones.
      (2)   Nothing contained in the forgoing exceptions in divisions (A)(1)(a)
through (A)(1)(c) above shall be construed as permitting or intending to permit
any construction, or alteration of any structure, or growth of any tree in
excess of any of the height limits established by this chapter except as set
forth in §
152.04(B)(5).
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this chapter or any amendments thereto or than it is when
the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Zoning
Inspector determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned
or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall
be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable
height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   (D)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the Board of
Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. The application for variance
shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such
variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief
granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will not be an airport
hazard or create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and
will be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter. Additionally, the Board
of Adjustment may consider no application for variance to the requirements of
this chapter unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the Hooker
Municipal Airport Board for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the
variance. If the Hooker Municipal Airport Board does not respond to the
application within 15 days after receipt, the Board of Adjustment may act on
its own to grant or deny said application.
   (E)   Obstruction marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate and maintain, at
the owner’s expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed
proper by the Board of Adjustment, this condition may be modified to require
the owner to permit the city at its own expense to install, operate and
maintain the necessary markings and lights.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Inspector to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to the Zoning Inspector upon a form created for that purpose. Applications
required by this chapter to be submitted to the Zoning Inspector shall be
promptly considered and granted or denied. Application for action by the Board
of Adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the Zoning Inspector.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 152.09 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   A Board of Adjustment has been created to have and exercise the
following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Inspector
in the enforcement of this chapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass under this chapter;
      (3)   To authorize in specific cases such variances from the terms of
this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to
special conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will
result in unnecessary hardship and so that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed and substantial justice done; and
      (4)   Exceptions and/or variances may only be allowed by the Board of
Adjustment only after notice and hearing as provided in 11 O.S. § 44-108.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members appointed by the
City Council and each shall serve for a term of three years until a successor
is duly appointed and qualified. Of the members first appointed, one shall be
appointed for a term of one year, two for a term of two years and two for a
term of three years. All appointments thereafter shall be for a term of three
years. Members shall be removable by the appointing authority for cause, upon
written charges, after a public hearing.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and in
harmony with the provisions of this chapter, applicable city ordinances, the
State Open Meetings Act, being 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq. and the State Open
Records Act, being 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq. Meetings of the Board of Adjustment
shall be public and held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times
as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson or, in the absence of
the Chairperson, the Acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
the vote of each member upon each question; or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
Zoning Inspector and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which properly comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   The concurring vote of three members of the Board of Adjustment shall
be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of
the Zoning Inspector or decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon
which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any variation to
this chapter.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 152.10 APPEALS TO BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
Zoning Inspector made in the administration of the chapter, may appeal to the
Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be taken within 30 days from the date of
the decision as provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing
with the Zoning Inspector and the City Clerk, a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof, and by paying a filing fee of $200 at the office of the City
Clerk at the time the notice is filed. The Zoning Inspector shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Zoning Inspector certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of the facts
stated in the certificate a stay would in the opinion of the Zoning Inspector
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed except by order of the Board of Adjustment or notice to the Zoning
Inspector and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 152.11 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF DECISIONS OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, who is of the opinion that a decision of the Board of Adjustment
is illegal, may appeal to the District Court of the county, in the manner as
provided in 3 O.S. § 111.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by
a fine of not more than $100 and each day a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition, the political subdivisions adopting
the regulations contained in this chapter or the Joint Airport Zoning Board may
institute an action to prevent, restrain, correct or abate any violation of the
Act, or this chapter and its regulations or of any order or ruling made in
connection with their administration or enforcement, in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-8-2002)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Citation
   
153.002   Purpose and necessity
   
153.003   Nature of zoning plan
   
153.004   Regulation of use, height, area, yards and open spaces
   
153.005   Zones
   
153.006   Definitions
   
153.007   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.008   Vacation of public easements
   
153.009   Parking in Dwelling Districts R-1, R-2, and R-3
R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District
   
153.020   General description
   
153.021   Uses permitted
   
153.022   Uses permitted on review
   
153.023   Limitation of uses
   
153.024   Area regulations
   
153.025   Height regulations
   
153.026   Home regulations; codes for all construction
R-2 Two-Family District
   
153.040   General description
   
153.041   Uses permitted
   
153.042   Uses permitted on review
   
153.043   Limitation of uses
   
153.044   Area regulations
   
153.045   Height regulations
   
153.046   Home regulations
R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District
   
153.060   General description
   
153.061   Uses permitted
   
153.062   Uses permitted on review
   
153.063   Area regulations
   
153.064   Height regulations
   
153.065   Home regulations; codes for all construction
   
153.066   Mobile home park or court; codes for mobile home park or court
C-1 Commercial District
   
153.080   General description
   
153.081   Uses permitted
   
153.082   Intensity of use regulations
   
153.083   Lot coverage
   
153.084   Height regulations
   
153.085   Yard regulations
   
153.086   Parking regulations
   
153.087   Billboards
C-2 General Business District
   
153.100   General description
   
153.101   Uses permitted
   
153.102   Intensity of use regulations
   
153.103   Lot coverage
   
153.104   Height regulations
   
153.105   Yard regulations
   
153.106   Parking regulations
I-1 Industrial District
   
153.120   General description
   
153.121   Standards
   
153.122   Uses permitted
   
153.123   Intensity of use regulations
   
153.124   Lot coverage
   
153.125   Height regulations
   
153.126   Yard regulations
   
153.127   Parking regulations
I-2 Industrial District
   
153.140   General description
 
   
153.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Airport zoning, see
Chapter 152
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 CITATION.
   This chapter, in pursuance of the authority granted by the Legislature of
the state in 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 et seq., shall be a part of master plan for the
city and shall be known as the zoning chapter and may be cited as such.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE AND NECESSITY.
   The regulations contained herein are necessary to encourage the most
appropriate uses of land; to maintain and stabilize the value of property; to
regulate the location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade,
residence or other purposes; to reduce fire hazards and improve public safety
and safeguard the public health; to decrease traffic congestion and its
accompanying hazards; to prevent undue concentration of population; and to
create a comprehensive and stable pattern of land uses upon which to plan for
transportation, water supply, sewerage, schools, parks, public utilities and
other facilities. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter
they shall be necessary for the promotion of the public health, safety,
comfort, convenience and general welfare.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.003 NATURE OF ZONING PLAN.
   This chapter classifies and regulates the use of land, buildings and
structures within the city limits, as hereinafter set forth. The regulations
contained herein divide the city into zones and regulate therein the use of the
land and the use of buildings and the size of buildings as to height and number
of stories, the coverage of the land by buildings, the size of yards and open
spaces, the location of buildings and the density of population.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.004 REGULATION OF USE, HEIGHT, AREA, YARDS AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Conforming. Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, no land shall be
used and no building, structure or improvement shall be constructed, moved,
altered, enlarged or rebuilt which is designed, arranged or intended to be used
or maintained for any purpose or in any manner except in accordance with the
requirements established in the district in which such land, building,
structure or improvement is located, and in accordance with the provisions of
the regulations contained herein relating to any or all districts.
   (B)   Nonconforming. The lawful nonconforming use of a building, structure
or premises as such existed at the time of the adoption and recording of this
chapter affecting it, may be continued, although such use does not conform with
the provisions of this chapter until such use ceases for a period of six
consecutive months at which time said nonconforming use will terminate.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.005 ZONES.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into zones as shown on the zoning map, (map
dated August 16, 2001), filed with the City Clerk. The map, a written
description and all explanatory material thereon is hereby made a part of this
chapter by reference as if set out in length herein.
   (B)   Zones shall be designated as follows.
      (1)   Residential R-1 One-Family District.
         (a)   Blackmer Addition. All lots of Blocks 1, 2 and 3;
         (b)   Golf Addition. All lots of all blocks;
         (c)   Mayer Addition. All lots of all blocks;
         (d)   Park Addition. All lots of all blocks;
         (e)   Hofferber Park Addition. All lots of blocks;
         (f)   Murphy-Morris Addition. All lots of Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28; and
         (g)   Original Town. All lots of Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 18 and 40; Lots 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 , 22, 23 and 24
of Block 17.
      (2)   R-2 Two-Family District.
         (a)   Baker Brothers North Side Addition. All lots of all blocks;
         (b)   Murphy Morris Addition. All lots of Blocks 7, 8, 21 and 22; and
         (c)   Original Town. All lots of Blocks 20, 21, 22, 27, 28, 35, 36 and
37; Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 of Block 23; Lots 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 of Block 26; Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of Block 34.
      (3)   R-3 Multiple-Family District.
         (a)   First Addition. All lots of Blocks 66, 67, 68, 69, 78, 79, 80,
81, 82 and 91; and
         (b)   Original Town. Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of
Block 70.
      (4)   Commercial C-1 General Commercial District.
         (a)   Irvin Addition. All lots of all blocks;
         (b)   Original Town.
            1.   All lots of Blocks 19, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37, 43, 44,
45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 62, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76,
77 and 97;
            2.   Lots 9, 10, 11 and 12 of Block 23;
            3.   Lots 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 of Block 24;
            4.   Lots 1 , 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of Block 26;
            5.   Lots 9, 10, 11 and 12 of Block 34; and
            6.   Lots 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 of Block 70.
         (c)   First Addition.
            1.   All lots of Blocks 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 58, 59, 60, 61, 95, 96,
98, 99 and 113; and
            2.   Lots 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 of Block 70.
      (5)   Commercial C-2 General Commercial District. Original Town:
         (a)   All lots of Blocks 14, 15, 16 and 25;
         (b)   Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of Block 17;
         (c)   Lots 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 of Block
23; and
         (d)   Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and
17 of Block 24.
      (6)   I-1 Light Industrial District. The I-1 Industrial Zone includes all
land south of Panhandle Street and west of Mayer Street and Les White
Industrial Boulevard inside the city limits.
      (7)   I-2 Heavy Industrial District. I-2 Heavy Industrial District.
      (8)   Other.
         (a)   F-1 Flood Plain District; and
         (b)   A-1 Agricultural District.
   (C)   Specific district regulations are set forth in §§
153.020 through
153.026,
153.040 through
153.046,
153.060 through
153.066,
153.080 through
153.087,
153.100 through
153.106,
153.120 through
153.127 and
153.140.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future tenses; words in the
singular number include the plural and words in the plural number include the
singular, except where the natural construction of the writing indicates
otherwise. The word “shall” is mandatory and not directory.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building customarily incidental and subordinate to the
main building and located on the same lot with the main building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental, appropriate and subordinate to
the principal use of land or buildings located upon the same premises.
   ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE. Any cloth, card, paper, metal, painted,
glass, wooden, plastic, plaster, stone sign or other sign, device or structure
of any character whatsoever, including statuary, placed for outdoor advertising
purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building
or structure. The term PLACED shall include erecting, constructing, posting,
painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving or otherwise
fastening, affixing or making visible in any manner whatsoever. The area of an
advertising structure other than a sign shall be determined as the area of the
largest cross-section of such structure. Neither directional, warning nor other
signs posted by public officials in the course of their public duties nor
merchandise or materials being offered for sale shall be construed as
ADVERTISING SIGNS for the purpose of this definition.
   ALLEY. A public passage or way affording a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   APARTMENT HOUSE or MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A single detached dwelling
designed for and occupied by three or more families living independently of
each other as separate housekeeping units, including apartment houses,
apartment hotels and flats, but not including auto or trailer courts or camps,
hotels or resort type hotels.
   BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement a BASEMENT shall be counted as a story when more than one-half of
its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling other than a hotel where for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three or more but not exceeding 12 persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of
persons, animals or chattel. When separated by dividing waits without openings,
each portion of such structure so separated, shall be deemed a separate
structure.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average line of the highest
and lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the
highest point of coping of a flat roof, or the deckline of a mansard roof, or
to the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated. In any residential district any dwelling shall be
deemed to be a MAIN BUILDING on the lot on which it is situated.
   BUILDING SITE. A single parcel of land under one ownership, occupied or
intended to be occupied by a building or structure.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Any place, home or institution which receives three or
more children under the age of 16 years, and not of common parentage, for care
apart from their natural parents, legal guardians or custodians, when received
for regular periods of time for compensation; provided, however, this
definition shall not include public and private schools organized, operated or
approved under the laws of this state, custody of children fixed by a court of
competent jurisdiction, children related by blood or marriage within the third
degree to the custodial person, or to churches or other religious or public
institutions caring for children within the institutional building while their
parents or legal guardians are attending services or meeting or classes engaged
in church activities.
   COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by the building. The
building area shall include all overhanging roofs.
   DISTRICT. Any section or sections of the city for which regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises or the height and area of buildings
are uniform.
   DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed or used as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including house trailers.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A dwelling designed for occupancy by three or more
families living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or trailer
courts or camps, hotels or resort type hotels.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling designed to be occupied by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for occupancy by two families
living independently of each other.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood or marriage, including adopted
children, or a group of not to exceed five persons (excluding servants) not all
related by blood or marriage, occupying premises and living as a single
nonprofit housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
or lodging house, hotel, club or similar dwelling for group use. A FAMILY shall
be deemed to include domestic servants employed by said family.
   GARAGE APARTMENT. A dwelling unit for one family erected above a private
garage.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or a part of a main building used for
storage purposes only for not more than three automobiles, or for a number of
automobiles which does not exceed one and one-half times the number of families
occupying the dwelling unit to which such garage is accessory, whichever number
is the greater. Such space shall not be used for storage of more than one
commercial vehicle which does not exceed one and one-half tons rated capacity,
per family living on the premises and not to exceed two spaces shall be rented
to persons not residing on the premises for storage of noncommercial passenger
vehicles only.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage other than a private garage, available to the
public, used for the care, servicing, repair or equipping of automobiles or
where such vehicles are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale.
   GASOLINE SERVICE OR FILLING STATION. Any area of land, including structures
thereon, that is used for the sale of gasoline or oil fuels, including butane
or propane fuels, or other automobile accessories, and which may or may not
include facilities for lubricating, washing, cleaning or otherwise servicing
automobiles.
   HELP-YOURSELF LAUNDRY. A laundry providing home type washing, drying and
ironing machines for hire to be used by the customers on the premises.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation conducted in a dwelling unit provided that:
      (a)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in such occupation;
      (b)   The use of the dwelling unit for the HOME OCCUPATION shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall
be used in the conduct of the HOME OCCUPATION;
      (c)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, other visible evidence of the conduct of such HOME OCCUPATION
other than one sign, not exceeding one square-foot in area, non-illuminated and
mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
      (d)   No HOME OCCUPATION shall be conducted in any accessory building;
      (e)   There shall be no sales directly out of the home in connection with
such HOME OCCUPATION;
      (f)   No traffic shall be generated by such HOME OCCUPATION in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard; and
      (g)   No equipment or process shall be used in such HOME OCCUPATION which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interferences
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no equipment
or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference in any
radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations in line
voltage off the premises.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six
or more sleeping rooms occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of
persons who are lodged with or without meals for compensation, but not
including trailer court or camp, sanatorium, hospital, asylum, orphanage or
building where persons are housed under restraint.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which are kept three or more dogs, more than
six months of age.
   LOT. Any plot or land occupied or intended to be occupied by one main
building, and accessory buildings and uses, including such open spaces as are
required by this chapter and other laws or ordinances, and having its principal
frontage on a street.
   LOT, AREA. The total area measured on a horizontal plane, included within
lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot which has at least two adjacent sides abutting for their
full lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection
of such two sides is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, FRONTAGE. That dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A manufactured home on a permanent foundation which has
minimum dimensions of 24 body feet in width, a pitched roof, siding and roofing
materials which are customarily used on site-built homes, and which complies
with the architectural or aesthetic standards of other homes in the area or
those architectural or aesthetic standards as may be varied by the Board of
Adjustments Appeals. A residential design MANUFACTURED HOME shall be considered
a one-family dwelling.
   MEDICAL FACILITIES.
      (1)   CONVALESCENT, REST OR NURSING HOME. A health facility where persons
are housed and furnished with means and continuing nursing care.
      (2)   DENTAL CLINIC or MEDICAL CLINIC. A facility for the examination and
treatment of ill and afflicted human out-patients, provided that patients are
not kept over night except under emergency conditions.
      (3)   DENTAL OFFICE or DOCTORS OFFICE. Same as DENTAL OR MEDICAL CLINIC.
      (4)   HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services primarily for
human in-patient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, out-patient departments, training
facilities, central services facilities and staff offices which are an integral
part of the facilities.
      (5)   PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER. A facility primarily utilized by a health
unit for providing public health services including related facilities such as
laboratories, clinics and administrative offices operated in connection
therewith.
      (6)   SANATORIUM. An institution providing health facilities for in-
patient medical treatment or treatment and recuperation making use of natural
therapeutic agents.
   MOBILE HOMES - MODULAR HOMES. Any vehicle or structure constructed in such a
manner as to permit occupancy thereof as a single- or multiple-family dwelling,
or for sleeping quarters or the conduct of any business, trade or occupation or
use as a selling or advertising device, or use for storage, and so designed
that it is or may be mounted on wheels and transported or conveyed on highways,
and which may be temporarily or permanently affixed to real property.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A structure or land lawfully occupied by a use that does
not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. A parking space not on or extending over any
public easement or right-of-way.
   PARKING SPACE. A permanently surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed,
sufficient in size to store one automobile together with a permanently surfaced
driveway connecting the parking space with a street or alley.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more, but not exceeding 20 persons. A building that has accommodations
for more than 20 persons shall be defined as a hotel under the terms of this
chapter.
   SELF-SERVICE LAUNDRY or DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT. Any attended or
unattended place, building or portion thereof, available to the general public
for the purpose of washing, drying, extracting moisture from or dry cleaning
wearing apparel, cloth fabrics and textiles of any kind by means of a
mechanical appliance which is operated by the customer.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. A stable with a capacity for not more than two horses or
mules.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. A stable, other than a private stable, with a capacity for
more than two horses or mules.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a basement included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area is
finished off for use. A HALF STORY containing independent apartment or living
quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   STREET. Any public or private thoroughfare that affords the principal means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET, INTERSECTING. Any street that joins another street at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or which is attached to something having a location on
the ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   TOURIST COURT OR MOTEL. An area containing one or more buildings designed or
intended to be used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient
families and intended primarily for automobile transients.
   TOURIST HOME. A dwelling occupied as a permanent residence by an owner or
renter in which sleeping accommodations in not more than four rooms are
provided or offered for transient guests for compensation.
   TRAILER COURT OR MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under private ownership
which has been designed or improved or is intended to be rented for occupancy
by one or more trailer houses or mobile homes.
   TRAILER OR MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a trailer court
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home.
   TRASH. Extends to the widest sense of that term, and includes, but without
limitation, upon any other meaning, refuse litter, ashes, leaves, debris,
paper, combustible materials, offal, rubbish, used lumber, concrete, bricks,
pipe and abandoned vehicles and vehicle parts, waste and useless or unused or
uncared for matter of all kinds, whether solid or liquid in form.
   TRAVEL TRAILERS. All vehicles and portable structures built on a chassis up
to and including 32 feet in length designed as a temporary or permanent
dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation use (not included in the
definition of independent mobile homes). For purposes of regulation under this
chapter, a DEPENDENT TRAILER shall be considered to be the same as a travel
trailer, unless otherwise indicated.
   YARD. An open space at a grade between a building and the adjoining lot
lines, unoccupied and unobstructed (by any portion of a structure) from the
ground upward, except where otherwise specifically provided in this chapter
than an accessory building or structure may be located in a portion of a yard
required for a main building. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of
determining the width of the side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth
of a rear yard, the shortest horizontal distance between the lot line and the
main building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard located in front of the front elevation of the building
and extending across a lot between the side yard lines and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the side yard lines and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the front property line and the outside wall of the
main building. In unplatted areas or in any such instance where there is a
question as to the orientation of the front yard, the FRONT YARD shall be
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between the
lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line
and the rear of the outside wall of the main building. On both corner lots and
interior lots the REAR YARD shall in all cases be the opposite end of the lot
from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the outside wall of the side of
the main building.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.007 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or highway right-of-way lines,
such centerlines, street lines or highway right-of-way lines shall be construed
to be such boundaries.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
   (C)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, or the centerlines or
right-of-way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall be construed as
being parallel thereto and at such scaled distance therefrom as indicated on
the zoning map.
   (D)   Where the boundary of a district line follows a railroad line, such
boundary shall be deemed to be located on the easement line to which it is
closest, which shall completely include or exclude the railroad easement unless
otherwise designated.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.008 VACATION OF PUBLIC EASEMENTS.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public easement is vacated, the district
classifications of the property to which the vacated portions of land accrue
shall become the classification of the vacated land.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.009 PARKING IN DWELLING DISTRICTS R-1, R-2, AND R-3.
   (A)   Vehicle parking in Dwelling Districts R-1, R-2, and R-3 shall be
limited to parking on a PARKING SPACE as defined in §
153.006.
   (B)   Parking on grass in Districts R-1, R-2, and R-3 is prohibited.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-11-2024)
   R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 153.020 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This is the most restrictive residential district. The principal use of land
is for single-family dwellings and related recreational, religious and
educational facilities normally required to provide the basic elements of a
balanced and attractive residential area. These areas are intended to be
defined and protected from the encroachment of uses not performing a function
necessary to the residential environment. Internal stability, attractiveness,
order and efficiency is encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and
open space for dwellings and related facilities and through consideration of
the proper functional relationship of each element.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.021 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District shall be
used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Detached single-family dwelling;
   (B)   Churches;
   (C)   Public school or school offering general educational courses the same
as ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms regularly used for
housing and sleeping;
   (D)   Public parks or playgrounds;
   (E)   Library;
   (F)   General purpose farm or garden, but not the raising of livestock, or
any animal feeding operation (feedlot);
   (G)   Accessory buildings that are not a part of the main buildings,
including a private garage or accessory buildings that are a part of the main
building, including a private garage;
   (H)   Bulletin board or sign, not exceeding 20 square feet in the area
appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, which board
or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired or sold; and
   (I)   Medical facility.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.022 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review by the City Planning
Commission in accordance with the applicable ordinance provisions:
   (A)   Municipal use, public building and public utility;
   (B)   Plant nursery in which no building or structure is maintained in
connection therewith;
   (C)   Golf club;
   (D)   Home occupation; and
   (E)   Manufactured homes.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.023 LIMITATION OF USES.
   No mobile home, single wide modular home or double wide modular home shall
be temporarily or permanently affixed, set or attached within an R-1 dwelling
district for occupancy or use as a dwelling.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.024 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way
lines to comply with the following front yard requirements.
      (1)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   If 25% or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets are improved with buildings all of which have observed an
average setback line of greater than 25 feet, and no building varies more than
five feet from this average setback line, then no building shall be erected
closer to the street line than the minimum setback so established by the
existing buildings; but this regulation shall not require a front yard of
greater depth than 40 feet.
      (3)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be provided on both streets.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   For dwellings of one story located on interior lots there shall be
a side yard on each side of the main building of not less than five feet and of
not less than eight feet for dwellings of more than one story, unless
specifically provided otherwise by other city ordinances. For unattached
buildings of accessory use there shall be a side yard of not less than five
feet; provided, however, that unattached one story buildings of accessory use
shall not be required to set back more than three feet from an interior side
lot line when all parts of the accessory building are located not less than 90
feet from the front property line provided that the building meets applicable
Building Codes for fire safety set forth in the current Building Codes.
      (2)   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots there
shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than 15
feet in case such lot is back to back with another corner lot, and 25 feet in
every other case. The interior side yard shall be the same as for dwellings and
accessory buildings on an interior lot.
      (3)   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings, shall set back from all exterior and interior
side lot lines a distance of not less than 25 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard for a main building of not less
than 20 feet or 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear yard of a main
building.
   (D)   Lot width. For dwellings there shall be a minimum lot width of 50 feet
at the front building line, and such lot shall abut on a street for a distance
of not less than 35 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   For each dwelling, and building accessory thereto there shall be a
lot area of not less than 7,000 square feet.
      (2)   Where a lot has less area than herein required and all the boundary
lines of that lot touch lands under other ownership on the effective date of
this chapter that lot may be used for any of the uses, except churches,
permitted by this section.
      (3)   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking areas
required in other ordinances of the city.
   (F)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 25%
of the lot area on interior lots, and 30% of the lot area on corner lots;
accessory buildings shall not cover more than 20% of the rear yard.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.025 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height
except as may be specifically provided by other ordinances.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.026 HOME REGULATIONS; CODES FOR ALL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All utilities must be installed underground including electric.
   (B)   Curb and guttering must be in place.
   (C)   An improved surface of concrete or asphalt driveway beginning at the
city street.
   (D)   A grass front yard shall be in place within one year after occupancy.
   (E)   All lots must be kept clean and clear of trash and debris.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008; Ord. 2024-5, passed 11-7-2024)
   R-2 TWO-FAMILY DISTRICT
§ 153.040 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This is a residential district to provide for a slightly higher population
density but with basic restrictions similar to the R-1 District. The principal
use of land is for single-family and two-family dwellings and related
recreational, religious and educational facilities normally required to provide
a balanced and attractive residential area. These areas are intended to be
defined and protected from the encroachment of uses not performing a function
necessary to the residential environment. Internal stability, attractiveness,
order and efficiency are encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and
open space for dwellings and related facilities and through the consideration
of the proper functional relationship and arrangement of each element.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.041 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any uses permitted in R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District;
   (B)   Two-family dwelling or a single-family dwelling and a garage
apartment;
   (C)   Double wide modular home not less than 24 feet in width and
manufactured homes for single- family dwelling; and
   (D)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
above uses when located on the same lot.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.042 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review by the City Planning
Commission in accordance with the applicable ordinance provisions:
   (A)   Any use permitted on review in R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District;
and
   (B)   Existing structures in place upon the adoption of this chapter may,
upon review, be upgraded and/or replaced within six months after removal of
existing structures.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.043 LIMITATION OF USES.
   No mobile home, single wide modular home or double wide modular home of less
than 24 feet in width in its most narrow part, shall be temporarily or
permanently affixed, set or attached within an R-2 Dwelling District for
occupancy or use as a dwelling.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.044 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way
lines to comply with the following front yard requirements.
      (1)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   If 25% or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets are improved with buildings all of which have observed an
average setback line of greater than 25 feet, and no building varies more than
five feet from this average setback line, then no building shall be erected
closer to the street line than the minimum setback so established by the
existing buildings; but this regulation shall not require a front yard of
greater depth than 40 feet.
      (3)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be provided on both streets.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   For dwellings of one story located on interior lots, there shall be
a side yard on each side of the main building of not less than five feet and of
not less than eight feet for dwellings of more than one story and for garage
apartments. For unattached buildings of accessory use there shall be a side
yard of not less than five feet; provided however, that unattached one-story
buildings of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than three
feet from an interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory buildings
are located not less than 90 feet from the front property line provided that
the building meets the applicable Building Codes for fire safety set forth in
the current Building Codes.
      (2)   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots, there
shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than 15
feet in case such lot is back to back with another
corner lot and 25 feet in every other case. The interior side yard shall be the
same as for dwellings and accessory buildings as for an interior lot.
      (3)   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings, shall set back from all exterior and interior
side lot lines a distance of not less than 25 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. For main buildings, other than garage apartments, there
shall be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet or 20% of the depth of the lot,
whichever is smaller. Garage apartments may be located in the rear yard of a
single-family dwelling, but shall not be located closer than ten feet to the
rear lot line. Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear
yard of a main building.
   (D)   Lot width. For single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings or
single-family dwellings and garage apartments, there shall be a minimum lot
width of 50 feet at the front building line, and the lot shall abut on a street
for a distance of not less than 35 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   For each single-family dwelling and accessory buildings, there
shall be a lot area of not less than 7,000 square feet.
      (2)   For each two-family dwelling and accessory buildings, there shall
be a lot area of not less than 7,000 square feet. A lot for a garage apartment
and a single-family dwelling shall have the same area requirements as a two-
family dwelling. In all other cases, a garage apartment shall be provided with
the same lot area required by a single-family dwelling.
      (3)   Where a lot has less area than herein required and all boundary
lines of that lot touch lands under other ownership on the effective date of
this chapter, that lot may be used for any use, except churches, permitted in
the R-1 Single-Family District.
      (4)   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking area
required in other ordinances of the city.
   (F)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30%
of the lot area. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than 20% of the rear
yard.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.045 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.046 HOME REGULATIONS.
   (A) Codes for all construction.
      (1)   All utilities must be installed underground including electric.
      (2)   Curb and guttering must be in place.
      (3)   An improved surface of concrete or asphalt driveway beginning at
the city street.
      (4)   A grass front yard shall be in place within one year after
occupancy.
      (5)   All lots must be kept clean and clear of trash and debris.
   (B)   Construction codes for modular homes; permanent location. A modular
home located on an individually owned lot shall be permanently attached to the
lot.
      (1)   The modular home shall have its frame supported by, and shall be
tied to a foundation system capable of safely supporting the loads imposed as
determined from the character of the soil. The minimum foundation design shall
be a series of eight-inch grout-filled concrete block piers spaced eight feet
on center and bearing on 16 inches by 16 inches by six inches depth solid
concrete footings, running either parallel or perpendicular to frame members. A
tie-down and anchoring system separate and apart from the foundation ties shall
be provided as recommended by the manufacturer, if different from the
foundation ties. The unit shall be totally skirted with metal or other non-
degradable material.
      (2)   Axle and hitch assemblies shall be removed at the time of placement
on the foundation.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008; Ord. 2024-5, passed 11-7-2024)
   R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 153.060 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This is a residential district to provide for medium and high population
density. The principal use of land can range from single-family to multiple-
family and garage apartment uses. Certain uses which are functionally more
compatible with intensive residential uses than with commercial uses are
permitted, as are recreational, religious and educational facilities normally
required to provide the basic elements of a balanced and attractive residential
area. Internal stability, attractiveness, order and efficiency are encouraged
by providing for adequate light, air and open space for dwellings and related
facilities and through consideration of the proper functional relationship of
each element.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.061 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District shall be
used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Uses permitted in R-1 or R-2;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwelling, apartment house;
   (C)   Rooming or boarding house;
   (D)   Mobile homes and modular homes for single-family dwelling purposes;
   (E)   All mobile homes or modular homes shall be a minimum of 14 feet in
width and 54 feet in length when placed on a residential lot. Minimum standard
guidelines will be followed. If not complying within 30 days, removal from
premises is mandatory. If the mobile home is not moved, owner will be issued
fines, recurring daily;
   (F)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses
when located on the same lot;
   (G)   Mobile homes must pass inspection on minimum standards to receive
permit for utilities connection; and
   (H)   Pre-owned manufactured homes which were not more than ten years before
being located for occupancy in the city.
      (1)   Facilities required.
         (a)   Sanitary facilities. Every pre-owned manufactured home shall
contain not less than a kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or shower, and a water
closet all in working condition when properly connected to an approved water
and sewer system. Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be in
sanitary working condition free from leaks and obstructions.
         (b)   Hot and cold water supply. Every kitchen sink, lavatory and tub
or shower in a pre-owned manufactured home must be connected to a supply of
both cold and hot water.
         (c)   Water heating facilities. Every pre-owned manufactured home
shall have water-heating facilities in safe, working condition.
         (d)   Heating facilities. Every pre-owned manufactured home shall have
heating facilities in safe, working condition.
            1.   Un-vented fuel burning heaters shall be prohibited except for
gas heaters listed for un-vented use and the total input rating of the unvented
heaters is less than 20 BTU per hour per cubic foot of room content.
            2.   Un-vented fuel burning heaters shall be prohibited in bedrooms
and bathrooms.
            3.   In lieu of inspecting the heating facilities of a pre-owned
manufactured home, the retailer may request a heating inspection by a qualified
third party. Approval by such a person will be accepted as compliance with
those portions of the safety standards established herein which pertain to
heating systems.
         (e)   Smoke detector. Every pre-owned manufactured home shall be
provided approved listed smoke detectors installed in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommendations and listing.
         (f)   Windows. Every habitable room excluding bathrooms, kitchens and
hallways shall have at least one window that can be opened, facing directly to
the outdoors. Windows must be fully functional and intact with none broken.
         (g)   Ventilation. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
which can be opened or such other device that will ventilate the room.
         (h)   Electrical. Every pre-owned manufactured home electrical
components shall be in safe, working condition.
            1.   Distribution panels. Distribution panels shall be in
compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers or fuses,
with all unused openings covered with blank covers approved and listed for that
purpose. Connections shall be checked for tightness. Panels shall be
accessible.
            2.   Electrical system. The electrical system (switches,
receptacles, fixtures and the like) shall be properly installed, wired and
shall be in working condition. The pre-owned manufactured home shall be
subjected to an electrical continuity test(s) to assure that all metallic parts
are properly bonded.
            3.   Third party inspection. Approval by such a person will be
accepted as compliance with those portions of the safety standards established
herein which pertain to electrical systems.
         (i)   Exterior walls. The exterior of the home shall be free of loose
or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or
moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to the occupied spaces of the
pre-owned manufactured home.
         (j)   Exterior siding. The exterior siding of the pre-owned
manufactured home shall be free of rot and rust and must be uniform in
appearance.
         (k)   Roofs. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious
defects, which might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior
portion of the home.
         (l)   Inferior floors, walls, ceiling. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be in sound condition to prevent the admittance of rain or
moisture.
      (2)   Generally. If mobile home does not meet the guidelines in 30 days
after inspection, it must be removed from the premises. If mobile home is not
removed, the owner will be liable for recurring daily fines up to the value of
the mobile home.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008; Ord. 2022-4, passed 10-6-2022)
§ 153.062 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review by the City Planning
Commission in accordance with the applicable ordinance provisions:
   (A)   Any use permitted on review in an R-1 or R-2 Residential District;
   (B)   Child care center;
   (C)   Medical facility; and
   (D)   Mobile home court or park in compliance with §
153.061(H).
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.063 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way
lines to comply with the following front yard requirements.
      (1)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   If 25% or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets are improved with buildings all of which have observed an
average setback line of greater than 25 feet, and no building varies more than
five feet from this average setback line, then no building shall be erected
closer to the street line than the minimum setback so established by the
existing buildings; but this regulation shall not require a front yard of
greater depth than 40 feet.
      (3)   When a yard has double frontage the front yard requirements shall
be provided on both streets.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   (a)   For dwellings located on an interior lot a side yard of not
less than ten feet shall be provided on both sides of the main dwelling for the
first story and an additional five feet of side yard shall be provided for each
additional story or thereof.
         (b)   For unattached buildings of accessory use there shall be a side
yard of not less than five feet.
      (2)   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots there
shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than 15
feet in case such lot is back to back with another corner lot, and 25 feet in
every other case. The interior side yard shall be the same as for dwellings and
accessory buildings on an interior lot.
      (3)   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings and trailers, shall set back from all exterior
and interior side lot lines a distance of not less than 25 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. For main buildings, other than garage apartments, there
shall be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet or 20% of the depth of the lot,
whichever is smaller. Garage apartments may be located in the rear yard of
another dwelling, but shall not be located closer than ten feet to the rear lot
line. Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear yard of
a main building.
   (D)   Lot width. There shall be a minimum lot width of 50 feet at the front
building line for single-family and two-family dwellings, and ten feet
additional width at the front building line for each family, more than two,
occupying a dwelling. However, a lot width at the front building line shall not
be required to exceed 150 feet. A lot shall abut on a street not less than 35
feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   There shall be a lot area of not less than 7,000 square feet for a
single-family dwelling, not less than 7,000 square feet for a two-family
dwelling, and not less than 2,000 square feet for each family, more than two,
occupying a dwelling.
      (2)   There shall be a lot area of not less than 7,000 square feet where
a garage apartment is located on the same lot with a single-family dwelling.
When a garage apartment is located on the same lot with a two-family or
multiple-family dwelling the lot area shall provide not less than 2,000 square
feet more than is required for the two-family or multiple-family dwelling.
      (3)   Where a lot has less area than herein required and all boundary
lines of that lot touch lands under other ownership on the effective date of
this chapter that lot may be used for any use, except churches, permitted in
the R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District.
      (4)   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking area
required in accordance with the applicable ordinance provisions.
   (F)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 35%
of the lot area. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30% of the rear
yard.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.064 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height
except as may be specifically provided by other ordinances.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.065 HOME REGULATIONS; CODES FOR ALL CONSTRUCTION.
   R-3 home, apartment, mobile home or mobile home court regulations:
   (A)   All utilities must be installed underground including electric;
   (B)   Curb and guttering must be in place;
   (C)   An improved surface of concrete or asphalt driveway beginning at the
city street;
   (D)   A grass front yard shall be in place within one year after occupancy;
   (E)   All lots must be kept clean and clear of trash and debris; and
   (F)   Mobile/modular homes:
      (1)   The mobile/modular home shall have a minimum foundation of concrete
block piers set on concrete pads or concrete runners. A tie down and anchoring
system shall be provided as recommended by manufacturer. The unit shall be
skirted; and
      (2)   Hitch assemblies, if removable, shall be removed at the time of
placement on the foundation.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008; Ord. 2024-5, passed 11-7-2024)
§ 153.066 MOBILE HOME PARK OR COURT; CODES FOR MOBILE HOME PARK OR COURT.
   Upon compliance with the provisions as set forth herein, a mobile home
trailer park will be allowed within the R-3 Multi-Family Residential District.
   (A)   The applicant, upon making application for a zoning clearance permit,
must submit a detailed site plan locating all mobile home stand(s), screening
or fencing, and plans and specifications for the proposed park in a form
suitable for making the determinations required herein.
   (B)   The proposed site shall be a minimum of 75,000 square feet in size and
shall contain no more than 12 mobile home stands per acre. The proposed site
shall have a minimum frontage of 300 feet on a street designated as a major
street or collector street in the traffic way plan. All ingress or egress by
automobile will be on such major streets. The proposed site shall be a minimum
of 125 feet in depth and 50 feet in width per trailer space. (This 7,000 square
foot requirement shall be reduced to 6,250 square feet for all R-3 zoned land
platted prior to June 1, 1999 with lots of less than 140 feet in depth.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the intention of the proposed plan for the mobile
home park to accommodate primarily permanent occupants with no more than 10% of
the mobile home stands devoted to purely transient purposes.
      (2)   These purely transient stands are to be located in one area of the
park so they will in no way interfere with the permanent residents.
   (D)   (1)   The proposed site shall have a front yard of not less than 20
feet from the corner or line of any mobile home stand to the street boundary of
the park.
      (2)   The site shall have side and rear yards of ten feet from any solid
fencing, screen planting or wall of six feet in height.
   (E)   The proposed site shall provide two off-street parking spaces for each
mobile home stand, plus one additional off-street parking space for each four
mobile home stands.
   (F)   The proposed site shall provide a connection for each mobile home
stand to all public utilities considered necessary for the health, safety and
general welfare of the public.
   (G)   All utilities including gas, electric, water and sewer must be
underground.
   (H)   There must be in place drain gutters with curbing on all sides of the
lot of the adjoining streets (front and sides).
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.080 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   The C-1 Commercial Business District is intended for the purpose of
allowing basic retail, service and office uses. This District is also intended
to provide locations for commercial activities that do not require a central
location downtown but do require an easily accessible location. Businesses not
compatible with the central business district are included in this District.
   (B)   No structure or use in this District shall be erected or commenced
which does not have a connection to the pubic sewer system, unless and until
the County Health Officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute
disposal system can be installed and operated effectively. As a basis for
making his or her decision, the Health Officer may require such precaution
tests as he or she deems to be necessary. Such tests are to be made at the
expense of the landowner.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.081 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   No building shall be used and no building or structure shall be
erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed for other
than one of the uses listed below:
      (1)   Accessory uses;
      (2)   Ambulance services;
      (3)   Amusement places (indoors);
      (4)   Animal hospitals, clinics and kennels providing the establishment
and runs are completely enclosed in a building;
      (5)   Antique shops and stores, providing all merchandise is displayed
and sold inside a building;
      (6)   Apparel and accessory stores;
      (7)   Apartments on floors other than the ground floor;
      (8)   Appliance stores (sales, rental or repair);
      (9)   Armory;
      (10)   Art and art supply stores;
      (11)   Artist studio;
      (12)   Auditoriums and similar places of public assembly;
      (13)   Automobile accessory and supply stores;
      (14)   Automobile, truck and other motor vehicle sales, service and
rental;
      (15)   Automobile parking lots and garages;
      (16)   Bakery and pastry shop (retail only);
      (17)   Banks and other savings and lending institutions;
      (18)   Barbershops;
      (19)   Beauty shops;
      (20)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (21)   Bicycle shops;
      (22)   Boat sales and service;
      (23)   Books and stationary stores;
      (24)   Bowling alleys;
      (25)   Business and technical schools including schools for photography,
dancing and music;
      (26)   Business machine repair sales and service;
      (27)   Carpenter and cabinet shops;
      (28)   Car washes;
      (29)   Catalog stores;
      (30)   Catering establishments;
      (31)   Child care centers;
      (32)   Chiropractic, massage or similar personal services;
      (33)   Churches and other similar places of worship;
      (34)   Cigar and tobacco stores;
      (35)   Clinics (medical, dental and health);
      (36)   Clothing and costume (sales or rental);
      (37)   Computer and electronic equipment sales;
      (38)   Construction equipment, sales, service and repair;
      (39)   Construction company offices and shops;
      (40)   Custom dressmaking, millinery, tailoring and similar trades;
      (41)   Delicatessens;
      (42)   Department stores;
      (43)   Drug stores and pharmacies;
      (44)   Dry goods and notion stores;
      (45)   Dry cleaning establishments;
      (46)   Farm equipment sales, service and repair;
      (47)   Feed and fertilizer sales;
      (48)   Fire stations;
      (49)   Fix-it shops (radio, television and small household appliances);
      (50)   Florist shops;
      (51)   Frozen food lockers;
      (52)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (53)   Furniture and home furnishing stores;
      (54)   Garage and auto repair shops;
      (55)   Gift, novelty and souvenir stores;
      (56)   Golf courses including miniature golf and driving ranges;
      (57)   Government administrative buildings;
      (58)   Greenhouses, garden centers and nurseries;
      (59)   Grocery stores;
      (60)   Hardware stores;
      (61)   Heating and air conditioning shops;
      (62)   Hobby, card, stamp and coin shops;
      (63)   Hospitals;
      (64)   Hotels;
      (65)   Interior decorator’s shops;
      (66)   Jewelry and metal craft stores and shops;
      (67)   Laundry, self-service or pick-up;
      (68)   Leather goods and luggage stores;
      (69)   Libraries;
      (70)   Lock and key shops;
      (71)   Lodging houses;
      (72)   Lumber and building supply stores;
      (73)   Machine tool sales, rental and repair;
      (74)   Manufactured home sales and service;
      (75)   Medical and orthopedic appliance stores;
      (76)   Medical marijuana commercial grower licensed business;
      (77)   Medical marijuana dispensary licensed business;
      (78)   Medical marijuana processor licensed business;
      (79)   Medical marijuana testing laboratory business;
      (80)   Meeting halls;
      (81)   Messenger and telegraph service stations;
      (82)   Milk distribution stations;
      (83)   Motels. The number of motel units permitted on a tract of land
shall not exceed the number obtained by dividing the total square feet of area
of the site by 1,500. Each motel unit shall contain not less than 200 square
feet of floor area;
      (84)   Motor vehicle repair service, provided that all work shall be
performed and all materials shall be stored within an enclosed building; and
provided further that all operable or inoperable motor vehicles determined by
the City Building Inspector to be a safety hazard or visual blight shall be
screened from public view and access by a solid or semi-solid fence having a
minimum height of six feet and a visual density of no less than 90%;
      (85)   Motor vehicle body shop, provided that all work shall be performed
and all material shall be stored within an enclosed building; and provided
further that all operable or inoperable motor vehicles determined by the City
Building Inspector to be a safety hazard or visual blight shall be screened
from public view and access by a solid or semi-solid fence having a minimum
height of six feet and a visual density of no less than 90%;
      (86)   Museums;
      (87)   Music instrument sales and repair shops;
      (88)   Music studios;
      (89)   Newspaper offices;
      (90)   Newsprint, job printing and printing supply stores;
      (91)   Newsstands;
      (92)   Nursing homes;
      (93)   Offices and office building;
      (94)   Office supply and office equipment stores;
      (95)   Optician and optometrists;
      (96)   Package liquor stores;
      (97)   Paint and wall paper stores;
      (98)   Parking lots and garages;
      (99)   Parks and open spaces;
      (100)   Pawn shops;
      (101)   Pet shops;
      (102)   Photographic equipment sales and supply stores;
      (103)   Photographic studios;
      (104)   Picture framing shops;
      (105)   Plumbing shops;
      (106)   Police stations and jails;
      (107)   Post offices;
      (108)   Printers;
      (109)   Private clubs;
      (110)   Lodges;
      (111)   Professional offices;
      (112)   Public buildings used by any department of the city, county,
state or federal government;
      (113)   Public utility-telephone exchange, electric substation, radio and
television towers, water, sewers or storm sewer facilities, a piped, natural
gas operation under government franchise and contract;
      (114)   Radio and television studios;
      (115)   Recreational vehicle sales;
      (116)   Recreation centers (tax-supported or commercial);
      (117)   Recycling facilities provided that all work shall be performed
and all materials shall be stored within an enclosed building;
      (118)   Restaurants;
      (119)   Schools;
      (120)   Service stations;
      (121)   Sewing machine shops and stores;
      (122)   Sheet metal shops;
      (123)   Shoe stores (sales or repair);
      (124)   Sporting and athletic goods stores;
      (125)   Storage buildings, except for products of a highly explosive,
combustible or volatile nature;
      (126)   Stores and shops for the conduct of retail business similar to
the uses listed in this section;
      (127)   Surgical and dental supply sales;
      (128)   Tailor shops;
      (129)   Taverns;
      (130)   Television and radio sales and service;
      (131)   Theaters, indoor or outdoor drive-in;
      (132)   Tire repair shops;
      (133)   Tinsmith shops;
      (134)   Toy stores;
      (135)   Travel bureaus;
      (136)   Truck terminal or depot;
      (137)   Upholstery shops;
      (138)   Used car lots;
      (139)   Utility company offices;
      (140)   Variety stores;
      (141)   Warehouses, except for products of a highly explosive,
combustible or volatile nature;
      (142)   Watch repair shops; and
      (143)   Wholesale establishments except those which handle products of a
highly explosive, combustible or volatile nature.
   (B)   Package liquor stores, private clubs, taverns or establishments that
sell 3.2% beer must be located 300 feet from churches, schools, public
buildings and voting places.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008; Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-7-2020)
§ 153.082 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   Every lot shall have an area of not less than 2,500 square feet in area with
an average width of not less than 25 feet. A minimum of 1,500 square feet of
lot area shall be required for each apartment built above ground floor.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.083 LOT COVERAGE.
   All buildings, including accessory buildings, shall not cover more than 50%
of the lot.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.084 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in a C-1 District shall exceed 45 feet in height, with the
following exceptions:
   (A)   Public buildings, semi-public buildings, public service buildings,
hospitals, institutional buildings, schools and churches and similar places of
worship are permitted, one foot of additional height for one foot of additional
building setback provided; and
   (B)   Chimneys, cooling towers, fire towers, monuments, stacks, stage towers
or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers and spires, church
steeples, radio and television towers, electronic communications towers or
necessary mechanical appurtenances which do not conflict with airport approach
zones, may be erected to a height not to exceed 100 feet. Towers within 150
feet of a residential district shall not exceed 80 feet in height.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.085 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. Twenty-five feet. Where a lot or group of lots have a
double frontage, the required front yard shall be provided on both streets.
   (B)   Side yard. Five feet, except that on the side of a lot abutting a
residential district there shall be a side yard of at least 15 feet and on a
public road a side yard of at least 25 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. Five feet, except that on the rear of a lot abutting a
residential district, there shall be a rear yard of at least 15 feet.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.086 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Dust-proofed and properly drained off-street parking shall be provided as
follows.
Bowling alleys 5 spaces per lane
Bowling alleys                                5 spaces per lane
Convalescent and rest home                    1 space per 3 beds, plus 1 space
                                              per employee
Drive-up facilities: bank teller windows;     60 feet of waiting space ahead of
fast food pick- up; and similar facilities    facility (1 space is 20 feet)
Eating and drinking places                    Parking spaces equal to 30% of
                                              capacity in persons
Education uses                                 
   Adult day care and day care and primary Parking spaces equal to 20% of
schools                                       capacity in students or persons
                                              served
   All other                               Parking spaces equal to 40% of
                                              capacity in students
Hotels                                        1 space per rental unit
Indoor recreation centers: fitness clubs;     1 space per 125 square feet of
arcades; skating rinks; bingo parlors; and    gross floor area
similar facilities
Libraries                                     1 space per 500 square feet of
                                              floor area
Medical clinics                               5 spaces per staff doctor or
                                              dentist
Motels                                        1 space per rental unit
Offices                                       1 space per 250 square feet of
                                              gross floor area
Private clubs and lodges                      1 space per 200 square feet of
                                              floor area
Retail sales establishments                   1 space per 200 square feet of
                                              gross floor area
Service establishments                        1 space per 200 square feet gross
                                              floor area
Theaters, auditorium and places of assembly   1 space per 4 people in designed
                                              capacity
Veterinary establishments                     3 spaces per staff doctor
Wholesaling and distribution operations       1 space per 2 employees
 
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.087 BILLBOARDS.
   The applicant must file for a permit from the City Clerk’s office with a
legal description. Permit must also be obtained from the Oklahoma Department of
Transportation. Billboards allowed in C-1 only. Setbacks must follow ODOT
specifications and unless in direct conflict with ODOT, a minimum setback from
the right-of-way of 25 feet; be 20 feet off the ground; a maximum of 35 feet
high; no larger than 200 square feet in size and 150 feet away from a
residence. Content must be family friendly.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
C-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 153.100 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The C-2 General Business District is intended for the purpose of grouping
retail merchandising activities into a central shopping district serving the
general shopping needs of the trade area.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.101 USES PERMITTED.
   All uses permitted in any C-1 Commercial Business District, except armories;
construction company shops; golf course driving ranges; hospitals; manufactured
home sales and service; recycling facilities; public schools; outdoor drive-in
theaters; truck terminals or depots; and warehouses shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.102 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   No requirements except those to meet fire regulations.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.103 LOT COVERAGE.
   No restriction.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.104 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 60 feet in height.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.105 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. No front yard is required.
   (B)   Side yard. No side yard is required, except where a lot abuts on a
residential district, in which case there shall be a 15-foot side yard.
   (C)   Rear yard. A 25-foot rear yard is required.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.106 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   None required.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.120 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The purpose of the I-1 Industrial District is to provide a location for
industries which do not by their nature create nuisances. The intent is to
preserve this land for industry in a location beneficial to industries and to
prohibit non-industrial uses, because of the traffic generated and other
objectionable influences created in this District, it is necessary to provide a
buffer or setback area between this District and any other zoning district.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.121 STANDARDS.
   Any use constructed, established, altered or enlarged in the I-1 Industrial
District after the effective date of this chapter shall be so operated as to
comply with the following standards.
   (A)   No building shall be used for residential purposes, except that a
watchman may reside on the premises.
   (B)   No retail sales or services shall be permitted except as incidental to
or accessory to a permitted use.
   (C)   No noise from any operation conducted on the premises, other than that
emanating from vehicular traffic, either continuous or intermittent, shall be
detectable at any boundary line of the I-1 District.
   (D)   No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke, gas or odorous or particulate
matter shall be emitted that is detectable beyond the lot lines of the zoning
lot on which the use is located.
   (E)   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines of the zoning
lot on which the use is located.
   (F)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light upon property located in any residential district.
   (G)   The manufacture of flammable materials which produce explosive vapors
or gases is prohibited.
   (H)   Any operation that produces intense glare or heat shall be performed
within a completely enclosed building and expected sources of light shall be
screened so as not to be detectable beyond the lot lines.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.122 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Animal hospitals or clinics;
   (B)   Auto sales, repair, service and painting;
   (C)   Bakery whose primary purpose is not retail sales;
   (D)   Bottling works;
   (E)   Building materials, storage and sales (except for ready-mix concrete
and similar uses which emit dust, odor or smoke);
   (F)   Carpenter, cabinet, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and sheet
metal shops;
   (G)   Car wash establishments;
   (H)   Construction equipment sales and services;
   (I)   Contractors office and equipment storage yard;
   (J)   Dog kennels;
   (K)   Dry cleaning and/or laundry plants;
   (L)   Farm implement sales, services or storage;
   (M)   Feed and seed stores;
   (N)   Frozen food lockers;
   (O)   Grain elevators;
   (P)   Greenhouses and nurseries: retail and wholesale;
   (Q)   Machinery sales and storage lots;
   (R)   Light manufacturing operations, providing that such use is not noxious
or offensive by reason of vibration or noise beyond the confines of the
building or by emission of dust, fuels, gas, odor or smoke;
   (S)   Livestock auction sales;
   (T)   Lumber yards;
   (U)   Monument sales;
   (V)   Motor vehicle body shop, provided that all work shall be performed and
all materials shall be stored within an enclosed building; and provided further
that all operable or inoperable motor vehicles determined by the City Building
Inspector to be a safety hazard of visual blight shall be screened from public
view and access by a solid or semi-solid fence having a minimum height of six
feet and a visual density of no less than 90%;
   (W)   Motor vehicle repair service, provided that all work shall be
performed and all materials shall be stored within an enclosed building; and
provided further that all operable or inoperable motor vehicles determined by
the City Building Inspector to be a safety hazard or visual blight shall be
screened from public view and access by a solid or semi-solid fence having a
minimum height of six feet and a visual density of no less than 90%;
   (X)   Motor vehicle sales and storage;
   (Y)   Public utility and public service users:
      (1)   Municipal power plants;
      (2)   Substations;
      (3)   Railroads;
      (4)   Telephone exchanges, microwave towers, radio towers, television
towers, telephone transmission buildings, electric power plants; and
      (5)   Public utility storage yards when the entire storage area is
enclosed by at least a six-foot wall or fence.
   (Z)   Collection and distribution of recyclable items;
   (AA)   Service stations;
   (BB)   Sign printing and manufacturing;
   (CC)   Storage of bulk oil, gas or diesel;
   (DD)   Truck and rail terminals;
   (EE)   Upholstering shops;
   (FF)   Warehouses;
   (GG)   Wholesale merchandise sales and storage;
   (HH)   Blacksmith shops;
   (II)   Manufacturing or fabrication establishments which are not noxious or
offensive by reason of vibration, noise, dust, fumes, gas, odor or smoke;
   (JJ)   Radiator repair shops;
   (KK)   Storage yards providing the storage yard is completely enclosed with
a six-foot fence or wall;
   (LL)   Vehicle body repair: provided all repair operations are conducted in
a closed building, and that all outside storage shall be enclosed by a six foot
solid fence; and
   (MM)   The following uses of land may be allowed in this District by special
use permit when submitted, reviewed and approved by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment:
      (1)   Automobile wrecking yards, junk yards, scrap processing yards and
sanitary landfills subject to the following:
         (a)   Located on a tract of land at least 1,320 feet from a
residential district zone;
         (b)   The operation shall be conducted wholly within a noncombustible
building or within an area completely surrounded on all sides by a fence, wall
or hedge. The fence, wall or hedge shall be of uniform height (at least six
feet high) and uniform texture and color and shall be so maintained by the
proprietor as to ensure maximum safety to the public and preserve the general
welfare of the neighborhood. The fence, wall or hedge shall be installed in
such a manner as to retain all scrap, junk or other material within the yard;
         (c)   No junk shall be loaded, unloaded or otherwise placed, either
temporarily or permanently, outside the enclosing building, hedge, fence or
wall or within the public right-of-way;
         (d)   Burning of paper, trash, junk or other waste materials shall be
permitted only after approval of the Fire Department. Said burning, when
permitted, shall be done during daylight hours only;
         (e)   No junk, salvage, scrap, landfill or other materials shall be
piled or stacked higher than the top of the required fence or wall; and
         (f)   Said use shall not be located on or visible from an arterial or
major street or highway.
      (2)   Manufacturing of bulk oil and gas;
      (3)   Manufacturing or storage of explosives;
      (4)   Oil and gas exploration, extraction and/or production;
      (5)   Storage and warehousing of products of a highly explosive,
combustible or volatile nature;
      (6)   Wholesale and retail establishments which handle products of a
highly explosive, combustible or volatile nature;
      (7)   Ready-mix concrete and asphalt mix plants; and
      (8)   Other uses which may be noxious or offensive by reason of the
emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, noise or vibration.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.123 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   Lots in this District shall be subject to the following minimum size
requirements:
   (A)   Minimum lot size shall be 10,000 square feet; and
   (B)   Minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.124 LOT COVERAGE.
   No restriction.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.125 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   When a building or structure is within 150 feet of a residential
district zone, said building or structure shall not exceed 45 feet in height.
   (B)   When a building or structure is more than 150 feet from a residential
district zone, said building structure shall not exceed 75 feet in height.
   (C)   Must meet the regulations of the airport height zoning ordinance, as
codified in Chapter 153.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.126 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. No front yard is required.
   (B)   Side yard. No side yard is required.
   (C)   Rear yard. No rear yard is required.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.127 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   For uses also permitted in a C-1 District, parking regulations shall conform
to the C-1 District. For all other uses, dust-proofed and properly drained off-
street parking and loading facilities equivalent to one space per two employees
on the largest shift shall be provided.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
I-2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.140 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   The I-2 Industrial District is intended for the purpose of allowing
basic or primary industries which are generally not compatible with residential
and/or commercial activity.
   (B)   Certain extremely obnoxious or hazardous uses will require special
permission to locate in this District.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, neglects or refuses to comply
with any provision of this chapter, or who shall maintain, use or construct any
building or premises in violation of any of the provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined in a sum not exceeding $50 for each offense.
Each day that a violation is committed, caused or continued to exist, shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 3-3-2008)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   STREET CLOSINGS AND VACATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing Lots 1 through 12, Block 1, Hofferber Park
                     Addition, also known as the Gieselmann tract; Lots 8
                     through 10, Block 1, Mayer Addition; and all that portion
68-A     7-1-1985    of the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section 28, Township
                     5 North, range 17 E.C.M., except and specifically
                     excluding the Blackmer Addition, and except the Golf
                     Addition.
                     Annexing a parcel of land in the Blackmer Addition
2013-2   8-5-2013    containing 10.62 acres more or less, and designating the
                     annexation as R-1.
                     Annexing tract of land located in the Southwest Quarter of
2019-1   12-6-2018   Section 34, Township 5 North, Range 17 East of the
                     Cimarron Meridian, and designating the annexation as C-1.
                     Annexing Block 6, Lots 1-7 located in the Blackmer
2020-6   7-27-2020   Addition, and a plot of land to be used as a park and a
                     point of beautification for the Blackmer Addition, and
                     designating the annexation as R-1.
                     Annexing a parcel of land located in Blackmer Addition,
                     beginning at a point on the East line of the W1/2 of the
2021-2   12-2-2021   SE 1/4 of Section 28, T5N-R17ECM, containing 2.00 acres
                     and a plot of land, commencing at the NE corner of said
                     West half, containing 1.70 acres.
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting Tri-County Electric Cooperative, Inc. a franchise
2007-8   6-7-2007    for a period of ten years to use, sell, distribute and
                     supply electrical energy for light, heat, power and other
                     purposes to the city.
                     Granting Panhandle Telecommunications Systems, Inc., for a
2015-3   7-2-2015    period of ten years, a franchise to operate and maintain a
                     community antenna television system.
                     Granting Tri-County Electric Cooperative, Inc. a franchise
2017-3   6-6-2017    for a period of ten years to use, sell, distribute and
                     supply electrical energy for light, heat, power and other
                     purposes to the city.
 
TABLE III: STREET CLOSINGS AND VACATIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Res.     9-5-1956    Closing a portion of Remmel Street in the First Addition
                     to the City of Hooker.
3-1967   - -1967     Vacating a portion of the alley as platted through the
                     center of Block 1, Original Town now City of Hooker.
                     Closing a 80-foot by 150-foot portion of Clara Street
2007-1   5-7-2007    located between the east boundary line of Broadway Street
                     and the west boundary line of the alleyway, all in the
                     Original Town of Hooker.
                     Closing a 20-foot by 200-foot portion of the alley located
2008-1   4-7-2008    between Clarence Street and Russell Street and east of
                     Remmel Street on Block 61, Lots 5-12 and 13-20 in the
                     First Addition.
                     Closing a 80-foot by 125-foot portion of Hooker Street and
2010-4   10-14-2010  20-foot by 300- foot portion of the alley between Hooker
                     Street and Beaver Street.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to 1999 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Section Code Section
O.S. Section                      Code Section
3 O.S. 101 et seq.                152.01
3 O.S. 111                        152.11
11 O.S. 1-102                     96.063
11 O.S. 9-105                     30.03,
                                  31.01
11 O.S. 9-109                     30.01
11 O.S. 9-110                     30.01
11 O.S. 9-115                     30.03
11 O.S. 14-101 et seq.            Chapter 10
11 O.S. 14-101                    150.99
11 O.S. 14-104 through 14-106     10.20
11 O.S. 14-108                    10.01,
                                  10.20
11 O.S. 14-109                    10.01,
                                  10.20
11 O.S. 14-111                    10.99
11 O.S. 20-101                    11.01
11 O.S. 22-101 et seq.            Chapter 10
11 O.S. 22-101                    150.99
11 O.S. 22-107                    110.06
11 O.S. 26-101 through 26-209     Chapter 91
11 O.S. 26-107                    91.01
11 O.S. 26-108                    91.01
11 O.S. 26-109                    91.03
11 O.S. 26-110                    91.04
11 O.S. 27-101                    35.001
11 O.S. 27-102                    35.001
11 O.S. 27-103                    35.003
11 O.S. 27-109                    35.036
11 O.S. 27-111                    35.036
11 O.S. 27-113                    35.072
11 O.S. 27-119                    10.99
11 O.S. 27-123                    35.074
11 O.S. 27-124                    35.074
11 O.S. 43-101 et seq.            153.001
11 O.S. 43-101 through 43-109     32.18
11 O.S. 44-108                    152.09
11 O.S. 45-101 through 45-104     32.17
11 O.S. 507                       35.051
15 O.S. 511 et seq.               34.17
21 O.S. 1 et seq.                 130.01
21 O.S. 28                        130.02
21 O.S. 42                        130.01
21 O.S. 381                       35.051
21 O.S. 540                       35.051
21 O.S. 540(a)                    35.051
21 O.S. 644                       35.051
21 O.S. 650                       35.051
21 O.S. 856                       35.051
21 O.S. 904                       35.051
21 O.S. 1171                      131.06
21 O.S. 1214                      35.051
21 O.S. 1220                      35.051
21 O.S. 1242                      35.051
21 O.S. 1272                      132.01
21 O.S. 1287                      35.051
21 O.S. 1289.6                    35.051
21 O.S. 1289.13                   35.051
21 O.S. 1363                      35.051
21 O.S. 1364                      35.051
21 O.S. 1531                      35.051
21 O.S. 1533                      134.05
21 O.S. 1541.1                    35.051
21 O.S. 1541.1 et seq.            131.02
21 O.S. 1704                      133.01
21 O.S. 1704.2                    35.051
21 O.S. 1706                      133.01
21 O.S. 1731                      35.051
21 O.S. 1753.3                    35.051
21 O.S. 1760                      35.051
21 O.S. 1768                      35.051
22 O.S. 1261 et seq.              34.16
22 O.S. 1321 et seq.              34.16
25 O.S. 301 et seq.               152.09
37 O.S. 6-101(a)(1)               35.051
37 O.S. 8                         35.051
37 O.S. 246(a)                    35.051
37 O.S. 537(a)(1)                 35.051
37 O.S. 591                       111.05
                                  111.01,
37A O.S. 1-101 et seq.            111.04,
                                  111.07
37A O.S. 1-103v1                  111.13
37A O.S. 6-101(a)(7)              35.051
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.             70.01,
                                  Chapter 71
47 O.S. 1-101 through 1-186       70.02
47 O.S. 1-103                     70.02
47 O.S. 1-105                     71.136
47 O.S. 1-113                     35.051
47 O.S. 1-125                     70.02
47 O.S. 6-101(d)                  35.051
47 O.S. 6-101(e)                  35.051
47 O.S. 6-105                     35.051
47 O.S. 6-112                     35.051
47 O.S. 6-113                     35.051
47 O.S. 6-303                     35.051
47 O.S. 6-303(a)                  35.051
47 O.S. 6-305                     35.051
47 O.S. 7-602.1                   35.051
47 O.S. 7-602(a)                  35.051
47 O.S. 804(a)                    35.051
47 O.S. 10-114                    35.051
47 O.S. 11-103                    35.051
47 O.S. 11-201(a)                 35.051,
                                  71.022
47 O.S. 11-201(b)                 71.023
47 O.S. 11-203                    71.025
47 O.S. 11-204                    71.026
47 O.S. 11-205                    71.027
47 O.S. 11-206                    71.028
47 O.S. 11-207                    71.029
47 O.S. 11-301                    35.051,
                                  71.040
47 O.S. 11-302                    71.041
47 O.S. 11-303                    71.042
47 O.S. 11-304                    71.043
47 O.S. 11-305                    35.051,
                                  71.044
47 O.S. 11-306                    71.045,
                                  71.046
                                  71.060,
47 O.S. 11-308                    71.061,
                                  71.062
47 O.S. 11-309                    71.047
47 O.S. 11-310                    35.051,
                                  71.048
47 O.S. 11-312                    71.049
47 O.S. 11-401                    35.051,
                                  71.075
47 O.S. 11-402                    71.076
47 O.S. 11-403(b)                 71.077
47 O.S. 11-403(c)                 71.078
47 O.S. 11-405                    35.051,
                                  71.079
47 O.S. 11-502                    71.096
47 O.S. 11-503(a)                 71.098
47 O.S. 11-503(b)                 71.098
47 O.S. 11-503(c)                 71.099
47 O.S. 11-504                    71.101
47 O.S. 11-505                    71.102
47 O.S. 11-506                    71.103
47 O.S. 11-601                    71.119
47 O.S. 11-604                    71.121
                                  35.051,
47 O.S. 11-605                    71.121,
                                  71.122
47 O.S. 11-701                    71.135
47 O.S. 11-701(a)                 35.051
47 O.S. 11-702                    71.136
47 O.S. 11-703(d)                 71.077
47 O.S. 11-704                    71.136
47 O.S. 11-705                    35.051
47 O.S. 11-801                    71.150
47 O.S. 11-801(a)                 35.051
47 O.S. 11-801(c)                 35.051
47 O.S. 11-803                    71.150
47 O.S. 11-901                    71.160
47 O.S. 901 through 906.4 et seq. 72.11
47 O.S. 901 through 911 et seq.   72.99
47 O.S. 11-901                    35.051
47 O.S. 11-962                    35.051
47 O.S. 11-1003(a)                35.051
47 O.S. 11-1004(a)                71.177,
                                  72.01
47 O.S. 11-1004(b)                71.177,
                                  72.01
47 O.S. 11-1105                   71.178
47 O.S. 11-1007(a)                35.051
47 O.S. 11-1108(a)                71.179
47 O.S. 11-1109                   71.180
47 O.S. 11-1110(a)                35.051
47 O.S. 11-1112                   35.051
47 O.S. 11-1202                   73.11
47 O.S. 11-1203                   73.13
47 O.S. 11-1204                   35.051
47 O.S. 11-1205                   73.15
47 O.S. 11-1206                   73.18
47 O.S. 11-1301                   71.201
47 O.S. 11-1302                   71.202
47 O.S. 12-201                    35.051
47 O.S. 12-203.1                  35.051
47 O.S. 12-203.2                  35.051
47 O.S. 12-206                    35.051
47 O.S. 12-217.2                  35.051
47 O.S. 12-227(b)                 35.051
47 O.S. 12-301                    35.051
47 O.S. 12-401                    35.051
47 O.S. 12-401(a)                 35.051
47 O.S. 12-402                    35.051
47 O.S. 12-417                    35.051
47 O.S. 12-609(a)(2)              35.051
47 O.S. 12-609(a)(1)              35.051
47 O.S. 12-609(b)                 35.051
47 O.S. 14-105(a)                 35.051
47 O.S. 15-102                    71.150
47 O.S. 1102                      35.051
50 O.S. 1 et seq.                 Chapter 96
50 O.S. 1 through 3               96.001
50 O.S. 1                         110.05
50 O.S. 2                         110.05
50 O.S. 7                         96.006
50 O.S. 8                         96.007
50 O.S. 12                        96.007
50 O.S. 14                        96.008
50 O.S. 15                        96.002,
                                  96.008
50 O.S. 16                        96.002,
                                  96.009
50 O.S. 17                        96.010
51 O.S. 24A.1 et seq.             152.09
61 O.S. 101 et seq.               36.02,
                                  96.063
62 O.S. 310.1 et seq.             36.02
62 O.S. 348.1                     91.03
63 O.S. 1-202 et seq.             32.01
63 O.S. 2-401                     35.051
63 O.S. 2-405(b)                  35.051
68 O.S. 205                       37.33,
                                  37.61
68 O.S. 217                       37.30,
                                  37.58
68 O.S. 220                       37.30,
                                  37.58
68 O.S. 227                       37.31,
                                  37.59
                                  37.19,
68 O.S. 1351 et seq.              37.22,
                                  37.23,
                                  37.29
68 O.S. 1351 et seq.              37.21
                                  37.48,
                                  37.51,
68 O.S. 1354.14 et seq.           37.52,
                                  37.54,
                                  37.56,
                                  37.57
68 O.S. 1358                      37.23
68 O.S. 1401                      37.49
68 O.S. 1408                      37.56
68 O.S. 2601 through 2605         37.02
72 O.S. 1 through 6               110.01
75 O.S. 250 et seq.               35.020
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO 1999 CODE
 
1999 Code Section 2019 Code Section
1999 Code Section 2019 Code Section
10.01             10.01
10.02             10.02
10.03             10.03
10.04             10.04
10.05             10.05
10.06             10.06
10.07             10.07
10.08             10.08
10.09             10.09
10.10             10.10
10.11             10.11
10.12             10.12
10.13             10.13
10.14             10.14
10.15             10.15
10.16             10.16
10.17             10.17
10.18             10.18
10.19             10.19
10.20             10.20
10.21             10.21
10.22             10.22
10.23             10.23
10.24             10.24
10.99             10.99
11.01             11.01
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
30.03             30.03
31.01             31.01
31.02             31.02
31.03             31.03
31.04             31.04
31.05             31.05
32.01             32.01
32.10             32.15
32.11             32.16
32.12             32.17
32.13             32.18
33.01             33.01
33.02             33.02
33.03             33.03
33.04             33.04
33.16             33.15
33.17             33.16
34.01             34.01
34.15             34.15
34.16             34.16
34.17             34.17
34.18             34.18
35.01             35.001
35.02             35.002
35.03             35.003
35.15             35.015
35.16             35.016
35.17             35.017
35.18             35.018
35.19             35.019
35.20             35.020
35.21             35.021
35.22             35.022
35.35             35.035
35.36             35.036
35.37             35.037
35.38             35.038
35.39             35.039
35.50             35.050
35.51             35.051
35.52             35.052
35.53             35.053
35.55             35.054
35.65             35.070
35.66             35.071
35.67             35.072
35.68             35.073
35.69             35.074
35.70             35.075
35.71             35.076
36.01             36.01
36.02             36.02
37.01             37.01
37.02             37.02
37.15             37.15
37.16             37.16
37.17             37.17
37.18             37.18
37.19             37.19
37.20             37.20
37.21             37.21
37.22             37.22
37.23             37.23
37.24             37.24
37.25             37.25
37.26             37.26
37.27             37.27
37.28             37.28
37.29             37.29
37.30             37.30
37.31             37.31
37.32             37.32
37.33             37.33
37.45             37.45
37.46             37.46
37.47             37.47
37.48             37.48
37.49             37.49
37.50             37.50
37.51             37.51
37.52             37.52
37.53             37.53
37.54             37.54
37.55             37.55
37.56             37.56
37.57             37.57
37.58             37.58
37.59             37.59
37.60             37.60
37.61             37.61
38.01             38.01
38.02             38.02
38.03             38.03
38.04             38.04
38.05             38.05
38.06             38.06
39.01             39.01
39.02             39.02
40.01             40.01
40.02             40.02
40.03             40.03
40.04             40.04
40.05             40.05
40.06             40.06
40.07             40.07
41.01             41.01
50.01             50.01
52.01             52.01
52.02             52.02
52.03             52.03
52.04             52.04
52.05             52.05
52.06             52.06
52.07             52.07
52.08             52.08
52.09             52.09
52.10             52.10
52.11             52.11
52.12             52.12
53.01             53.01
53.02             53.02
53.03             53.03
53.04             53.04
70.01             70.01
70.02             70.02
70.10             70.10
70.11             70.11
70.20             70.20
70.21             70.21
70.22             70.22
70.35             70.35
70.45             70.45
70.46             70.46
70.47             70.47
70.48             70.48
70.49             70.49
70.50             70.50
70.51             70.51
70.65             70.65
70.66             70.66
70.67             70.67
70.68             70.68
70.70             70.69
70.98             70.98
70.99             70.99
71.001            71.001
71.002            71.002
71.003            71.003
71.004            71.004
71.005            71.005
71.006            71.006
71.020            71.020
71.021            71.021
71.022            71.022
71.023            71.023
71.024            71.024
71.025            71.025
71.026            71.026
71.027            71.027
71.028            71.028
71.029            71.029
71.030            71.030
71.040            71.040
71.041            71.041
71.042            71.042
71.043            71.043
71.044            71.044
71.045            71.045
71.046            71.046
71.047            71.047
71.048            71.048
71.049            71.049
71.060            71.060
71.061            71.061
71.062            71.062
71.075            71.075
71.076            71.076
71.077            71.077
71.078            71.078
71.079            71.079
71.080            71.080
71.081            71.081
71.082            71.082
71.083            71.083
71.095            71.095
71.096            71.096
71.097            71.097
71.098            71.098
71.099            71.099
71.100            71.100
71.101            71.101
71.102            71.102
71.103            71.103
71.104            71.104
71.115            71.115
71.116            71.116
71.117            71.117
71.118            71.118
71.119            71.119
71.120            71.120
71.121            71.121
71.122            71.122
71.135            71.135
71.136            71.136
71.137            71.137
71.138            71.138
71.150            71.150
71.160            71.160
71.161            71.161
71.162            71.162
71.175            71.175
71.176            71.176
71.177            71.177
71.178            71.178
71.179            71.179
71.180            71.180
71.181            71.181
71.182            71.182
71.183            71.183
71.184            71.184
71.185            71.185
71.200            71.200
71.201            71.201
71.202            71.202
71.203            71.203
71.204            71.204
71.999            71.999
72.01             72.01
72.02             72.02
72.03             72.03
72.04             72.04
72.05             72.05
72.06             72.06
72.07             72.07
72.08             72.08
72.09             72.09
72.10             72.10
72.11             72.11
72.25             72.25
72.26             72.26
72.27             72.27
72.99             72.99
73.01             73.01
73.10             73.10
73.11             73.11
73.12             73.12
73.13             73.13
73.14             73.14
73.15             73.15
73.16             73.16
73.17             73.17
73.18             73.18
73.19             73.19
73.20             73.20
73.21             73.21
73.99             73.99
90.01             90.001
90.11             90.015
90.12             90.048
90.13             90.016
90.14             90.017
90.15             90.018
90.16             90.019
90.17             90.020
90.18             90.022
90.19             90.023
90.20             90.024
90.21             90.025
90.22             90.026
90.35             90.055
90.36             90.056
90.37             90.057
90.38             90.058
90.39             90.059
90.41             90.060
90.43             90.061
90.55             90.090
90.56             90.091
90.57             90.092
90.58             90.093
90.59             90.094
90.60             90.096
90.99             90.999
91.01             91.01
91.02             91.02
91.03             91.03
91.04             91.04
91.05             91.05
91.06             91.06
91.07             91.07
91.08             91.08
91.09             91.09
91.10             91.10
91.11             91.11
91.12             91.12
91.13             91.13
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.02
92.15             92.15
92.16             92.16
92.17             92.17
92.18             92.18
92.19             92.19
92.30             92.30
92.31             92.31
92.32             92.32
92.33             92.33
92.34             92.34
92.35             92.35
92.36             92.36
92.99             92.99
93.01             93.01
93.02             93.02
93.03             93.03
93.04             93.04
93.05             93.05
93.06             93.06
93.07             93.07
93.20             93.20
93.21             93.21
93.22             93.22
93.99             93.99
94.01             94.01
94.02             94.02
94.03             94.03
94.05             94.04
94.06             94.05
94.07             94.06
94.20             94.20
94.21             94.21
94.99             94.99
95.01             95.01
95.02             95.02
95.03             95.03
95.04             95.04
95.05             95.05
96.01             96.001
96.02             96.002
96.03             96.003
96.04             96.004
96.05             96.005
96.06             96.006
96.07             96.007
96.08             96.008
96.09             96.009
96.10             96.010
96.11             96.011
96.28             96.025
96.99             96.999
97.01             97.01
97.02             97.02
97.15             97.15
97.16             97.16
97.17             97.17
97.18             97.18
97.19             97.19
97.20             97.20
97.21             97.21
97.35             97.35
97.36             97.36
97.37             97.37
97.38             97.38
110.01            110.01
110.02            110.02
110.03            110.03
110.04            110.04
110.05            110.05
110.06            110.06
110.07            110.07
110.20            110.20
110.21            110.21
111.01            111.01
111.02            111.02
111.03            111.03
111.04            111.04
111.05            111.05
111.06            111.06
111.07            111.07
111.08            111.08
111.09            111.09
111.10            111.10
111.11            111.11
111.12            111.12
111.25            111.25
111.26            111.26
111.27            111.27
111.99            111.99
113.01            112.01
113.02            112.02
113.99            112.99
130.01            130.01
130.15            130.15
130.16            130.16
131.02            131.01
131.03            131.02
131.06            131.03
131.07            131.04
131.09            131.05
131.10            131.06
131.11            131.07
131.12            131.08
132.01            132.01
132.02            132.02
132.03            132.03
132.04            132.04
132.05            132.05
132.06            132.06
132.07            132.07
132.08            132.08
132.20            132.20
133.01            133.01
133.02            133.02
133.03            133.03
133.04            133.04
133.05            133.05
133.06            133.06
133.07            133.07
134.01            134.01
134.02            134.02
134.03            134.03
134.04            134.04
134.05            134.05
134.06            134.06
134.07            134.07
134.08            134.08
150.01            150.01
150.15            150.15
150.16            150.16
150.17            150.17
150.18            150.18
150.19            150.19
150.20            150.20
150.21            150.21
150.22            150.22
150.23            150.23
150.24            150.24
150.25            150.25
151.01            73.02
151.99            73.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      9-5-1956    TSO III
–      12-5-1994   41.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
74        - -         TSO I
91        - -         TSO I
120       - -         TSO I
125       - -         TSO I
                      90.075,
2010-10   - -         90.076,
                      90.999
                      90.001,
                      90.016,
                      90.018 –
2010-12   - -         90.023,
                      90.047 
                      90.049,
                      90.999
                      90.027,
2010-13   - -         90.028,
                      90.999
126       6-3-1963    TSO I
128       10-3-1966   TSO III
3-1967    - -1967     TSO III
77        6-30-1969   TSO I
11        3-18-1969   37.15 –
                      37.33
12        7-7-1969    TSO I
14        10-5-1970   TSO III
17        8-2-1971    TSO III
16        8-3-1971    TSO II
18        10-4-1971   TSO II
20        3-4-1974    TSO III
23        10-6-1975   TSO I
29        4-4-1977    TSO III
30        6-6-1977    TSO I
32        7-7-1977    37.15 –
                      37.33
34        5-1-1978    TSO I
40        2-5-1979    TSO I
41        2-5-1979    95.01 –
                      95.05
45        6-4-1979    TSO III
48        9-2-1980    131.07
50        12-1-1980   TSO III
51        1-5-1981    35.019
52        1-5-1981    TSO II
55        10-6-1981   53.04
56        4-5-1982    TSO III
57        1-3-1983    38.04
                      10.01,
                      10.04,
                      10.14,
                      10.15,
58        2-1-1983    10.18,
                      10.20,
                      10.21,
                      10.23,
                      10.24
59        6-6-1983    TSO III
63        10-3-1983   111.27
64        10-3-1983   34.01
65        11-7-1983   35.075
66        11-7-1983   50.01
67        3-26-1984   52.03
68        3-4-1985    33.04
68-A      7-1-1985    TSO I
                      111.01 –
69        8-5-1985    111.05,
                      111.99
70        8-5-1985    111.26
71        8-5-1985    37.22
                      111.01 –
72        1-6-1986    111.05,
                      111.99
73        1-6-1986    37.22
74        2-19-1987   91.01
76        8-17-1987   53.04
                      90.018,
78        10-6-1988   90.027,
                      90.061
                      92.01,
                      92.02,
                      92.15 –
79        8-10-1989   92.19,
                      92.30 
                      92.36,
                      92.99
80        9-7-1989    36.02
–       11-6-1989   36.02
82        1-7-1991    31.02
83        1-10-1991   31.02
86        6-3-1991    30.01
88        10-3-1991   52.03
89        2-3-1992    37.45 –
                      37.61
90        5-4-1992    70.01
91        5-4-1992    130.01
92        12-7-1992   111.02
93        1-4-1993    31.04
94        4-5-1993    70.51,
                      70.99
95        7-12-1993   71.214
–       8-6-1993    71.214
96        10-4-1993   131.03
99        10-4-1993   53.04
101       5-2-1994    73.02,
                      73.99
104       2-6-1995    TSO I
105       8-7-1995    38.06
106       9-5-1995    90.016
107       9-5-1995    73.02,
                      73.99
106-A     11-21-1995  53.04
109       4-8-1996    38.06
110       8-5-1996    131.03
111       11-4-1996   37.02
112       12-2-1996   31.04
113       1-6-1997    30.02
                      70.51,
114       2-3-1997    70.99,
                      72.11,
                      72.99
                      70.51,
114-A     6-2-1997    70.99,
                      72.11,
                      72.99
117       8-11-1997   TSO I
                      70.51,
118       12-1-1997   72.11,
                      72.99
–       1-6-2000    31.04
120 99-00 3-6-2000    35.051
121       3-24-2000   52.03
122       3-24-2000   52.06
123-99-00 5-15-2000   54.01
128       4-2-2001    52.03
129       4-2-2001    54.01
130       6-21-2001   38.06
131       6-17-2002   93.20
132       6-17-2002   TSO II
                      152.01 –
133       7-8-2002    152.11,
                      152.99
137       7-10-2002   53.04
139A      8-16-2004   52.06
142       - -2006     52.06
–       3-6-2006    35.051
136       4-3-2006    TSO III
135       7-6-2006    38.06
143       8-23-2006   53.04
–       12-4-2006   31.04
145       12-4-2006   111.13
149       12-4-2006   150.01
–       4-7-2007    37.15 –
                      37.33
–       4-12-2007   37.45 –
                      37.61
2007-1    5-7-2007    TSO III
2007-2    5-7-2007    52.13
2007-3    6-4-2007    91.01 –
                      91.13
2007-7    6-4-2007    31.03
2007-8    6-7-2007    TSO II
2007-10   6-14-2007   38.06
                      51.01 –
2007-11   7-17-2007   51.10,
                      51.99
2007-12   9-6-2007    73.40 –
                      73.43
2007-5    - -2008     53.03
                      153.001 –
                      153.008,
                      153.020 
                      153.026,
                      153.040 –
                      153.046,
                      153.060 –
2008-8    3-3-2008    153.066,
                      153.080 –
                      153.087,
                      153.100 
                      153.106,
                      153.120 –
                      153.127,
                      153.140,
                      153.999
2008-1    4-7-2008    TSO III
2008-2    7-7-2008    52.08
2008-3    8-14-2008   37.22
2008-7    8-23-2008   52.06
2008-6    10-6-2008   38.06
                      110.01 –
2008-04   12-1-2008   110.07,
                      110.20,
                      110.21
2010-6    - -         150.02
–       3-12-2009   37.15 
                      37.33
2010-1    1-5-2010    54.01
                      52.05,
2010-2    4-19-2010   52.08,
                      52.99
                      150.40,
2010-3    4-19-2010   150.41,
                      150.99
–       5-3-2010    35.051
2010-4    10-14-2010  TSO III
                      151.01 –
2010-5    12-6-2010   151.03,
                      151.99
2010-7    12-6-2010   38.06
2010-6    1-10-2011   150.02
                      96.003,
2010-8    1-10-2011   96.075 –
                      96.077,
                      96.999
                      96.060 –
2010-9    1-10-2011   96.064,
                      96.999
                      96.040 –
2010-11   1-10-2011   96.045,
                      96.999
                      70.51,
                      70.99, 71.214,
2011-1    6-6-2011    71.999,
                      72.09,
                      72.99
2011-2    7-7-2011    40.01 –
                      40.07
2011-4    9-6-2011    110.02,
                      110.03
–       2-8-2012    31.04
2013-2    8-5-2013    TSO I
2014-1    2-11-2014   33.31
–       8-15-2014   35.051
2014-2    11-3-2014   38.06
2014-3    11-3-2014   30.01
2014-4    12-4-2014   30.02
2014-5    12-4-2014   31.02
2015-1    1-8-2015    39.03
2015-2    6-4-2015    51.06
2015-3    7-2-2015    TSO II
2015-4    11-5-2015   71.186,
                      71.999
                      131.40 –
2016-1    7-7-2016    131.43,
                      131.99
                      131.25 –
2016-2    7-7-2016    131.27,
                      131.99
2016-3    10-6-2016   33.30
2017-1    1-12-2017   31.04
2017-2    1-12-2017   30.02
                      35.051,
–       6-6-2017    70.99,
                      131.02
2017-3    6-6-2017    TSO II
2019-1    12-6-2018   TSO I
–       1-3-2019    31.02
–       4-4-2019    37.01
                      51.01 –
2019-3    6-13-2019   51.10,
                      51.99
2019-4    7-8-2019    36.02
                      10.21,
–       7-9-2019    10.99,
                      35.075
                      70.51, 71.214,
2019-8    7-9-2019    71.999,
                      72.09,
                      72.11
2019-5    8-1-2019    54.01
                      52.01 –
                      52.07,
2019-6    8-15-2019   52.09-
                      52.12,
                      52.99
                      93.01,
2019-9    8-15-2019   150.01,
                      150.02
2019-7    9-9-2019    33.30
                      113.01 –
2020-1    1-7-2020    113.03,
                      113.99,
                      153.081
2020-02   1-7-2020    38.06
2020-3    2-11-2020   54.01
2020-4    6-4-2020    33.31
2020-5    6-15-2020   38.06
2020-6    7-27-2020   TSO I
2020-7    10-8-2020   53.04
2021-2    12-2-2021   TSO I
2022-2    4-12-2022   73.41
2022-4    10-6-2022   153.061
                      52.01 –
                      52.07,
2024-1    4-4-2024    52.09 –
                      52.12,
                      52.99
2024-2    7-11-2024   153.009
-         9-5-2024    35.051
2024-3    10-3-2024   73.41
                      153.026,
2024-5    11-7-2024   153.046,
                      153.065
2024-6    12-5-2024   150.41
2025-1    3-3-2025    33.16
                     
 
