CITY CODE OF
JAY, OK
2016
Code current through:
Ord. 392, passed 3-3-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Jay, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 392, passed March 13, 2025, and resolution 2023-17, passed
October 2, 2023. Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede
the provisions of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or
inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether
any particular provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 303
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF JAY,
OKLAHOMA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN,
EXCEPT AS HEREAFTER PROVIDED; PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME
EFFECTIVE; PROVIDING FOR SALE AND COPIES IN THE CLERK'S OFFICE; PROVIDING FOR
SUPPLEMENTS OR CHANGES TO CODE; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF JAY,
OKLAHOMA, DELAWARE COUNTY, OKLAHOMA, THAT:
SECTION 1. TITLE.
A code and revision of the ordinances of the city of Jay is hereby adopted as
the "code of ordinances, city of Jay, Oklahoma," or by any other properly
identifying designation.
SECTION 2. CODE SUPERSEDES OTHER ORDINANCES.
This code shall be treated and considered as a new and comprehensive
compilation of ordinances of the city which shall supersede all other general
and permanent ordinances enacted by the council prior to February 6th, 2017.
However, all provisions which are incorporated by reference are expressly saved
from repeal and shall continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE, REPEAL.
All provisions of this code shall be in full force and effect from the date
this ordinance becomes law. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of
the city in effect on or before February 6th, 2017, and not in the code or
recognized and continued in force by reference herein and which are in conflict
herewith, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 4. ORDINANCES NOT REPEALED.
The repeal provided for in section 3 hereof shall not affect any offense or act
committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or
right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing
the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of
the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the city; nor shall the repeal affect the administrative
regulations or resolution of the city council not in conflict or inconsistent
with the provisions of the code; nor shall the repeal affect any right or
franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the city council to any
person, firm or corporation; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, vacating,
etc., any street or public way in the city; nor shall the repeal affect any
annual budget or salary ordinance; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
levying or imposing taxes; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance providing for local improvements and
assessing charges therefor; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance extending
the limits of the city; nor shall the repeal be construed to revive any
ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance
which is repealed by this ordinance. The continuance in effect of temporary or
special ordinances and parts of ordinances, although omitted from the code,
shall not be affected by such omission therefrom; and the adoption of the code
shall not repeal or amend any such ordinance or part of any such ordinance.
SECTION 5. CODE NOT NEW ENACTMENT.
The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this code, shall be
considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
SECTION 6. ORDINANCES ADOPTED AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE.
Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature passed or
adopted after the effective date of this code may be passed or adopted either:
1. In the form of amendments to the code of ordinances adopted by this
ordinance; or
2. Without specific reference to the code.
In either case, all such ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed
amendments to the code. All of the substantive permanent and general parts of
such ordinances and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made
in the code whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance
of the council, as provided hereinafter.
SECTION 7. SUPPLEMENTS TO CODE.
Any modification or supplement to the code of ordinances shall be updated
electronically and/or printed as authorized by the city council. A change to
the code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of
ordinances passed by the council or adopted by initiative and referendum during
the period covered by the change and all changes made thereby in the code. All
changes shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and,
where necessary, replace provisions which have become obsolete or partially
obsolete, and new provisions shall be so prepared that, when they have been
inserted, the code will be sequentially numbered and updated as required. The
city clerk shall be responsible for updating all official copies of the code
maintained by the city and placed in the Delaware County law library as
required by state statute.
SECTION 8. PREPARATION OF CODE.
The code of ordinances hereby approved by the council of the city of Jay and
are adopted in compliance with sections 14-109 et seq. of title 11 of the
Oklahoma Statutes.
SECTION 9. EMERGENCY.
Reference being made to "section 3" hereinbefore set out, it is immediately
necessary for the preservation of the peace, health and safety of the city and
the inhabitants thereof that the provisions of this code not heretofore enacted
be put into full force and effect. An emergency is hereby declared to exist, by
reason whereof this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and
after its passage, as provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of February, 2017, by the mayor and city
council of the city of Jay, Oklahoma.
      CITY OF JAY/JAY UTILITIES AUTHORITY
         By:    
                Les Newkirk, Mayor
ATTEST:
Camrine Thompson, City Clerk
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF JAY,
DELAWARE COUNTY, OKLAHOMA
PREAMBLE
We, the people of the City of Jay, under the authority of the Constitution and
laws of the State of Oklahoma, do ordain and establish this Charter for the
City of Jay.
ARTICLE I
NAME, BOUNDARIES, RIGHTS, LIABILITIES, POWERS
Section 1. NAME; BOUNDARIES.
The municipal corporation now existing and known as "The City of Jay" shall
remain and continue a body politic and corporate under the same boundaries with
power and authority to change its boundaries in the manner authorized by law.
Section 2. RIGHT; LIABILITIES; POWERS.
   (a)   By the name of "The City of Jay", the City shall have perpetual
succession and shall own, possess or hold all real and personal property
heretofore owned, possessed or held by the said City of Jay, and shall assume,
manage and dispose of all trusts in any connected herewith.
   (b)   Shall succeed to all the rights and liabilities and shall acquire all
benefits, and shall assume and pay all bonds, obligations and any indebtedness
of said City of Jay, by that name may sue and defend, plead and may have and
use a common seal and alter the same at pleasure, may purchase, receive, hold
and enjoy, or sell and dispose of real and personal property, with a thirty
(30) day published notice with intent to allow for protest.
   (c)   May receive bequests, devises, gifts and donations of all kinds of
property, in fee simple or in trust, for public, charitable or other purposes;
and to all things and acts necessary to carry out the purposes of such
bequests, devises, gifts and donations with power to manage, sell, lease or
otherwise dispose of the same in accordance with the terms of the bequests,
devises, gifts or donations.
   (d)   Shall have the power within or without its territorial limits to
construct, condemn and purchase, acquire, lease, add to, maintain, conduct and
operate waterworks, gas distribution system, sewage disposal system, and other
public utilities or works or ways, and everything required therefor, for the
use of said City and the inhabitants thereof.
   (e)   The legislative, executive and judicial powers of the City shall
extend to all matters of local and Municipal government, it being the intent
hereof that the specification of particular powers by any other provision of
this Charter shall never be construed as impairing the effects of the general
grant of powers of local government hereby bestowed.
   (f)   The City shall have all powers, privileges and functions which by or
pursuant to the Constitution and laws of this State have been or could be
granted to or exercised by any city of the first class.
   (g)   The City shall have the power to license and regulate by ordinance the
transportation of persons and property within the streets, alleys, and all
other public places in the City, and to prescribe by ordinance rules governing
all persons, corporations or vehicles engaged or used in such transportation.
   (h)   All powers of the City shall, except as otherwise provided in this
Charter, be vested in the officers and agents hereinafter provided for and
subject to distribution and delegation of such powers as provided in this
Charter, or by ordinance.
ARTICLE II
ELECTIONS
Section 3. TIME OF ELECTION; OFFICIALS ELECTED.
A general election shall be held the first Tuesday in April of 2019 after the
passage of this amended Charter. In this election, there shall be elected one
Mayor, one Chief of Police, one City Clerk and one Treasurer, all from the City
at large. Additionally, there shall be elected from each ward, one Councilman.
A general election shall be held the first Tuesday in April of 2021, and there
shall be elected a Mayor, City Clerk, and Council members from Wards 2 and 4,
all of whom shall be elected for a four (4) year term. Elections for Mayor,
City Clerk, and Council members from Wards 2 and 4 shall occur every four (4)
years thereafter.
A general election shall be held the first Tuesday in April of 2023, and there
shall be elected a Chief of Police, Treasurer, and Council members from Wards 1
and 3, all of whom shall be elected for a four (4) year term. Elections for
Chief of Police, Treasurer, and Council members from Wards 1 and 3 shall occur
every four (4) years thereafter.
The terms of the officials elected hereunder shall begin on the first Monday
following the election and they shall serve their elected terms. (Election 8-
28-2018)
Section 4. BOUNDARIES OF WARDS.
For the purpose of election and of representation upon the City Council, the
City is divided into four wards which shall be bounded and described as
follows:
Ward 1: North of Dial Street, Ward 2: South of Dial Street and North of
Delaware Street, Ward 3: South of Delaware Street to City limits. Wards 1, 2,
and 3 are bounded on the West by Section Line Road. Ward 4, West of Section
Line Road to City limits.
The City Council may by ordinance create additional wards or change the
boundaries of the wards established by this Charter for the purpose of creating
and maintaining more nearly equal representation of the people upon the City
Council.
Section 5. QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
No person shall be eligible to be a candidate for or to hold any elective
office of the City unless he be a citizen of the United States and of the State
of Oklahoma, an actual resident of the City and a qualified voter in the City.
To be eligible to be a candidate for or to hold office as Councilman from any
ward such candidate or official must also be an actual resident and qualified
voter of said ward at least thirty (30) days prior to filing. (1990 City
Charter)
Section 6. FILING AND MANNER OF ELECTION.
Any person possessing the qualifications of section 5 above may become a
candidate for any of the elective offices by filing, with the Delaware County
Election Board between the hours of 8:00 A.M. through 5:00 P.M. on the first
Monday in February of an odd numbered year and closing the following Wednesday,
his or her written request to be placed on the official ballot. The Delaware
County Election Board Office shall prepare an official ballot setting forth the
names of the qualified candidates in accordance with such requests and with the
provisions of this Charter and only such official ballots shall be used at such
election. The candidate for any office to be filled receiving the highest
number of votes cast for such office shall be declared elected to said office.
In the event that any two (2) or more candidates are tied for the highest
number of votes cast for any such office, a run-off election shall be held one
week after such regular election which shall be conducted in all respects as
the regular election at which election the candidates tied for the highest
number of votes cast for such office or offices shall be voted upon and the
candidate receiving the highest number of votes cast for such office or offices
shall be declared elected to said office or offices, and in the event of
further ties for the highest number of votes cast for any office, the City
Council holding office at the time of such run-off election shall elect such
officer from the candidates voted upon at such run-off election. (Ord. 289, 12-
1-2014)
Section 7. PROCEDURE IN CONDUCTING ELECTION.
With regard to precincts, polling, printing of ballots, counting and return of
ballots and in all other respects not specifically provided for herein the City
shall be governed in all elections including special elections by the
Constitution and laws of the State of Oklahoma.
ARTICLE III
THE CITY COUNCIL
Section 8. LEGISLATIVE POWERS.
The legislative powers of the City government shall be vested in the City
Council composed of a Councilman from each ward and the Mayor. The Mayor and
the Council may exercise such legislative powers as may be authorized by and
not inconsistent with the Constitution and general laws of the State of
Oklahoma and this Charter, and shall set up such judicial authority as it may
deem necessary to enforce the ordinances of the City.
Section 9. VACANCIES.
Whenever a vacancy occurs in the Council from any cause during the unexpired
term of a Councilman, the Mayor with the consent of the Council shall appoint
an eligible person from the ward in which the vacancy occurs to fill such
vacancy until the next regular Municipal election at which time a Councilman
will be elected from such ward to fill such unexpired term, provided that in
the event such vacancy occurs during the last year of such term such
appointment shall be made for the whole unexpired term.
Section 10. REMOVAL BY COUNCIL.
Whenever any person elected or appointed to the Council neglects or refuses or
fails to qualify within ten days of the beginning of the term to which he has
been chosen, and whenever a councilman neglects or refuses or fails to attend
the meetings of the council for ninety days without first having consent of the
council entered upon its records, moves from the city, is convicted of a felony
or is judicially declared incompetent, as defined by statute, the mayor and
council may declare that a vacancy exists and proceed to select a successor to
such councilman in the manner provided by this charter.
Section 11. HOLDING OTHER OFFICES.
No member of the council shall be appointed to any salaried office or salaried
position under the city during the term of office as councilman for which he
was elected or appointed.
Section 12. NO DIRECT INTEREST IN CITY EXPENDITURES.
No member of the council shall have any financial interest in or reap any
financial benefit directly or indirectly from any expenditures of the city,
save as the result of the general benefit arising from the maintenance of the
streets, alleys, parks and public places in the city of Jay, other than as set
out in section 15.
Section 13. PRESIDING OFFICER; PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL AND CLERK.
The mayor shall preside over the council at its sessions. A president of the
council shall be elected by the council from its members, who shall reside in
the absence of or the disability of the mayor. The city clerk shall be clerk of
the council, and shall, with the mayor, sign and attest all ordinances and
resolutions.
Section 14. PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
In the event of the absence, disability, resignation or removal of the mayor,
the president of the council, elected as hereinbefore provided, shall act as
mayor until the mayor shall have returned or recovered from his disability, or
until a successor to the mayor shall have been elected and qualified.
Section 15. REGULAR MEETINGS.
The council shall hold regular meetings on the first Monday of each month or at
such time as the council may by ordinance designate, and may hold such
adjourned meetings as it may find necessary for the dispatch of its business,
provided that if the regular meeting date falls on a legal holiday, the meeting
shall be held upon the succeeding day. Members of the council shall receive
$50.00 for each month in which they have attended all regular, special and
committee meetings.
Section 16. SPECIAL MEETINGS.
Special meetings of the council may be called by the mayor, or by three (3)
councilmen at any time on such notice as the council may prescribe by
ordinances, but the purpose of such meeting shall be set forth in such call and
no other business shall be transacted at such meeting.
Section 17. QUORUM.
A majority of the members of the governing board shall constitute a quorum to
do business, but a less number may adjourn to any date prior to the next
regular meeting. The council shall have and sit with open doors at legislative
sessions and shall keep a journal of its proceedings which shall be a public
record. The mayor shall be a member of the governing board and shall be counted
for purposes of establishing a quorum.
Section 18. RULES OF PROCEDURE.
The council shall, subject to the provisions of this charter, determine its own
rules of procedure.
Section 19. FINAL PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES.
No ordinance shall be passed finally on the date when it is introduced except
in case of public emergency, the nature of which emergency shall be clearly
stated in such ordinance. No ordinance making a grant of any franchise or
special privilege shall ever be passed as an emergency measure.
Section 20. PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
Every ordinance adopted shall be published once in a newspaper published and of
general circulation in the city and shall not take effect until 30 days after
such publication except emergency ordinances passed as provided for in this
article, which shall take effect upon passage and publication, subject always
to the provisions of the referendum; and further provided that this section
shall not apply to special assessment ordinances, but such ordinances shall be
governed by the provisions of the statutes of the state.
Section 21. AMENDMENT, REPEAL.
No ordinance or section thereof shall be amended or repealed except by
ordinance adopted in the manner provided in this charter.
Section 22. RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
A true copy of every ordinance shall be left in a book marked "Ordinance
Record" and authenticated by the signatures of the mayor and clerk.
Section 23. PROOF OF ORDINANCE.
Any ordinance may be provided by a copy thereof certified by the clerk, under
the seal of the city; or when printed in a book or pamphlet form published by
the authority of the city, the same shall be received in evidence in all courts
and other places, without further proof.
Section 24. ADMINISTRATIVE ORDINANCES.
The council shall have the power, and it shall be its duty to pass ordinances
which may be proper and expedient to regulate and determine the organization
and procedure of administrative departments.
Section 25. FIREMENS' RELIEF AND PENSION FUND.
The city council shall adopt and enact such measures and ordinances as are
necessary to establish a firemens' relief and pension fund and to entitle the
city to an allocation of funds by the insurance commissioner of the state of
Oklahoma under the laws of the state of Oklahoma in force at the time of the
adoption of this charter and shall continue in operation such system of relief,
pension and retirement for firemen until or unless the laws of the state of
Oklahoma are substantially changed.
Section 26. HEALTH BENEFIT AND RETIREMENT PROGRAMS.
The city council is empowered and authorized to provide a health benefit
program and a retirement program for all city employees.
ARTICLE IV
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section 27. ELECTED OFFICERS.
All elected officers in office at the time of the taking effect of this charter
shall continue in such office until the election on the first Tuesday in April,
1991, unless a vacancy occurs by reason of death, resignation, removal from
office, or other cause mentioned in this charter.
Section 28. CONTINUANCE IN OFFICE.
All persons holding any non-elective office or employment, not eliminated by
this charter, under the city at the time when this charter goes into force and
effect shall continue in such office or employment and shall draw the same rate
of compensation as during the month preceding the adoption of this charter
until removed or until the compensation is changed.
Section 29. CHANGES IN COMPENSATION.
The council may by ordinance change, designate and fix the salary of the
elected officers of the city of Jay, said change to become effective at the
beginning of the succeeding term of office.
Section 30. COMPENSATION OF NON-ELECTIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
The city council shall fix the compensation of all non-elective officers and
employees.
Section 31. SELECTION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE CITY OF JAY.
All officers and employees of the city of Jay, other than elective officers and
except as herein specifically provided, shall be appointed by the mayor with
the consent and confirmation of the council.
Section 32. REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
The mayor and council may by a vote of a majority of all its members, to be
entered upon the journal, remove for cause any unelected officer. The mayor,
and elected officers may be removed from office for the causes and in the
manner now provided by the laws of the state of Oklahoma for removal of county
officers.
Section 33. OATH OF OFFICE.
All elected officers shall upon assuming office take and subscribe to an oath
to support the constitution of the United States and of the state of Oklahoma
and the charter of the city of Jay and diligently to perform the duties of
their office, and not advocate or give aid or support to any person, group or
party advocating the overthrow of the United States, state or municipal
government by force, violence or other unlawful means.
Section 34. BONDS.
The city council shall designate by ordinance or resolution what officers or
employees of the city shall give bond and the amount thereof in each case. The
bonds of all officials and employees of the city of Jay shall be good and
acceptable surety bonds of solvent surety companies and shall meet with the
approval of the mayor and the council.
Section 35. THE MAYOR.
   (a)   The mayor shall sign all contracts, bonds, or other instruments
requiring the assent of the city and take care that the same are fully
performed.
   (b)   The mayor shall call all special municipal elections as in this
charter or the laws of the state provide.
   (c)   He shall perform such other duties not inconsistent with the purposes
and provisions of this charter as the council may assign to him.
   (d)   He shall be the chief administrative officer of the city and shall
have supervision of all branches of the city service except as otherwise
provided in this charter.
   (e)   He shall see to the faithful execution of all laws and ordinances of
the city and state.
   (f)   He shall have power at any time to investigate the affairs of any
department. He shall have power to compel the production of books, papers and
other evidence.
   (g)   He shall attend all meetings of the council and may take part in the
discussions but shall not vote except in case of a tie when he may cast the
deciding vote.
   (h)   He shall keep the council advised of all the needs of the city and
shall recommend measures for its adoption.
   (i)   He shall perform all such other duties as may be imposed on him by
this charter or ordinance.
Section 36. DUTIES OF THE CITY CLERK.
The city clerk shall be a recording officer and shall be the custodian of all
documents and records of the city of Jay, except such departmental records as
shall be delegated by the council or therein reserved to be kept by the
departmental heads. The city clerk shall keep the record of appropriations and
expenditures of payment of indebtedness, minutes of all meetings of the
council, and such other records as the council may instruct the clerk to keep.
Section 37. DUTIES OF THE TREASURER.
The city treasurer shall be the custodian of all funds belonging to the city of
Jay. The city treasurer shall keep a proper record and system of accounts of
all funds coming into his control.
Section 38. DUTIES OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE.
The chief of police shall enforce the laws of the state of Oklahoma and the
city of Jay and be subject, in the operation of this department, to the orders
of the mayor and city council.
ARTICLE V
MUNICIPAL UTILITY BOARD
Section 39. BOARD CREATED.
There is hereby created a municipal utility board which shall consist of the
mayor and the city council.
Section 40. DUTIES.
The utility board shall have the care, custody and management of the existing
water system, gas distribution system and sewage disposal system and may
enlarge and extend them as the necessity therefor arises except as otherwise
provided herein. It shall have under its control the complete operation of
these utilities and such others as the people of the city of Jay may acquire.
All of these utilities shall be collectively known as the municipal utility
department.
The utility board shall employ all persons necessary in the operation of the
utilities, and fix their salaries, conditions of servitude and terms of office.
The utility board shall adopt such rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary for the proper conduct of the business.
Section 41. FURNISHING UTILITIES AND OTHER SERVICES.
The municipal utility department shall be operated for the general welfare,
safety and health of the city of Jay and the citizens thereof through the
furnishing of water, gas service, a sewage disposal system and such other
public services as may be placed upon it, for public and private uses at
reasonable rates, providing a reasonable profit to furnish revenue for the
operation of other governmental and administrative functions of the city.
Section 42. APPLICATION OF REVENUES.
The revenue derived from the operation of the utility department shall be
applied, first for the payment of the ordinary operating expenses of the
utility department and the retirement of utility department warrants or
certificates of indebtedness issued for such expenses within the scope of the
operating expenses shall be included the cost of the ordinary operation, the
expenses incidental to the running of the new services and the installation of
new meters without major extension of lines, cost of minor extension of lines
and cost of replacements due to obsolescence. Except as otherwise provided
herein, such expenditures shall not exceed and shall be paid out of the
revenues of the utility department of the year in which they arise.
The utility board shall set aside out of its revenues a reserve for
depreciation, replacement of obsolete equipment and for emergency repairs. Such
reserve shall be created for the purpose of ensuring a fund for the
replacement, without incurring municipal indebtedness, of property, machinery,
equipment and supplies which the board anticipates will become worn out or
obsolete in the future, and to provide an emergency fund in cases of
destruction or injury to utility properties by reason of fire, wind, lightning
and the like. If practicable, such reserve shall be created gradually and over
a period of years and in any one year shall not exceed 20 percent of the net
profits of the utility departments for that year.
Section 43. SURPLUS REVENUES.
In the event that the revenues derived from the operation of the utility
department shall exceed the ordinary operating expenses as defined herein and
the reserve authorized to be set aside from such revenues in the next preceding
section, such surplus revenues shall be applied by the mayor and the city
council as follows:
First: For the current interest and accruals in the sinking fund of the city of
Jay.
Second: For the general fund of the city of Jay.
Section 44. MAJOR IMPROVEMENTS AND EXTENSIONS.
Major improvements and extensions of the utility department services
necessitating an indebtedness in excess of the revenues and appropriations for
the year in which such indebtedness is created may be made only with the
authority of a majority of the qualified electors voting at an election legally
called for that purpose. When authorized by a vote of the people for that
purpose the utility board may issue securities for improvements and extensions
of the utility department against the future revenues of the department, or the
city may create bonded indebtedness for that purpose as provided by law.
Section 45. ELECTIONS TO AUTHORIZE INCURRING OF INDEBTEDNESS.
Upon demand therefor by the municipal utility board by its resolution presented
to him, the mayor shall within ten days after such presentation call a special
election and submit to the qualified electors any requested issue relative to
the authority of the municipal utility department or the creating of
indebtedness to meet the needs of the municipal utility department.
Section 46. STATEMENT OF ESTIMATED NEEDS.
The utility board shall cause to be prepared at the end of the fiscal year a
statement of its estimated needs for the ensuing year and shall appropriate
funds from the department revenues to provide for said estimates and said
statement shall be made a part of and published with the financial statement
and estimated needs of the city of Jay.
ARTICLE VI
OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS AND BOARDS
Section 47. CITY ADMINISTRATION.
The city administration under the mayor shall consist of a police department,
fire department, street department, health department, ambulance department,
and such other departments as the city council may prescribe by ordinance.
   (a)   The police department shall consist of the chief of police and as many
other subordinate police officers and employees as may be provided for by the
city council. Such subordinate police officers or employees shall be appointed
by the chief of police with the consent and confirmation of the majority of the
members of the city council and the mayor.
   (b)   The fire department shall be governed by the applicable laws of the
state of Oklahoma. All officers shall be chosen by vote of members of the fire
department.
   (c)   The street department shall consist of a superintendent of streets
appointed by the mayor with the consent and confirmation of the council and as
many other officers and employees as may be provided for by the mayor and
council.
   (d)   The ambulance department shall consist of a director appointed by the
mayor with the consent and confirmation of the council and as many other
officers or employees as may be provided for by the mayor and council.
Section 48. POLICE DEPARTMENT.
It shall be the duty of the police department to maintain order and to enforce
the laws and ordinances of the state and city and to that end every officer
shall have the power and it shall be his duty to make arrests upon warrant, or
without warrant when he shall be a witness to the violation of any law or
ordinance, and he shall bring the accused before the court having jurisdiction
without unnecessary delay. The police department and all officers thereof shall
perform all such other duties as may be required of them by laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations which may be made governing the police department.
Section 49. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
The council shall provide by ordinance for a health department. The chief
health officer of the city shall be a graduate of a reputable medical college.
He shall be required to maintain such office hours as shall be designated by
the council. The mayor may appoint the county superintendent of health of
Delaware County as chief health officer of the city, in which event he shall
have sufficient time from his duties as city health officer to perform all the
duties incumbent upon him by law as county superintendent of health.
Section 51. PHYSICIANS REPORT TO DEPARTMENT.
Every physician in the city shall promptly report in writing to the health
department every patient treated by him for any infectious, contagious or
communicable disease dangerous to the public health, and every householder upon
reasonable notice from such department that an occupant of his house is
suffering from such disease shall forthwith adopt such preventive means and
regulations as the department may prescribe. Every physician who shall fail to
report such cases of sickness, as required herein, and every householder who
shall fail to comply with rules, regulations and requirements of the department
of health, shall be subject to such fines and penalties as the council may
prescribe by ordinance.
Section 52. QUARANTINE.
The council shall have power to pass all ordinances and regulations necessary
for the prevention of the public health, and the suppression of disease and to
establish quarantines of any locality or house.
Section 53. LIBRARY; PARKS; CEMETERY.
The mayor and council may elect to place the operation of the city library, the
city parks and the city cemetery under the control of boards whose members
shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent and approval of the council,
and serve without pay. They shall have the custody and care of the departments
under their control.
Thirty days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year said boards shall
present to the city council a detailed statement of the estimated needs and
expenses for the ensuing year.
ARTICLE VII
THE INITIATIVE AND THE REFERENDUM
Section 54. DIRECT LEGISLATION.
Any proposed ordinance may be submitted to the mayor and council by petition
signed by qualified electors of the city, equal in number of the percentage
hereinafter required.
Section 55. TWENTY FIVE PERCENTUM PETITION.
If the petition accompanying the proposed ordinance be signed by qualified
electors equal in number to twenty five percentum of the total votes cast for
all candidates for mayor at the preceding election and contains a request that
said proposed ordinance be submitted to a vote of the people, if not passed by
the council, the mayor and council shall submit such proposed ordinance to a
vote of the qualified electors of the city at an election, regular or special,
to be held for that purpose, and unless such ordinance is passed by the mayor
and council, the form of such petition, the manner of procuring and filing the
same, and the time and manner within which election shall be held thereunder,
shall be governed by ordinance or ordinances sufficient to carry out the
purpose of this provision.
Section 56. SEVERAL ORDINANCES AT ONE ELECTION.
Any number of proposed ordinances may be voted on at the same election in
accordance with the provisions of this article and the ordinances which may be
passed by the council in furtherance thereof.
Section 57. LIMIT TO SPECIAL ELECTION.
There shall not be held under this article of the charter more than one special
election in any period of twelve months for the submission of the same
proposition.
Section 58. REPEAL OF ELECTORAL ORDINANCE.
The council may submit a proposition for the repeal or amendment of any
ordinance so adopted by electoral vote to be voted upon at any succeeding
regular municipal election, and should such proposition so submitted receive a
majority of the votes cast therefor at such election, such ordinance shall be
repealed or amended accordingly. No ordinance adopted by electoral vote can be
repealed or amended except by electoral vote.
Section 59. MODE OF PROTESTING AGAINST ORDINANCES.
No ordinance passed by the mayor and council shall go into effect before 30
days from the time of its passage, except ordinances making a tax levy or
appropriations or in respect to improvement districts or subdistricts and
special assessments; and excepting also any ordinance for the immediate
preservation of the public health, peace or safety which contains a statement
of its urgency. If, during said 30 days, a petition signed by the qualified
electors of the city equal in number to at least twenty five percentum of the
last preceding vote cast for all candidates for mayor be presented to the mayor
and council, protesting against the going into effect of such ordinance, the
same shall be suspended from going into effect and it shall be the duty of the
mayor and the council to reconsider such ordinance and if the name be not
entirely repealed, the mayor and council shall submit the ordinance to a vote
of the qualified electors of the city, either at the next regular municipal
election or at a special election to be called for that purpose, and such
ordinance shall not go into effect unless a majority of the qualified electors
voting on the same shall vote in favor thereof.
Section 60. REFERENCE BY THE COUNCIL.
The council may, on its own motion, submit to electoral vote for adoption or
rejection at a regular or special municipal election any proposed ordinance, or
measure, in the manner and with the same force and effect as if a petition
therefor had been filed as provided in the last preceding section.
Section 61. ORDINANCE RECEIVING THE HIGHEST NUMBER OF VOTES TO PREVAIL.
If the provisions of two or more proposed ordinances or measures adopted or
approved at the same election conflict, then the ordinance or measure receiving
the highest affirmative vote shall control.
Section 62.
No Section.
Section 63. THE ENACTING CLAUSE.
The style of every ordinance submitted to the vote of the people by initiative
petition or by the voluntary action of the council shall be as follows: "Be it
ordained by the people of the city of Jay:" and every such ordinance when
passed by popular vote shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the clerk
as so passed.
Section 64. INITIATIVE ORDINANCES REPEALED BY ELECTORAL VOTE.
The mayor and council may submit the repeal of or any proposed amendment of any
ordinance so adopted to the electors to be voted upon any succeeding regular
election, and should such proposal for repeal or amendment receive an
affirmative majority of all votes cast thereon, such ordinance shall be
repealed or amended accordingly.
ARTICLE VIII
FRANCHISES
Section 65. FRANCHISES GRANTED UPON VOTE.
No franchise shall ever be granted, extended, renewed or leased by the city
without the approval of a majority of the qualified electors residing within
the corporate limits who shall vote thereon at a special or regular election
and the question of its being granted shall not be submitted to such vote
except upon deposit with the treasurer of the expense or such submission (to be
determined by the council) by the applicant for said franchise.
Section 66. FRANCHISE PETITIONS.
Whenever a petition is signed by a number of qualified electors of the city of
Jay equal to twenty five percentum of the total number of votes cast at the
next preceding regular municipal election, demanding that franchise be granted,
extended or renewed, it shall be filed with the mayor, who shall within ten
days thereafter call a special election at which he shall submit the question
of whether or not such franchise shall be granted, extended or renewed and if
at said election a majority of the electors voting thereon shall vote for the
grant, extension or renewal of such franchise, the same shall be granted by the
mayor and council at the next succeeding regular meeting of the council.
Section 67. POWER TO REGULATE RATES AND FARES.
Subject to the power reserved by the constitution of this state to the
corporation commission, all power to regulate the rates, fares and charge for
service by public utility corporations is hereby reserved to the people to be
exercised by them by ordinance of the council or in the manner herein provided
for initiation or referring an ordinance. Any right of regulation shall further
include the right to require uniform, convenient and adequate service to the
public and reasonable extensions of such services and of such public utility
works.
Section 68. ORDINANCE IN PLAIN TERMS.
No franchise, right, privilege or license shall be considered as granted by any
ordinance except when expressed therein in plain and unambiguous terms and any
and every ambiguity therein shall be construed in favor of the city and against
the claimant under said ordinance.
Section 69. FRANCHISE PROVIDE FOR SAFETY, ETC.
The grant of every franchise or privilege shall be subject to the right of the
city, whether in terms reserved or not, to make all regulations which shall be
necessary to secure in the most ample manner the safety, welfare and
accommodation of the public, including among other things the right to pass and
enforce ordinances to require proper and adequate extensions of service of such
grant and to protect the public from danger or inconvenience in the operation
of any work or business authorized by the grant of the franchise and the right
to make and enforce all such regulations as shall be reasonably necessary to
secure extensions and accommodations for the people and ensure their comfort
and convenience.
Section 70. EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE.
No exclusive franchise shall ever be granted.
Section 71. NO FRANCHISE LEASED EXCEPT.
No franchise granted by the city shall ever be leased, assigned or otherwise
alienated without the express and written consent of the city, and no rule of
estoppel shall ever be invoked against the city's asserting the invalidity of
any attempted transfer in violation of this section.
Section 72. RENEWAL.
No franchise shall be renewed before five years prior to its expiration.
Section 73. TERMS NOT LONGER THAN TWENTY FIVE YEARS; COMPENSATION.
No franchise, lease or right to use the streets or the public places or
property of the city shall be granted by the city for a period longer than
twenty five years, nor without fair compensation to the city therefor, and in
addition to the other forms of compensation to be therein provided, the grantee
shall be required to pay annually to the city such franchise and of the plant
used therewith as shall be fixed in the grant and said franchise. Every grant
of a franchise shall fix the amount and manner of the payment of the
compensation to be paid by the grantee for the use of the same, but this shall
not exempt the grantee from any lawful taxation upon his or its property nor
from any licenses, charges or impositions not levied on account of such use.
Section 74. MATTERS IN CHARTER NOT TO IMPAIR RIGHT OF COUNCIL TO INSERT OTHER
MATTERS IN FRANCHISES.
The enumeration and specification of particular matters in this charter which
must be included in every franchise or grant shall never be construed as
impairing the right of the city to insert in such franchise or grant, such
other further matters, conditions, covenants, terms, restrictions, limitations,
burdens, taxes, assessments, rates, fares, rentals, charges, controls,
forfeitures or any other provisions whatever, as may be deemed proper to
protect the interests of the people.
ARTICLE IX
PUBLIC MONIES AND FINANCE
Section 75. SINKING FUNDS.
All sinking funds collected and accumulated from time to time for the purpose
of meeting any future maturing bonded or other indebtedness, except such as may
from time to time be invested in lawful securities, are hereby required to be
placed on time deposit in solvent banks, which are members of the federal
deposit insurance corporation, at the highest rate of interest that can be
secured from such bank or banks upon certificates of deposit for such funds,
and no part of such funds shall be at any time deposited in any bank at a lower
rate of interest when another qualified bank is willing to accept the same on
time deposit and pay a higher rate of interest on such deposit; provided,
however, that the deposit in any bank shall never be in excess of its capital
and surplus. On making deposits of such sinking funds, the treasurer shall take
from each institution or institutions as security for such deposits negotiable
interest bearing United States, state, county, school district, general
assessment municipal bonds, or surety company bonds in an amount not less than
the amount of such deposit. In the investment and application of such sinking
funds, the provisions of section 541, of title 62, Oklahoma Statutes 1941, and
such other existing laws of the state of Oklahoma as may be applicable shall
govern the officers of the city of Jay in such investment and application, and
by reference are hereby incorporated as provisions of this charter.
Section 76. FISCAL YEAR.
The fiscal year of the city shall commence on the first day of July and end on
the last day of June of the succeeding year.
Section 77. AUDITS.
The mayor and council shall have power in case of necessity to employ special
counsel and special expert accountants or auditors for the purpose of making
special examinations of the books and accounts of any officer or department of
the city of Jay, and annually at the close of the fiscal year shall cause the
books and accounts of all officers and departments, including the utility
department, to be audited by a certified public accountant. Said accountant
shall prepare a detailed statement of all expenditures and revenues of all
departments of the city for the preceding year and furnish same to the mayor
and council in time to be made a part of the city's annual statement of
revenues and expenditures and estimated needs for the ensuing year.
Section 78. APPROPRIATIONS.
The mayor and council shall receive the statement of the probable needs of the
various officers and heads of departments under their control, shall consider
the sufficiency and necessity in said statement, and from these statements and
the anticipated revenues for the ensuing year, they shall compile a statement
of estimated needs and appropriations for the general government of the city
for the ensuing year.
Section 79. STATE LAWS APPLICABLE.
The laws of the state of Oklahoma relative to purchase orders and the filing of
claims against cities and all other laws of the state of Oklahoma relative to
public monies and public finance, applicable to cities of the first class and
not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter or any amendments thereto
shall govern and control the city of Jay.
ARTICLE X
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 80. SIGNATURE AND SEAL.
All documents of the city of Jay shall bear the signature of the mayor,
attested by the city clerk, and the official seal of the city.
Section 81. PRESENT ORDINANCES CONTINUE IN FORCE.
All laws, ordinances, resolutions, bylaws, orders, rules or regulations in
force in the city of Jay at the time this charter takes effect, and not
inconsistent with the provisions of the charter, whether enacted by the
authority of the city or by any other authority, shall continue in full force
and effect until the council otherwise by ordinance provides, notwithstanding
any change of organization effected by this charter.
Section 82. CONTINUING BONDS, ETC.
All official bonds, recognizances, obligations and all other instruments
entered into or executed by or to the city before this charter takes effect,
and all taxes, fines, penalties and forfeitures due or owing to the city, and
all writs, prosecutions, actions and causes of action, except as herein
provided, shall continue and remain unaffected by this charter.
Section 83. OFFICIAL BOOKS, RECORDS, ETC.
   (a)   All books, records and papers of every office, department, board or
commission are city property and must be kept as such by the proper officers or
employees during their continuance in office and then delivered to their
successors, who give duplicate receipts therefor one of which shall be filed
with the clerk.
   (b)   Certified copies of extracts from the books, records and files shall
be given by the officer, board, commission, or employee having the same in
custody, to any person demanding the same and paying a reasonable price
therefor.
   (c)   All equipment, collections, models, materials, instruments, tools and
implements which are collected, maintained, used or kept by the city of Jay or
by any department officer, board or commission shall be city property and be
duly accounted for or turned over to their respective successor.
Section 84. CONSTITUTION AND LAWS OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
All provisions of the constitution and laws of the state of Oklahoma, other
than the laws especially applicable to cities of the first class, in force at
the time this charter becomes effective or that may be thereafter adopted or
enacted, not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter or any amendments
thereto, and all provisions of the state of Oklahoma applicable to cities
having a charter form of government are hereby recognized as governing and
controlling in and upon the city of Jay.
Section 85. AMENDMENTS.
This charter may be amended, revised or repealed in the manner authorized by
the laws of the state of Oklahoma.
Section 86. EFFECT OF UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF ANY SECTION.
If any section, paragraph, sentence or phrase of this charter shall be declared
unconstitutional or void for any reason by any court of final jurisdiction,
such fact shall not in any manner invalidate or affect any other section,
paragraph, sentence or phrase of this charter but the same shall continue in
full force and effect.
CITY CHARTER
CERTIFICATE
State of Oklahoma, Delaware County, ss:
I, the undersigned, duly elected, qualified and acting mayor and chief
executive officer of the city of Jay, Delaware County, Oklahoma, hereby certify
that, at a special election held in said city on the 18th day of December 1990,
a proposed charter for said city, a true and correct printed copy of which is
hereto attached, was submitted to the qualified electors of said city and was
ratified by a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon, the vote being
seventy five for, and thirty nine against, the adoption and ratification of
said charter.
Dated this 27th day of December, 1990.
         Bill Roberts
         Mayor of the City Of Jay
 
ATTEST: (SEAL OF CITY)
 
Waltzie Bryant, City Clerk
 
   A P P R O V A L
It appearing that the proposed charter of the city of Jay, Delaware County,
Oklahoma, as shown by the printed copy thereof, hereto attached, is not in
conflict with the constitution or laws of the state of Oklahoma, the same is
hereby approved by me, this 20th day of February, 1991.
         David Walters
         Governor of the State of Oklahoma
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
JAY CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments Or Additions To This Code
1-1-4: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be, and
shall hereafter constitute, the official city code of Jay. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the JAY CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2016 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2016 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS OR ADDITIONS TO THIS CODE:
   A.   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code or ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code of ordinances may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection
or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages.
   B.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language:
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Jay, Oklahoma, that section
           of the code of ordinances of the City of Jay, Oklahoma, is hereby
amended to read as follows: (Set out new provisions in full.)
   C.   When the council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in this code, which the
city council desires to incorporate into this code, a section in substantially
the following language may be made part of the ordinance:
Section             Be it further ordained by the City Council of the City of
Jay, Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a
part of the code of ordinances of the City of Jay, Oklahoma, and the affected
sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish this intent.
   D.   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code intended to
be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number. (1985
Code § 1-106)
1-1-4: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY:
The provisions of this code and all ordinances now in effect are hereby
extended to all real property belonging to or under control of the city, or its
legally constituted agencies outside the corporate limits of the city, and
shall be in full effect therein, insofar as they are applicable. (1985 Code §
1-110)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1985 Code § 1-107; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of
the city's indebtedness.
      2.   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for city officers.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust.
      6.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
      7.   Improvement ordinances.
      8.   Bond ordinances.
      9.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      10.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city.
      11.   All special ordinances.
   B.   All ordinances listed in subsection A of this section shall continue in
full force and effect to the same extent as if fully set out herein. (2016
Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts:
      1.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect. (2016 Code)
      2.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. (1985 Code § 1-104)
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2016 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code, or any codes
or portions of codes adopted herein, are severable, and if any phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph, or section of this code or any code adopted herein, or of
any ordinance in this code shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal or
otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of
the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this
code, or of any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   Law: Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the constitution
and statutes of the state of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the city, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   F.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   G.   Or/And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the
sense requires it.
   H.   Preceding, Following: The next before and next after, respectively.
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   K.   Officers, Employees, Agencies Generally: Whenever any officer,
employee, agency or department is referred to by title only, such reference
shall be construed as if followed by the words "of the city of Jay".
   L.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   M.   Statutory References: Reference to the statutes of the state of
Oklahoma means the statutes as they now are or as they may be amended to be.
   N.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1985 Code §
1-102; amd. 2016 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CITY: The city of Jay, county of Delaware, state of Oklahoma. The word "city"
shall be construed as if the words "of Jay, Oklahoma", followed.
CODE: This code of the city of Jay.
COUNCIL OR CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Jay.
COUNTY: The county of Delaware, Oklahoma.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
STATE OR THE STATE: The state of Oklahoma. (1985 Code § 1-102; amd. 2016 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty; Imprisonment; Fines And Costs
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY; IMPRISONMENT; FINES AND COSTS:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in
this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this
code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor,
the violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) plus court costs and penalties, or by imprisonment. Each day or any
portion of a day during which a violation of this code or of any ordinance
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 248, 11-4-2002)
   B.   Aiding Or Abetting: Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the
violation of any provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in this section. All fines are recoverable by civil action before any
court of competent jurisdiction in addition to any method provided by law.
(1985 Code § 1-108)
   C.   Failure To Pay Fine Or Costs; Working On Streets; Additional Fees: All
of the sections in this code pertaining to the amount of court costs are hereby
amended to read as follows: (Ord. 247, 11-4-2002)
      1.   Any person fined for a violation of this code or a municipal
ordinance who is financially able but refuses or neglects to pay the fine or
costs will be compelled to satisfy the amount owed by working on the streets,
alleys, avenues, areas, and public grounds of the city subject to the direction
of the street superintendent or other proper officer, at a rate per day as the
governing body may prescribe by ordinance, but not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) per day for use for labor, until the fine or costs are satisfied.
      2.   The amount of court costs to be charged to a defendant in the event
of a bond forfeiture, guilty plea, or conviction, shall not exceed the sum of
fifty dollars ($50.00) plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses, plus
penalties as set forth in subsection D of this section. (Ord. 247, 11-4-2002;
amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   In addition to any fines imposed, there shall be assessed a fee of
ten dollars ($10.00) for the initial filing of any surety bond, which fee shall
be assessed as a court cost to the defendant and collected at the time of the
filing of said bond.
      4.   The maximum fine for traffic related offenses relating to speeding
or parking shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus costs and
penalties. For all other offenses, the maximum shall not exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) plus costs and penalties. (Ord. 247, 11-4-2002)
   D.   Costs: If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the court
shall tax the costs to the defendant plus the fees and mileages of any
witnesses or jurors, which said fine shall not exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) plus court costs and penalties and up to thirty (30) days in jail.
(Ord. 248, 11-4-2002)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2016 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 5
CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Official Map
1-5-2: Ward Numbers And Boundaries
1-5-1: OFFICIAL MAP:
The map of the city showing its territorial limits, maintained in the office of
the city clerk, is hereby designated as the official map of the city, and the
corporate limits as shown thereon are declared to be the true and correct
corporate limits of the city, including all annexations made to the city. (1985
Code § 1-201; amd. 2016 Code)
1-5-2: WARD NUMBERS AND BOUNDARIES:
The ward numbers and boundaries shall be as follows:
Ward 1: North of Dial Street.
Ward 2: South of Dial Street and North of Delaware Street.
Ward 3: South of Delaware Street to city limits. Wards 1, 2, and 3 are bounded
on the west by Section Line Road.
Ward 4: West of Section Line Road to city limits. (1985 Code § 1-202; amd. 2016
Code)
CHAPTER 6
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Placement Of Official City Seal
1-6-1: PLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL CITY SEAL:
   A.   There shall be affixed to all buildings and vehicles, as well as all
motorized equipment owned and operated by the city, the official city seal.
   B.   The official seal shall be affixed in such a manner at the front door
of all buildings owned by or operated by the city so that all citizens passing
can see it when entering or exiting said buildings.
   C.   The official seal shall not be required to be affixed to any building
owned but not occupied or used by the city.
   D.   The official seal shall be affixed on both sides of all motor vehicles
owned and operated by the city in a manner easily seen by all citizens.
   E.   The official seal shall be affixed to all motorized equipment owned by
the city in the same manner as it is affixed to motor vehicles when it is
applicable to the said motorized piece of equipment.
   F.   It shall be the responsibility of the department superintendent or his
designee to get all needed official city seals affixed to the department's
buildings, vehicles and any motorized equipment of the department. (Ord. 275,
8-5-2011)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIVE OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Elective Officers; Terms
1-7-2: Qualification Of Council Members
1-7-1: ELECTIVE OFFICERS; TERMS:
   A.   Election; Terms: The mayor, chief of police, city clerk and city
treasurer shall be elected by the qualified electors of the city in an odd
numbered year, from the city at large, and shall serve for four (4) year terms.
In that same year, two (2) council members shall be elected from their
respective wards to serve for four (4) year terms. In the next odd numbered
year, the other two (2) council members shall be elected from their respective
wards to serve four (4) year terms, so that the terms of the council members
are staggered.
   B.   Serving Of Terms: The terms of the officers shall begin on the first
Monday following the election. These officers shall serve until their
respective successors have been elected and qualify.
   C.   Composition: The city council shall consist of four (4) council
members, one from each of the four (4) wards, and the mayor. (1985 Code ch. 1
part 1 § 1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
1-7-2: QUALIFICATION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The council members shall be residents and qualified voters of the city. The
council members from wards shall be actual residents of their respective wards
at the time of their candidacy and election; but removal of a council member
from one ward to another within the city after his election, or a change in
ward boundaries, shall not disqualify him from completing the term for which he
was elected. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Body Corporate
1-8-2: Powers And Duties
1-8-3: Mayor And Vice Mayor
1-8-4: Council Meetings
1-8-5: Agenda; Order Of Business
1-8-1: BODY CORPORATE:
The mayor and council of the city and their successors in office shall
constitute a body politic and corporate, by the name of the city of Jay, and
shall be capable in law to prosecute and defend suits to which they are a
party. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 2-1)
1-8-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
All powers of an aldermanic city, including the determination of matters of
policy, shall be vested in the council. Without limitation of the foregoing,
the council may:
   A.   Enact municipal legislation subject to limitations as may now or
hereafter be imposed by the Oklahoma constitution and law.
   B.   Raise revenue, make appropriations, regulate salaries and wages, and
all other fiscal affairs of the city, subject to such limitations as may now or
hereafter be imposed by the Oklahoma constitution and law.
   C.   Inquire into the conduct of any office, department or agency of the
city, and investigate municipal affairs, or authorize and provide for such
inquiries.
   D.   Appoint or elect and remove its own subordinates, members of
commissions and boards and other quasi-legislative officers as provided by law,
or prescribe the method of appointing or electing and removing them.
   E.   Create, change and abolish offices, departments and agencies other than
those established by law, and assign additional functions and duties to
offices, departments and agencies established by this code.
   F.   Grant pardons for violations of municipal ordinances, including the
remission of fines and costs, upon the recommendation of the municipal judge.
(1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 2-2; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-3: MAYOR AND VICE MAYOR:
   A.   Election: The mayor shall be elected from the general public every four
(4) years. The council shall elect from among its members a vice mayor who
shall be elected in each odd numbered year at the first council meeting held
after council terms begin, or as soon thereafter as practicable, and shall
serve until the respective successor has been elected and qualified. (1985 Code
ch. 1 part 1 § 2-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council, and shall
certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by
it. He shall be recognized as head of the city government for all ceremonial
purposes and by the governor for purposes of military law. He shall sign all
conveyances and other written obligations of the city as the council may
require. He shall also keep the council advised of the financial condition and
future needs of the city. The mayor shall submit to the council a report after
the end of the fiscal year on the finances and administrative activities of the
city for the preceding year.
      2.   The vice mayor shall act as mayor during the absence, disability or
suspension of the mayor. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Clothing, Expense Allowance For Mayor: The mayor shall be allowed a
clothing/personal allowance of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month. (Ord.
242, 10-29-2001)
1-8-4: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the city council shall be
held in the meeting room between city hall and the police department, at times
to be determined by resolution of the council to meet seasonal time changes, on
the first Monday evening of each month, unless such date is a legal holiday, in
which case such meeting shall be held on the following evening at the same time
(5:00 P.M.) and place. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 3-1; amd. Ord. 189, 6-16-1986;
2016 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the city council shall be held as
called by any one of the following:
      1.   At the call of the mayor;
      2.   At the call of any three (3) council members;
      3.   Upon decision by the council in regular session. (1985 Code ch. 1
part 1 § 3-2)
   C.   Emergency Meetings: Emergency meetings of the city council shall be
held as called by the mayor or any three (3) council members, for the purpose
of dealing with an emergency. "Emergency", in this instance, shall mean a
situation involving injury or imminent danger to persons; or injury or damage
and/or potential injury or damage to public property; or immediate financial
loss when the time requirements for public notice of a special meeting would
make such procedure impractical and increase the likelihood of injury or damage
or immediate financial loss. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 3-3)
   D.   Executive Sessions: The city council, upon proper motion and a vote of
the majority of a quorum present, may go into executive session, excluding all
others, for discussion of matters pertinent to personnel. However, all such
sessions and actions resultant therefrom shall be in strict compliance with the
open meeting law of the state. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 3-4)
   E.   Agenda Meetings: Informal agenda meetings may be called for the purpose
of discussing particularly complex issues for which considerable study may be
advisable for determining all facets necessary to conclusion. Agenda meetings
shall be informational and educational in nature and no official action may be
taken on any item discussed. Call of an agenda meeting shall be effected
through the same procedure as that for a special meeting outlined in subsection
B of this section. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 3-5)
   F.   Committee Meetings: Committees established by and advisory to the city
council shall meet at such times as the committee chairman may declare or as
provided by the city council. All committee meetings shall be held in strict
compliance with the open meeting law. Actions of committees shall be reported
at regular meetings of the city council and recommendations of such committees
shall be formally presented for action by the city council. (1985 Code ch. 1
part 1 § 3-6)
1-8-5: AGENDA; ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Formulation Of Agenda: Each item of business for consideration by the
city council at any regular, special or other meeting of the council shall
first be placed on a written agenda, to be included as an integral part of the
public notice pertinent to each such meeting. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 4-1)
   B.   Preparation: The preparation of the agenda for each meeting of the city
council or any committee thereof shall be the responsibility of the city clerk,
under supervision of the mayor. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 4-2)
   C.   Placement Of Items On Agenda: An item of new business may be placed on
the agenda by the mayor or any member of the city council at any time prior to
four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on the immediately preceding Thursday prior to each
regular meeting, or within forty eight (48) hours prior to a called special
meeting of the city council. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 4-3)
   D.   Public Notice; Posting Time And Place: The agenda for any regular,
special or other meeting of the city council and/or meetings of the various
committees shall be posted on the bulletin board on the south side of city hall
within the time frames as indicated below: (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 4-4; amd.
2016 Code)
      1.   Regular Meetings (All): Twenty four (24) hours prior to scheduled
time and date of meeting, such twenty four (24) hour period not to include
weekends or holidays. (Normal posting time for regular meetings of the city
council would be 4:00 P.M. on Friday preceding meeting date.)
      2.   Special Meetings: Forty eight (48) hours prior to scheduled time and
date of meeting.
      3.   Emergency Meeting: As soon as can reasonably be accomplished. (1985
Code ch. 1 part 1 § 4-4)
   E.   Order Of Business: The order of business to be reflected on the agenda
for each regular meeting of the city council may be as shown below. The order
of items under old business or new business may be amended by the mayor to
accommodate persons present to address a particular item. (1985 Code ch. 1 part
1 § 4-5)
      1.   Call to order.
      2.   Roll call.
      3.   Approval of minutes.
      4.   Consider and act on the consent agenda. Use of a consent agenda is
intended to speed up the process for considering routine business. All items on
the consent agenda will be approved by one motion. Prior to approval, any
member of the City Council may request removal of any item for discussion and
action on the regular agenda.
      5.   Approval of warrants.
      6.   Committee reports.
      7.   Old business.
      8.   New business.
      9.   Comments from council members.
      10.   Mayor’s report.
      11.   Adjournment. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 4-5; amd. 2016 Code; Ord.
350, 8-3-2020)
ARTICLE A. GENERAL RULES AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Rules Of Order
1-8A-2: Chair Accession
1-8A-3: Staff Attendance At Council Meetings
1-8A-4: Expenses Of Mayor And Council Members
1-8A-5: City Records
1-8A-6: Official Stationery
1-8A-7: Personnel Policies
1-8A-8: Official Inquiry Or Investigation
1-8A-9: Member Discipline
1-8A-10: Handling Citizen Complaints
1-8A-11: Financial Affairs
1-8A-12: Approval Of Warrants
1-8A-13: Legislative Process; Ordinance Passage
1-8A-1: RULES OF ORDER:
Rules of order in conduct of regular meetings of the city council shall be a
locally modified form of general parliamentary procedure, not rigidly adhering
to "Robert's Rules Of Order". The mayor, as chairman presiding, may declare
motions precedent and major as circumstances dictate. General rules of order,
such as relate to presentation of motions, voting, etc., shall prevail. (1985
Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-1)
1-8A-2: CHAIR ACCESSION:
The mayor shall act as chairman, presiding at all meetings of the city council.
In the absence of the mayor, the elected vice mayor shall preside. In the event
both the mayor and vice mayor are absent, the quorum present shall elect a
mayor pro tem to preside at the meeting. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-2)
1-8A-3: STAFF ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS:
The following members of the city staff shall be in attendance at each called
meeting of the city council:
   A.   City Clerk: The city clerk shall act as secretary to the council,
recording the proceedings of each meeting in sufficient details to reflect the
primary points of importance affecting each decision of the council. The clerk
shall have the following references present at each meeting:
      1.   Register of minutes for the current calendar year.
      2.   One copy of the OML handbook.
      3.   One copy of the Oklahoma municipal code.
      4.   One copy of the current city code.
      5.   Tape recorder with sufficient tape to record proceedings of meeting.
(Tapes of meetings shall be retained under control of the city clerk for a
period of 3 years following the date of the meeting.)
   B.   Police Chief: The police chief will act as sergeant at arms in
attendance at each meeting of the city council.
   C.   City Attorney: The city attorney shall be in attendance at each meeting
of the city council. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-3; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8A-4: EXPENSES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The mayor and council members serve without compensation. However, each elected
official, in the conduct of their office while representing the city (at
functions outside the city), shall be entitled to reimbursement for their
expenses. For purposes of reimbursement, mileage allowance at the rate as
allowed by state statute per mile, plus out of pocket expenses for meals,
registration fees, etc., shall be reimbursed by a procedure to be outlined by
the city clerk. Vouchers, supported by mileage figures and receipts for other
reimbursable expenses, shall be required. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-4; amd.
2016 Code)
1-8A-5: CITY RECORDS:
   A.   Records Management: The city clerk shall have responsibility for
conducting a records management program for the city. In compliance with state
statutes relevant to records keeping and records maintenance programs, the city
clerk shall control current and noncurrent records in conformance with such
retention periods as cited statutes dictate. Prior to destruction of any
record, a certificate of destruction will be prepared, listing each obsolete
record to be destroyed, and a certificate of destruction will be prepared,
listing each obsolete record to be destroyed, and approved by the city council.
(1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-13)
   B.   Possession; Control System: Members of city council and staff will
require access to and frequent possession of references and documents relevant
to the affairs of city government. For control purposes, no reference work or
document may be taken except by receipt with the city clerk. The city clerk
shall establish a control system by which council members and staff may sign
for documents in their possession. The clerk shall effect control of all
official records of the city to allow knowledge of location of such records at
all times.
   C.   Clerk To Provide Reading Area: The city clerk shall designate an area
for citizen review of city records and shall allow review of such records as
cannot be removed from the clerk's office. In the event that such demands are
made upon the area provided such that all desiring to review records cannot be
accommodated, the clerk shall be empowered to place reasonable time limits on
use of this service.
   D.   Clerk To Provide Copies: Copies of city records and documents may be
made by the city clerk for members of the public desiring such service. For the
purpose of defraying the expense of such service, the following charges shall
apply. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-5)
      1.   Minimum charge: Thirty cents ($0.30) for one copy.
      2.   Additional charge: Thirty cents ($0.30) per copy, not to exceed ten
(10) copies (covers 10 copies of 1 page or 1 copy each of 10 pages).
      3.   In excess of ten (10) copies: Thirty cents ($0.30) per copy plus a
time charge based upon appointment of each hour (1/2 hour minimum) times the
hourly wage figure of the person assigned to operate the copier. (1985 Code ch.
1 part 1 § 5-5; amd. 2016 Code)
      4.   No personal or private documents will be copied for citizens since
it is not the purpose of city government to compete with private business firms
who provide copier service. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-5)
1-8A-6: OFFICIAL STATIONERY:
It shall be the policy of the city to utilize a letterhead stationery with a
logo reflective of the attributes of the community but without names of elected
or appointed officials. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-6)
1-8A-7: PERSONNEL POLICIES:
In order to effect a viable system of personnel management and administration,
it will be the goal of the city council to research and evaluate personnel
systems as will mutually benefit the city and staff personnel. Consideration of
compensation and/or benefit adjustments will be made only during the budget
preparation period prior to budget adoption for each fiscal year. Regulation
governing administration of personnel matters will be adopted in ordinance form
and made a part of this code. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-8)
1-8A-8: OFFICIAL INQUIRY OR INVESTIGATION:
The city council and its individual members are constrained by state statute in
the conduct of inquiries into the operation of the various departments of city
government. Thus, in conformance with such statute and in order to act as a
body in such inquiries as are necessary, the following procedure will apply:
   A.   In the event a member of the council feels that a certain department is
not meeting its responsibilities or is in some manner performing outside its
authority, and consultation with the mayor has not resolved such problems, that
member may request that an item be placed on the agenda for any regular meeting
for conduct of inquiry.
   B.   Agreement by any four (4) members of the council, as evidenced by a
voice vote in regular session of the council, shall be sufficient to initiate
an official inquiry.
   C.   A board of inquiry shall be appointed to inquire into the operation of
such departments as is deemed suspect, and report made to the full council at
the next regular session of the city council.
   D.   The mayor shall be charged with responsibility to effect remedial
actions as the council may direct. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-9)
1-8A-9: MEMBER DISCIPLINE:
In conformance with state statute and section
1-8A-8 of this article, individual members of the city council shall refrain
from interference and/or personal conduct of inquiries into departmental
operations of city government. Each member shall deal with such concerns as may
be presented to them through personal contact with the mayor; provided, that
such matters as will effect the establishment of or a change in policy must be
presented to the city council for determination. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-
10)
1-8A-10: HANDLING CITIZEN COMPLAINTS:
It shall be the policy of the city council that citizen complaints be directed
to the mayor for resolution. This does not negate the reliance by the
electorate on individual council members, however. Thus, in response to
inquiries by the electorate in instances wherein they prefer to deal with the
council member, such council member will contact the mayor for resolution and
respond to his constituent. Citizens will be encouraged to deal directly with
the mayor whose responsibility it is to administer policies and enforce
ordinances of the city. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-11)
1-8A-11: FINANCIAL AFFAIRS:
   A.   Policy; Compliance With Statute: It shall be the policy of the city
council that all financial and fiscal affairs be conducted in consonance with
the various state statutes governing such matters and in equitable and fair
distribution of funds to be invested from the various accounts of the general
fund and beneficial trusts. Investment procedures shall be promulgated in a
manner best suited to serve the city and in conformance with 62 Oklahoma
Statutes.
   B.   Finance Committee: There shall be established a finance committee,
membership of which shall be constituted by two (2) members of the city
council, the city clerk and city treasurer. The mayor shall serve as an advisor
to the committee. Such matters as deemed appropriate by application shall be
considered by the finance committee as a recommending body to the city council.
(1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 5-12; amd. Ord. 362, 8-1-2022; Ord. 378, 11-6-2023)
1-8A-12: APPROVAL OF WARRANTS:
Warrants considered by the appointed finance committee shall be presented
generally at the regular meeting first scheduled in a given calendar month
(first Monday). Specific recommendations, where deemed appropriate, may be
presented by the finance committee regarding the approval of selected warrants
in order to apprise the council of any extraordinary expenditures. (1985 Code
ch. 1 part 1 § 6-1; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8A-13: LEGISLATIVE PROCESS; ORDINANCE PASSAGE:
   A.   Acts Of Legislation: Passage of particular acts of legislation to
effect temporary and permanent types of policy shall be in accordance with the
following:
      1.   A resolution will be enacted to effect policy for a temporary or
known duration or to effect instruction/direction to perform signatory
functions. A resolution may also serve for purposes of recognition, support, or
temporary appointments.
      2.   An ordinance shall be enacted to effect all rules, regulations, and
requirements of a general and permanent nature. Such ordinances shall be
codified into a single volume which shall be known as the "Jay City Code".
(1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 6-2)
   B.   Ordinances, Other Applications: Other applications wherein an ordinance
will be enacted may include closures of public use areas; setting elections;
establishing franchise uses; budget appropriations; effecting bond issues, and
other actions not relevant to general and permanent affectations. Such
ordinances, by content, need not be included in the codification of ordinances.
(1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 6-3)
   C.   Passage Of Ordinances: The enactment of policy by the city council may
be accomplished through passage of a drafted ordinance which has been carefully
studied by each member of the council. An "ordinance" drafted after a vote is
not valid to effect policy. The following procedure shall apply in enactment of
ordinances:
      1.   Proposed ordinance shall be drafted and placed on the agenda of a
regular meeting for first reading by title only;
      2.   Subsequent to a majority vote on first reading, the proposed
ordinance shall be enrolled on the agenda of the next regular meeting of the
council;
      3.   Consideration of a proposed ordinance at a second regular meeting
will include placement on second reading, read by title only and passage by
vote of a majority of the council, which will be considered final passage;
      4.   Following passage on second reading, and emergency clause, if a part
of the ordinance is for immediate effect, must be passed separately by a three-
fourths (3/4) majority of the council;
      5.   An ordinance enacted with an emergency clause will take full effect
and force from and after its date of passage;
      6.   An ordinance enacted without an emergency clause will be in effect
thirty (30) days following its publication in a local newspaper as required by
state statutes;
      7.   At all times during the process of enactment of an ordinance from
first draft to final passage, the ordinance will be available for public review
in the office of the city clerk;
      8.   Such ordinances as will effect changes or adjustment to fees or
rates charged will be on view in the city clerk's office for seven (7) days
prior to placement on first reading;
      9.   Ordinances replacing existing ordinances in effecting new procedure
will contain a repealing clause. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 6-4)
   D.   Roll Call Vote:
      1.   All actions of the city council will be effected by roll call vote
allowing public voice of such votes. The order of vote by individual members of
the council shall be rotated among the members in order to preclude one
individual's first vote on every issue.
      2.   Matters requiring more than a simple majority for passage shall
follow requirement of state statutes as apply. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 1 § 6-5)
CHAPTER 9
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Number And Classes
1-9-2: Bonds
1-9-3: Oath
1-9-4: Compensation
1-9-5: Social Security
1-9-1: NUMBER AND CLASSES:
The city council, by motion, resolution or ordinance, may regulate the number
and classes of officers and positions of employment in the various departments,
offices, and agencies of the city government. Appointments and promotions shall
be made solely on the basis of merit and fitness; and removals, demotions,
suspensions and layoffs shall be made solely for the good of the service. The
council, by ordinance, may establish a merit system and provide for its
organization and functioning and provide for regulation of personnel matters.
(1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-8)
1-9-2: BONDS:
   A.   Bonds Required: Before entering into their official duties, the
following officers and personnel of the city shall provide bonds for the
faithful performance of their official duties in an amount no less than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00):
      1.   City clerk and deputy clerks.
      2.   City treasurer.
      3.   Mayor. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-9; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Other Officers And Employees: For other officers and employees in such
positions as to have access, on a continuing basis, to any city funds, the city
shall pay the premium on such bonds. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-9)
1-9-3: OATH:
All officers, elective and appointive, including salaried employees of the city
shall, within five (5) days of their election or appointment and before
entering upon the duties of the respective offices, take and subscribe to the
following oath or affirmation:
I,               , solemnly swear, (or affirm), that I will support, obey and
defend the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State
of Oklahoma, and will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
            ; that I have not paid or contributed, either directly or
indirectly, any money or other valuable thing to procure my nomination,
election or appointment, except necessary and proper expense expressly
authorized by law; that I have not knowingly received directly or indirectly,
any money or other valuable thing for the performance or nonperformance of any
act or duty pertaining to the office of             , other than compensation
allowed by law.
(1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-10)
1-9-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   The compensation of officers and employees may be determined by motion
or resolution adopted by the city council and may be changed at any time in the
same manner.
   B.   In no case shall the salary or emoluments of any officer elected or
appointed for a definite term be changed after his election or appointment or
during his term of office unless by operation of an ordinance passed prior to
such election or appointment. This section shall not apply to officers chosen
for indefinite terms nor to employees.
   C.   Elected Officials: Effective at the beginning of the term of office
succeeding the present term of office of the mayor, city clerk, city treasurer,
and chief of police, compensation for those positions with the City shall be as
follows:
      1.   Mayor: Forty-nine thousand five hundred dollars ($49,500.00)
annually;
      2.   City Clerk: Forty-four thousand five hundred dollars ($44,500,00)
annually;
      3.   City Treasurer: Forty-four thousand five hundred dollars
($44,500.00) annually;
      4.   Chief of Police: Forty-eight thousand five hundred dollars
($48,500.00) annually. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-11; amd. Ord. 365, 12-9-
2022)
1-9-5: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   Declaration Of Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy and
purpose of the city to extend, at the earliest date, to the eligible employees
and officials of the city, the benefits of the system of federal old age and
survivors insurance as authorized by the federal social security act and all
amendments thereto, and 51 Oklahoma Statutes section 121 et seq. In pursuance
of this policy, the officers and employees of the city shall take such action
as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (1985
Code ch. 1 part 2 § 4-1)
   B.   Execution Of Agreement With State Agency: The mayor is authorized and
directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments with the state
department of human services to accomplish the provision of subsection A of
this section. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 4-2)
   C.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purposes provided in subsection A of this section are hereby
authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by
applicable state and federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the
state or federal agency designated by the laws and regulations. (1985 Code ch.
1 part 2 § 4-3)
   D.   Contributions: Employer contribution shall be paid from amounts
appropriated for these purposes from available funds to the designated state or
federal agency in accordance with applicable state or federal laws or
regulations. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 4-4)
   E.   Records And Reports: The city shall keep such records and submit such
reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 4-5)
CHAPTER 10
SPECIFIC OFFICIALS, AGENCIES AND DEPARTMENTS
SECTION:
1-10-1: City Clerk, City Treasurer And Finance Officer
1-10-2: Department Of Law; City Attorney
1-10-3: Street Department; Superintendent
1-10-4: Department Of Health; Health Officers
1-10-5: Designation Of Hearing Officer To Carry Out The Duties Of The Governing
Body With Respect To Hearings Held On High Weeds, Grass, Trash And Dilapidated
Structures
 
1-10-1: CITY CLERK, CITY TREASURER AND FINANCE OFFICER:
   A.   City Clerk:
      1.   The city clerk shall be an elective officer of the city, pursuant to
section
1-7-1 of this title. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   The city clerk shall collect or receive revenue and other money for
the city, and shall deposit the same daily with the city treasurer or for the
city treasurer in an account or accounts maintained by the city treasurer in a
depository or depositories, as approved by the city council. The city clerk
shall maintain a general accounting system for the city government. She shall
have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by applicable
law or by ordinance. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 2-1)
   B.   City Treasurer:
      1.   The city treasurer shall be an elective officer of the city,
pursuant to section
1-7-1 of this title. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 2-2; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   The city treasurer shall deposit daily all funds coming into his/her
hands in such depositories as the council, either of itself or by appointed
committee, may designate; and shall disburse such funds in the manner provided
by applicable law or ordinance. She shall have such other powers, duties and
functions as may be prescribed by applicable law or by ordinance. (1985 Code
ch. 1 part 2 § 2-2)
   C.   City Finance Officer:
      1.   There shall be a city finance officer appointed by the mayor, with
the approval of the city council, for an indefinite term, and removable by the
mayor. The city finance officer shall be an officer of the city. (1985 Code ch.
1 part 2 § 2-3; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   The offices of city clerk and city finance officer of the city may
be held by the same person, as appointed and combined by the mayor by
applicable state law. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 2-3)
   D.   Deputy City Clerk:
      1.   The office of deputy city clerk is hereby created to be appointed by
the city clerk as approved by the mayor.
      2.   The duties of the deputy city clerk shall be those of the city clerk
when so designated by the city clerk and the mayor.
      3.   The bond of the deputy city clerk shall be in the same amount as
that bond required of the city clerk. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 2-4)
   E.   Pay Period: The pay period for the city clerk and the city treasurer
shall be twice per month ending on the fifteenth and the last day of each
month. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 2-5; amd. 2016 Code)
   F.   Administrative Positions:
      1.   There is hereby created a position of finance officer for the
performance of such duties relating to the maintenance of the books and records
and office operation of the city as the mayor shall prescribe. Said position
shall be filled by the person serving as the city clerk or as otherwise
provided by the mayor. Said person shall be an employee of the city and shall
serve at the pleasure of the mayor.
      2.   The person appointed as city treasurer may be authorized to occupy
another or other positions of employment within the administrative departments
or agencies of the city, as prescribed by the mayor. Compensation and benefits
shall be in conformance with annual appropriations accruing to such position as
approved by the appropriate governing body in fiscal year budget approval.
(1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 2-6)
1-10-2: DEPARTMENT OF LAW; CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Department Created: There shall be a department of law, the head which
shall be the city attorney appointed by the city council for a one year term
and removable by the council. The city attorney shall be an officer of the
city, and shall have supervision and control of the department of law.
   B.   City Attorney: The city attorney shall be the chief legal adviser of
the council, all officers, departments and agencies of the city government in
matters relating to their official powers and duties. He shall represent the
city in proceedings in the courts. He shall perform all services incident to
his position which may be required by law or ordinance. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2
§ 3-1)
1-10-3: STREET DEPARTMENT; SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Department Created; Superintendent Appointment: There shall be a street
department, the head of which shall be the street superintendent appointed by
the mayor for an indefinite term, and removable by the mayor. The mayor shall
be ex officio street superintendent, unless he appoints another to serve in
this capacity. The street superintendent shall be an officer of the city, and
shall have supervision and control of the street department. (1985 Code ch. 1
part 2 § 3-2)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the street department, insofar as the
city government performs these functions with its own personnel, to construct,
improve, maintain and clean streets, including alleys and other public ways,
bridges, and sidewalks; to erect and maintain street name signs; and to
supervise the use of streets by privately owned utilities. (1985 Code ch. 1
part 2 § 3-3)
1-10-4: DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH; HEALTH OFFICERS:
   A.   Department Created; Health Officer Appointment: There shall be a
department of health, the head of which shall be the health officer appointed
by the mayor for an indefinite term, and removable by the mayor. Any mention in
the ordinances of the city of the "superintendent of health" or "superintendent
of public health" shall be deemed to refer to the health officer unless
otherwise indicated by the context in which such works may be found. He shall
be an officer of the city, and shall have supervision and control of the
department of health. The mayor or his representatives may, in the absence of
an appointed individual, perform the duties and functions of the city health
officer. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Duties: The department of health shall perform such duties and have
such powers as may be prescribed by ordinance, law and the rules and
regulations of the state department of health. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-4)
1-10-5: DESIGNATION OF HEARING OFFICER TO CARRY OUT THE DUTIES OF THE GOVERNING
BODY WITH RESPECT TO HEARINGS HELD ON HIGH WEEDS, GRASS, TRASH AND DILAPIDATED
STRUCTURES:
   A.   Creation Of Office: There is hereby created an office and position
within the government of the City of Jay, Delaware County, State of Oklahoma,
the position of “Hearing Officer Regarding Matters Of High Weeds, Grass, Trash
and Dilapidated Structures” pursuant to OKLA. STAT. Tit. 11 §§ 22-111 & 22-112
as those sections of state law appear on the date of passage of this ordinance
and as same may be hereafter amended by the legislature for the state of
Oklahoma.
   B.   Appointment Of Hearing Officer: The Mayor, with consent and
confirmation of the City Council, shall appoint by Resolution the person to
serve as “Hearing Officer Regarding Matters of High Weeds, Grass, Trash and
Dilapidated Structures” for the City of Jay.
   C.   Term Of Office: The person appointed to serve as “Hearing Officer
Regarding Matters Of High Weeds, Grass, Trash and Dilapidated Structures” for
the City of Jay, shall serve for an indefinite term of office, in such office
at the pleasure of the Mayor and Council or until he/she resigns or is
otherwise replaced by the appointment of a successor to serve.
   D.   Duties Of The Office: It shall be the duty of the Hearing officer so
appointed to fulfill the duties of the governing body in matters of High Weeds,
Grass, Trash and Dilapidated Structures as set forth in OKLA. STAT. Tit. 11 §§
22-111 & 22-112 as those sections of state law appear on the date of passage of
this ordinance and as same may be hereafter amended by the legislature for the
state of Oklahoma.
ARTICLE A. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-10A-1: Department Created; Chief Of Police
1-10A-2: Duties
1-10A-3: Reserve Police Unit
1-10A-4: Unclaimed Property
1-10A-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF OF POLICE:
There shall be a police department, the head of which shall be the chief of
police who shall be an elective officer of the city, pursuant to section
1-7-1 of this title. The chief of police shall have supervision and control of
the police department. All police officers shall be officers of the city. (1985
Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-5; amd. 2016 Code)
1-10A-2: DUTIES:
It is the duty of the police department to apprehend and arrest on view or on
warrant and bring to justice violators of the ordinances of the city; to
suppress riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve warrants, writs,
executions and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. The police department
shall have charge of and operate the city animal control program and such other
duties as prescribed by the mayor or the city council. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2
§ 3-5)
1-10A-3: RESERVE POLICE UNIT:
The chief of police may establish a reserve police unit to be composed of no
more than seven (7) volunteer members for utilization in crowd and traffic
control functions and, following full certification, the enforcement of all
city, state and federal laws. Appointees shall be on probationary status
pending completion of certification but in no case extending beyond the first
annual anniversary of appointment. Workers' compensation will be provided by
the city. Personal compensation shall not be paid. (Ord. 2007-3, 2-5-2007)
1-10A-4: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   Complete Record Required: All personal property which comes into the
possession of any police officer, which has been found or stolen or taken off
the person or out of the possession of any prisoner or person suspected of, or
charged with, being a criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person
laying claim thereto, shall be, by the officer securing possession thereof,
delivered into the charge of the chief of police. The chief shall, in a
permanent record book kept for that purpose, make a record sufficient to
identify the property, with the date and circumstances of the receipt thereof,
the name of the person from whom it was taken and the place where it was found;
and the record shall also disclose the subsequent disposal thereof, giving the
date of sale, name and address of the purchaser, and the amount for which it
was sold. (1985 Code ch. 17 § 1-1)
   B.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Personal Property Or Money Or Legal Tender:
      1.   The chief of police is authorized to dispose of personal property or
money or legal tender as provided in this section which has come into the
possession of the chief of police in any manner if:
         a.   The owner of the personal property or money or legal tender is
unknown or has not claimed the property;
         b.   The property or money or legal tender has been in the custody of
the chief of police for at least ninety (90) days; and
         c.   The property or money or legal tender or any part thereof is no
longer needed to be held as evidence or for any other purpose in connection
with any litigation.
      2.   The chief of police shall file an application in the district court
requesting the authority of the court to conduct a sale of the personal
property which has a fair market value of more than its face value. The chief
of police shall attach to the application a list describing the property
including any identifying numbers and marks, the date the property came into
the possession of the chief of police, and the name of the owner and the person
in last possession, if different, and the address of the person, if known. The
court shall set the application for hearing not less than ten (10) days nor
more than twenty (20) days after filing of the application.
      3.   In any instance where the property has an actual or apparent value
of more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), at least ten (10) days prior
to the date of the hearing, written notice of the hearing shall be sent by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to each owner at the address as listed in
the application. If the owner of any property with an actual or apparent value
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) is unable to be served written notice
by first class mail, notice shall be provided by one publication in a newspaper
of general circulation in the county. The notice shall contain a brief
description of the property of the owner and the place and date of the hearing.
The notice shall be posted at the assigned place for the posting of municipal
notices, and at two (2) other public places in the city.
      4.   a. If no owner appears and establishes ownership to the property at
the hearing, the court shall enter an order authorizing the chief of police to
dispose of the property as follows:
            (1)   Donate the property having value of less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) to a not for profit corporation as defined in 18 Oklahoma
Statutes for use by needy families;
            (2)   Sell the personal property for cash to the highest bidder,
after at least five (5) days' notice of the sale has been published;
            (3)   Transfer the property to a third party agent under contract
with the city council for sale by internet or other electronic means,
regardless of whether the sale structure or distribution site is within the
state of Oklahoma; or
            (4)   By any other means as determined appropriate by the court,
including, but not limited to, destruction.
         b.   Regardless of the means of disposition, the chief of police shall
make a return of the donation or sale and the order of the court confirming the
donation or sale shall vest title to the property in the recipient or
purchaser. After payment of court costs and other expenses, the remainder of
money received from the sale of the personal property shall be deposited in the
municipal general fund.
      5.   All money or legal tender which has come into the possession of the
chief of police pursuant to the circumstances provided for in subsection B1 of
this section shall be transferred by the chief of police to the city clerk for
deposit in the municipal general fund. Prior to any transfer, the chief of
police shall file an application in the district court requesting the court to
enter an order authorizing the chief of police to transfer the money for
deposit in the municipal general fund. The application shall describe the money
or legal tender, the date the same came into the possession of the chief of
police, and the name of the owner and the address of the owner, if known. Upon
filing the application which may be joined with an application as described in
subsection B2 of this section, a hearing shall be set not less than ten (10)
days nor more than twenty (20) days from the filing of the application. Notice
of the hearing shall be given as provided for in subsection B3 of this section.
The notice shall state that upon failure of anyone to appear to prove ownership
to the money or legal tender, the court shall order the same to be deposited in
the municipal general fund. The notice may be combined with a notice to sell
personal property as provided for in subsection B2 of this section. If no one
appears to claim and prove ownership to the money or legal tender at the
hearing, the court shall order the same to be transferred to the municipal
general fund as provided in this subsection. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE B. FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-10B-1: Department Created; Chief; Other Personnel
1-10B-2: New Members
1-10B-3: Bylaws
1-10B-4: Duties Of Chief
1-10B-5: Duties Of Department; Fire Runs Outside City Limits
1-10B-6: Traffic Right Of Way Of Members
1-10B-7: Adopt And Change Regulations
1-10B-8: Firefighters Pension And Retirement System
1-10B-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF; OTHER PERSONNEL:
   A.   Department Created; Chief; Assistants: There shall be a fire
department, the head of which shall be the chief of the fire department. The
chief shall be appointed for an indefinite term by the mayor, with the consent
of the city council, and may be removed by the mayor at any time. There shall
be such assistant chiefs, firefighters, and other personnel as the city council
may approve.
   B.   Volunteer Department; Number Of Firefighters:
      1.   Number: The fire department of the city is a volunteer fire
department which has in its employ not more than two (2) full time salaried
firefighters (if any), and it shall be comprised of not less than twelve (12)
nor more than twenty five (25) volunteer firefighters. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2
§ 3-6; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Volunteer Firefighter Defined: For the purpose of this article, a
volunteer firefighter is one who is enrolled as a member of the fire department
and who serves in such capacity without receiving a regular salary.
   C.   Fire Chief:
      1.   The chief shall be at the head of the department, subject to the
laws of the state, ordinances of the city and the rules and regulations herein
adopted.
      2.   The chief shall be held responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him.
      3.   The chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cisterns, and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year.
      4.   The chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection, and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members.
      5.   The chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties.
      6.   The chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the department.
      7.   The chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify
proper authorities, and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future
use in the case. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-6)
      8.   The chief shall file the appropriate activity report forms with the
office of the state fire marshal in Oklahoma City on an annual basis. The
activity report forms shall be designed by the state fire marshal and shall
include, but not be limited to, the amount of property and vehicle fire loss,
types of fires, inspections and investigations. The report shall include
notification of all fire related civilian deaths and injuries in the respective
jurisdiction and of firefighter deaths in the line of duty and of firefighter
injuries in the line of duty requiring the services of a hospital or physician
or both. (2016 Code)
   D.   Assistant Chief: In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on
duty shall command the department and be held responsible therefor in all
respects with the full powers and responsibilities of the chief.
   E.   Company Officers: The company officers shall be selected upon their
ability to meet the following requirements:
      1.   Their knowledge of firefighting. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-6)
      2.   Their leadership ability. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-6; amd. 2016
Code)
      3.   Their knowledge of firefighting equipment.
   F.   Secretary-Treasurer: One member elected by the fire department shall be
secretary-treasurer. His duties shall consist of the following: 1) calling the
roll at the opening of each meeting; 2) keeping the minutes of each meeting; 3)
collecting any money due the department by the members. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2
§ 3-6)
1-10B-2: NEW MEMBERS:
   A.   All new members shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment.
   B.   New volunteer members, upon completion of their probation period, must
be approved by the majority of the fire department. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 §
3-6)
1-10B-3: BYLAWS:
The bylaws of the department shall include:
   A.   A volunteer firefighter is required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   B.   He is required to be present at all regular meetings, call meetings,
and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   C.   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month. (1985
Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-6)
   D.   Any volunteer firefighter having two (2) unexcused absences in
succession or three (3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will
be expelled from the fire department rolls.
   E.   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an extended period of time will
be required to notify the chief.
   F.   Any volunteer member of the fire department shall be expelled from the
rolls for the following offenses: 1) conduct unbecoming a firefighter; 2) any
act of insubordination; 3) neglect of duty; 4) any violation of rules and
regulations governing the fire department; 5) conviction of felony.
   G.   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him will be expelled from the rolls. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-6; amd.
2016 Code)
1-10B-4: DUTIES OF CHIEF:
   A.   Supervise And Control: The chief of the fire department shall have
supervision and control of the fire department, subject to the supervision and
control of the mayor. The chief may assign duties to other members of the
department.
   B.   Investigation Of Arson: The chief is hereby required to assist the
proper authorities in suppressing the crime of arson by investigation or
causing to be investigated the cause, origin and circumstances of all fires.
   C.   Entry Of Buildings: The chief is hereby empowered to enter any and all
buildings and premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making
inspections and to serve written notice upon the owner or occupant to abate,
within a specified time, any and all fire hazards that may be found. Any person
so served with a notice to abate any fire hazard or hazards shall comply
therewith and promptly notify the chief.
   D.   Records And Reports: The chief shall see that complete records are kept
of all fires, inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other
information about the work of the department, and shall make such reports as
the mayor may require.
   E.   Charge At Fires: The chief of the fire department or the person acting
in his absence shall have full power, control and command over all persons
whomsoever present at fires; and he shall direct the use of all fire apparatus
and equipment, and command all firefighters in the discharge of their duties.
He shall take such measures as may be necessary in the preservation and
protection of property and the extinguishing of fires. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2
§ 3-6)
1-10B-5: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT; FIRE RUNS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   General Duties: It shall be the duty of the fire department, among
others, to extinguish fires; to rescue persons endangered by fire; to
resuscitate and to administer first aid to persons injured in or about burning
structures or elsewhere in case of an emergency; to promote fire prevention;
and unless otherwise provided, to enforce all ordinances relating to fires,
fire prevention and safety of persons from fire in theaters, stores, and other
public buildings.
   B.   Information To Mayor: The chief shall keep the mayor informed regarding
the fire department and its needs, and shall make such reports as the mayor may
require. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-6)
   C.   Fire Runs Outside City Limits: The fire department in and for the city
shall be and the same is hereby authorized to answer fire calls and make fire
runs beyond the corporate limits of the city as the fire chief shall deem
appropriate. (Ord. 205, 1-7-1991)
1-10B-6: TRAFFIC RIGHT OF WAY OF MEMBERS:
All motor equipment and all personal vehicles of department members shall have
the right of way over all other traffic when responding to an alarm. (1985 Code
ch. 1 part 2 § 3-6; amd. 2016 Code)
1-10B-7: ADOPT AND CHANGE REGULATIONS:
The city council, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change regulations
relating to the fire department, its organization and operation. The chief may
recommend such regulations and changes therein to the mayor at any time. (1985
Code ch. 1 part 2 § 3-6)
1-10B-8: FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   Board Of Trustees Created: There is hereby created a board of trustees
of the firefighters pension and retirement fund of the city, with membership,
organization, powers, duties and functions as prescribed by Oklahoma Statutes,
and any other sections of law. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 6-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Fund Operated In Accordance With Law: The firefighters pension and
retirement fund shall be operated in accordance with state law relating to the
fund, and pensions and other benefits shall be paid as provided by state law.
(1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 6-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Pension On Retirement: A monthly service pension as stipulated by the
Oklahoma firefighters pension and retirement system shall be paid any member of
the fire department who has served for a period of twenty (20) years or more as
a member of any rank or capacity in some fire department in the state of
Oklahoma; the last sixty (60) months of which shall have been continuous in the
fire department of Jay. Such pension shall cease during any period of time
thereafter that he may serve for compensation any municipal fire department in
this or any other. Said payment shall be not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) per month. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 6-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Pension During Temporary Disability: Whenever a firefighter shall
become physically or mentally disabled while in, or in consequence of, the
performance of his duty as firefighter in the fire department, the board of
trustees of the firefighters pension and retirement fund of Jay, may, upon his
written request, or without such request if it deems it for the good of the
department, retire such person from active service. While he is so retired, the
board of the firefighters pension and retirement fund shall order and direct
that he be paid the required monthly pension. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 6-4;
amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Temporary Disability: Whenever any member of the fire department of
Jay, on account of sickness or temporary disability caused or sustained while
in the discharge of his duty with the fire department, be confined to any
hospital or to his bed, and shall require professional nursing care or
attention, the board of trustees of the firefighters pension and retirement
fund of Jay shall authorize such expenses as may be provided in Oklahoma
Statutes. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 6-5; amd. 2016 Code)
   F.   Pension For Loss Of Life: Whenever any member of the fire department
shall lose his life while in performance of his duty, leaving a widow, or child
or children under the age of eighteen (18) years, pension shall be certified to
the said widow and children as provided by laws of the state of Oklahoma. (1985
Code ch. 1 part 2 § 6-6)
   G.   Roster Of Members; Accident Reports:
      1.   The city clerk shall keep a roster of the members of the city fire
department which shall show the date of enlistment of each member therein.
      2.   The fire chief shall report in writing within three (3) days after
the occurrence thereof, to the board of trustees of the firefighters pension
and retirement fund, all accidents suffered by firefighters in the line of duty
with the Jay fire department. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 6-7; amd. 2016 Code)
   H.   Claims, How Made: All claims as herein provided for shall be made in
accordance with procedure outlined by the state firefighters pension and
retirement system. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 6-8; amd. 2016 Code)
   I.   Reports: The city clerk, as required each year, shall file any report
required by the state firefighters pension and retirement system containing
information which may be required by Oklahoma Statutes. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2
§ 6-9; amd. 2016 Code)
   J.   Payments: Payments out of the firefighters pension and retirement fund
shall be made only upon proper authorization by the local board of trustees.
(1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 6-10; amd. 2016 Code)
   K.   Proof Of Service: The records of the city clerk and the fire department
shall be taken as proof of the term of years which a firefighter, applying for
a pension, has served as a member of the fire department. The fire chief will
attest to each claim. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 6-11)
ARTICLE C. EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE
SECTION:
1-10C-1: Department Established; Director; Responsibility
1-10C-2: Mission And Function; Manning Levels; Working Hours
1-10C-3: Sphere Of Operations; Zones Established
1-10C-4: Rates And Charges
1-10C-5: Vehicle Operation And Maintenance
1-10C-6: Records And Documentation
1-10C-7: Billing For Services
1-10C-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; DIRECTOR; RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Department Established: There is hereby established the Jay emergency
medical service (JEMS) as a full department of city government under the
direction of the JEMS director. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-1)
   B.   JEMS Director:
      1.   The JEMS director is appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the
city council, and responsible to the mayor. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-1; amd.
2016 Code)
      2.   The JEMS director shall be responsible for directing and controlling
the daily activities of the emergency medical service to provide a first class
ambulance operation at all times.
      3.   The JEMS director will serve at the pleasure of the mayor, and may
be removed, suspended or demoted at discretion of the mayor.
      4.   Compensation for the position of JEMS director shall be established
by the city council. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-1)
   C.   Appointments To Department: Appointments to the JEMS shall be as
authorized by the mayor, with the consent of the city council, subject to
manning levels established in this article. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-1; amd.
2016 Code)
   D.   Compensation And Benefits: Compensation and benefits afforded JEMS
personnel will be as outlined in personnel policies established in an
employee’s handbook, as approved and issued by the city council, and pursuant
to the classification and salary schedule therein. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-
1; amd. Ord. 384, 6-3-2024; Ord. 385, 6-3-2024)
1-10C-2: MISSION AND FUNCTION; MANNING LEVELS; WORKING HOURS:
It shall be the mission of the city, through its established emergency medical
service, to provide at minimum cost, a fully certified level I basic life
support system, as outlined in the "Oklahoma State Handbook Of EMS
Regulations". (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-2)
   A.   Basic Life Support System (Function): Basic life support EMS system
entails the provision by an emergency medical provider of basic emergency
medical services which include the use of sophisticated transport vehicles and
equipment and telemetry communications; is staffed by basic level certified
emergency medical technicians, who are capable of providing on site,
prehospital and interhospital mobile intensive care in conjunction with
specialized critical care units and emergency departments in appropriately
staffed healthcare facilities within the Jay area. It shall be the purpose of
the city to at all times maintain both equipment and personnel certification in
a configuration to conform to requirements of a basic life support system,
pursuant to provisions of the Oklahoma state EMS regulations and the emergency
response systems development act, as amended. Emergency response vehicles will
conform to CSA specifications. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Medical Direction And Control: Medical direction and control shall be
via standing orders from a physician or direct radio communication as can be
effected by agreement with area physicians.
   C.   Certification Of EMTs: As required by the handbook of EMT regulations,
the emergency medical teams assigned to respond to such emergencies as may be
reported to JEMS shall as a minimum be composed of qualified personnel. At
least one member of each team shall be certified EMT/basic.
   D.   Manning Levels: The JEMS shall be authorized four (4) full emergency
response teams consisting of one certified EMT/basic and one driver, a
certified first responder. The assigned EMT/basic will be responsible as shift
supervisor. The shift supervisor will be acting in the stead and for the
director, JEMS. As acting director, it will be his/her responsibility to
professionally represent the JEMS.
      1.   The position for EMT/basic on each team will be filled by a
certified EMT/basic as a minimum. The JEMS director will be considered as one
EMT/basic for this purpose.
      2.   The position of driver may be initially filled by a qualified
individual possessing a valid Oklahoma driver's license. Driver records search
must reveal no history of irresponsible driving patterns, alcohol or drug
related accidents or other incidents indicating negligent or immature
character.
      3.   Personnel appointed as driver will be expected to undergo training
and attain certification at the EMT/basic level and shall be considered
employed in probationary status until such certification is attained.
Individuals not successfully completing requirements for the basic
certification within one year of employment date shall be terminated. During
the interim, driver personnel will be required to become certified as first
responder as soon after employment as possible.
      4.   Advancement of personnel from driver to EMT/basic shall be scheduled
as the JEMS director deems appropriate. Training and certification costs for
the basic level shall be borne by the city. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-2)
      5.   Advancement to EMT-I and EMT-P levels of certification shall be at
the expense of the individual. The JEMS director will cooperate with personnel
desiring upgrade training by scheduling in such manner as will most effectively
aid in self-improvement efforts and yet assure proper coverage of the JEMS
mission. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Refresher Training:
      1.   All certified EMTs shall be expected to successfully complete
necessary refresher training as may be made mandatory by state regulations.
      2.   Local refresher training programs shall be conducted as directed by
the mayor. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-2)
1-10C-3: SPHERE OF OPERATIONS; ZONES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Zones Established: The JEMS shall respond to the emergent medical needs
of residents within the parameters of the zones outlined herein, with priority
toward the needs of the citizen residents of the corporate limits of the city.
      1.   Zone 1; City: That area encompassed by the corporate limits of the
city.
      2.   Zone 2; Three Mile Radius: That area lying in a direct line radius
of three (3) miles from point of origin at the ambulance garage within the
city. An imaginary circle, compass drawn with point of origin at the ambulance
garage and reflected on a base map maintained by the JEMS director will be the
official source for purposes of establishing charges based on zone area
involved.
      3.   Zone 3; Five Mile Radius: That area lying in a direct line radius of
five (5) miles from point of origin at the ambulance garage, with the
Northernmost boundary being on an imaginary line drawn between points
established at the Northwest corner of section 8, Township 23 North, Range 24
East on its East end, and Northeast corner of section 20, Township 23 North,
Range 23 East on its West end following the established territorial limits of
Grove EMS.
      4.   Zone 4; Ten Mile Radius: That area lying in a direct line radius of
ten (10) miles from a point of origin at the ambulance garage with the
Northernmost boundary being on an imaginary line drawn between points
established at the Northeast corner of section 9, Township 23 North, Range 25
East on its East end, and at the Northwest corner of section 2, Township 23
North, Range 22 East as its West end following the territorial limits of the
Grove EMS.
      5.   Zone 5; Outside Ten Mile Radius: All that area lying outside a ten
(10) mile radius from a point of departure at the ambulance garage, which area
is situated within boundaries created by: a) State line on the East, then South
to the South boundary of Township 22 North; b) Highway 33 on the South
encompassing an area bordered on the East Side by the Section Line Road between
sections 15 and 16, Township 20 North, Range 24 East running North to Cloud
Creek and following its course to a point on an imaginary line reflected by the
ten (10) mile radius circle from Jay and on the West by the county road running
North and Northwest from Leach to Kenwood and on to the Mays County line; and
c) on the West by the Mayes County and the Craig County lines, except to
include the town of Spavinaw; and on the North as delineated by the South
boundary of the Grove EMS where contiguous and the South shore of Grand Lake to
the Northeast.
   B.   Mutual Aid Agreements: Agreements with other area ambulance service
providers will be maintained to afford effective coverage of all areas
surrounding the sphere of operations established herein. Mutual aid will be
provided in instances wherein backup assistance is necessary. Agreements
necessary to effect mutual assistance will be renewed on an annual basis and
maintained in the office of the JEMS director. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-3)
1-10C-4: RATES AND CHARGES:
Rates and charges for emergency medical services rendered by the Jay Emergency
Medical Services (JEM) Department shall be those rates and charges as
periodically set by Resolution of the Mayor and City Council for the City and
set forth In “Appendix A - Schedule of Fees and Charges” of the City Code for
Jay, Oklahoma. (Ord. 284, 4-10-2014; amd. Ord. 369, 1-3-2023)
1-10C-5: VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Vehicle Utilized As Ambulance By JEMS: Ambulances utilized in the JEMS
will conform to CSA specification KKK-A-1822A, and will be maintained to assure
continued state of readiness to meet requirements for designation as a basic
life support unit. Each vehicle will be equipped with a complete ACS package of
equipment as adopted by the American College Of Surgeons, or its equivalent as
determined by the ODDH EMS commissioner. Extrication capability will be
provided through current contracts with local wrecker services.
   B.   Daily Care: The ambulance will be subjected to daily inspection of both
the chassis and the medical care unit to assure a state of readiness at all
times. The EMS director will formulate preventive maintenance checklists to
cover essential elements of these unit applications, copies of which will be
available for public inspection. Deficiencies will be corrected as soon as
possible contingent upon need and method of corrections.
   C.   Vehicle Operation:
      1.   As an investment of the citizens of the city, ambulances and their
allied equipment represent a precious lifesaving as well as monetary asset to
the community. Operation of ambulances shall conform to the dictates of good
judgment at all times but subject to the following limitations at any time
during operation: (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-5)
         a.   On nonemergency transfer runs, speed limits as posted by the
state; and in all cases, safe and prudent considering road condition; (1985
Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-5; amd. 2016 Code)
         b.   On emergency runs, in strict compliance with speed laws
promulgated by the state under "running red" situations; and
         c.   At any time during operation, defensive driving techniques will
be practiced to protect life and equipment.
      2.   Infractions of good driving practices may be cause for disciplinary
action to include discharge, dependent upon extent of culpability.
   D.   General Maintenance:
      1.   Warranty Period: All maintenance to ambulances while under new
vehicle warranty shall be performed by an authorized service outlet of the
nearest franchise dealer. Exceptions will be allowed only to those items of
service maintenance as will not cause an invalidation of such warranty.
      2.   Local Maintenance: General maintenance to vehicles not under
warranty shall be accomplished on a low estimate basis by local maintenance
providers. Efforts will be made by the EMS director to avoid advantage to any
one provider; however, low estimate and quality experience with the provider
will control. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-5)
1-10C-6: RECORDS AND DOCUMENTATION:
   A.   Patient Medical Care Provision Records: A complete record of each
patient shall be maintained under the direction and control of the EMS
director. Such records are of a confidential nature and access will be
restricted to the EMS director and such individual or individuals as designated
by the EMS director and such individual or individuals as designated by the EMS
director for purposes of records maintenance. All information contained in
patient records will be considered nondisclosure information and shall not be
revealed except to authorized physicians or by their authorization to
healthcare personnel. Patient records shall at all times be maintained under
proper security.
   B.   Financial Records: Records created by billing, collection and
purchasing processes as outlined in section
1-10C-7 of this article shall be under the direction of the city clerk/finance
officer. All such records as are necessary to effect accounting for revenues to
the EMS department shall be auditable records and established as an integral
part of the general government funds of the city, with proper safeguards as are
applicable to other revenue.
   C.   Vehicle And Equipment Maintenance Records: Such records as are
necessary to effect daily and historical documentation of vehicle and equipment
maintenance shall be maintained under direction of the EMS director. Daily
inspection checklist, preventive maintenance actions and major expense outlay
instances will be made a matter of record, and a vehicle historical record kept
on each vehicle. Other maintenance records considered necessary for adequate
documentation for purposes of control, safety or accountability shall be as
deemed necessary by the mayor.
   D.   Records Retention: All records created incident to the operation of Jay
emergency medical service are public property. The destruction of such records
other than under provision of cited statute is unauthorized and will subject
the violator to penalties therein outlined. The EMS director will be
responsible to assure proper safeguards to prevent incidents of unauthorized
destruction. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 7-6)
1-10C-7: BILLING FOR SERVICES:
The preparation of statements for ambulance runs shall be under the procedure
as outlined by the city clerk/finance officer as approved by the mayor. The EMS
director shall act under the general direction of the city clerk/finance
officer in assuring proper billing in accordance with the applicable rates
outlined in section
1-10C-4 of this article. (Ord. 212, 11-2-1992)
ARTICLE D. LIBRARY SERVICE AND DISTRICT
SECTION:
1-10D-1: Library Service Provided
1-10D-2: Governing Board Members
1-10D-3: City Located Within Library District
1-10D-4: Cities And Counties Joined To Create Library District
1-10D-5: Branch Library Located In City
1-10D-1: LIBRARY SERVICE PROVIDED:
It is the desire of the governing bodies of the cities and counties,
hereinafter named, to provide good library service to the residents of
municipalities concerned. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 5-1)
1-10D-2: GOVERNING BOARD MEMBERS:
The governing board of this library district shall consist of one member to be
appointed by the governing body of each city of two thousand (2,000) or more
population, and one member appointed by the board of county commissioners of
each county. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 5-2)
1-10D-3: CITY LOCATED WITHIN LIBRARY DISTRICT:
The city of Jay, Delaware County, Oklahoma, is located within the district
served by a multicounty library, established and created under the laws of the
state of Oklahoma in accordance with the Oklahoma library code. (1985 Code ch.
1 part 2 § 5-3)
1-10D-4: CITIES AND COUNTIES JOINED TO CREATE LIBRARY DISTRICT:
The city of Jay, Delaware County, Oklahoma, jointly with other cities and
counties concerned having created a library district to include any combination
of two (2) or more in the following counties: Adair, Cherokee, Delaware,
McIntosh, Mayes, Muskogee, Okmulgee, Rogers, Sequoyah, and Wagoner; agrees to
appoint one person to represent the city of Jay on the multicounty library
governing board. (1985 Code ch. 1 part 2 § 5-4)
1-10D-5: BRANCH LIBRARY LOCATED IN CITY:
A branch library of the multicounty library system has been established in the
city of Jay. Subject to the provisions of the Oklahoma library code, the city
of Jay will provide suitable library quarters with necessary utility services
with the understanding that the multicounty library will provide books,
personnel, films, equipment, and other library materials and services, except
that the city of Jay may, from time to time at its option, appropriate funds
for the operation and/or improvement of said public library. (1985 Code ch. 1
part 2 § 5-5)
CHAPTER 11
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Court Created
1-11-2: Definitions
1-11-3: Jurisdiction
1-11-4: Judge Of The Court
1-11-5: No Change Of Venue; Disqualification Of Judge
1-11-6: Police Chief; Principal Officer Of The Court
1-11-7: Clerk Of The Court
1-11-8: City Attorney; Prosecuting Officer
1-11-9: Obedience To Orders By Judge; Contempt
1-11-10: Style Of Prosecutions
1-11-11: Traffic Violations; Procedure
1-11-12: Traffic Violations Bureau
1-11-13: Issuance Of Summons
1-11-14: Warrant Of Arrest
1-11-15: Procedure For Bail Or Bond
1-11-16: Arraignment And Pleadings By Defendant
1-11-17: Trials And Judgments
1-11-18: Witness Fees
1-11-19: Imprisonment; Work By Prisoners
1-11-20: Translator Services To Defendants
1-11-1: COURT CREATED:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal court
of the city as put into operation by resolution duly passed and filed in
accordance with law, as authorized by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-101 and
27-102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of other ordinances of the city, the provisions of this chapter
shall control. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words shall mean:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police department of the
city of Jay, Oklahoma.
CLERK: The clerk of this city, including any deputy or member of the office
staff of the clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
COURT: The municipal court of the city of Jay, Oklahoma.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council, or the body exercising the general
legislative power of the city of Jay, Oklahoma.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, aforesaid, including any acting judge
or alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of the state, and
this chapter.
MUNICIPALITY OR THIS MUNICIPALITY: The city of Jay.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma, wherein the government of this municipality is situated. (1985 Code
ch. 12 § 1-2)
1-11-3: JURISDICTION:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the city is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-3)
1-11-4: JUDGE OF THE COURT:
   A.   Appointment Of Judges: Judges and alternate judges shall be appointed
by the mayor, as approved by the city council. The city council may confirm the
proposed appointment by a majority of a quorum present and acting. Failure of
decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a
later regularly scheduled meeting of the city council. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-8)
   B.   Qualifications: There shall be one judge of the court. A judge need not
be a licensed attorney at law; but, if not, he must be a resident of the
municipality of the age of twenty five (25) years, possessed of good moral
character. A judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law
in other courts, but he shall not accept employment inconsistent with his
duties as judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected
with cases within the jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or which might
become the subject of proceedings therein. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-4)
   C.   Term Of Office: The official term shall be two (2) years, expiring on
June 30 every other year. Each judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause,
shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified; provided, that the
judge of the municipal court existing in the municipality on the effective date
hereof shall act as judge of the court herein provided for until a judge is
appointed and qualified under the terms of this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-
5; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Alternate Judge: There shall be appointed, for each judge of the court,
an alternate judge. An alternate judge need not be a licensed attorney at law;
but, if not, he must be a resident of the municipality of at least the age of
twenty five (25) years, possessed of good moral character. His appointment
shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the judge. He shall
sit as acting judge of the court in any case if the judge is: 1) absent from
the court; 2) unable to act as judge; 3) disqualified from acting as judge in
the case. An alternate judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the
practice of law in other courts, but he shall not accept employment
inconsistent with his duties as judge, or arising out of facts which give rise
to or are connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the court, pending
therein or which might become the subject of proceedings therein. (1985 Code
ch. 12 § 1-6)
   E.   Acting Judge: If, at any time, there is no judge or alternate judge,
duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as judge, the mayor, with
confirmation of the city council, shall appoint some person, possessing the
qualifications required by this chapter for the judge, who shall preside, as
acting judge, over the court in the disposition of pending matters until such
time as a judge or alternate judge shall be available. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-7)
   F.   Compensation:
      1.   A judge, other than an alternate judge or an acting judge, shall
receive a salary of no more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) monthly,
paid in the same manner as the salaries of other officials of the municipality.
      2.   An alternate judge or an acting judge shall be paid the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each day devoted to the performance of his
duties, except that for any month, the total payments so calculated shall not
exceed the salary of the judge in whose stead he sits. An alternate or acting
judge who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount specified in this
chapter as the salary in whose stead he sits. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-9; amd.
2016 Code)
   G.   Removal:
      1.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office, by the city council,
for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of this state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by: a) the mayor; or b) twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of
the municipality; in the latter events, verification may be executed by one or
more of the petitioners.
      2.   The city council shall set a date for hearing the matter, and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the judge shall be entitled:
         a.   To representation by counsel;
         b.   To present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against
him; and
         c.   To have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      3.   So far as they can be made applicable, the provisions of the
Oklahoma administrative procedure act governing individual proceeding, 75
Oklahoma Statutes sections 309 to 317 and any amendments or additions thereto
in effect at the time of the hearing, shall govern removal proceedings
hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by
a majority of all members of the city council, in favor of such removal. (1985
Code ch. 12 § 1-10)
   H.   Vacancy:
      1.   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         a.   Dies; or
         b.   Resigns; or
         c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         d.   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
      2.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term upon the same
procedure as an original appointment is made. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-11)
   I.   Authority To Prescribe Rules: The judge shall prescribe rules,
consistent with the laws of the state and with the ordinances of the
municipality, for the proper conduct of the business of the court. (1985 Code
ch. 12 § 1-17)
1-11-5: NO CHANGE OF VENUE; DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE:
In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed; but the
judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he
may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an alternate or acting judge appointed as provided in this
chapter. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-12)
1-11-6: POLICE CHIEF; PRINCIPAL OFFICER OF THE COURT:
All writs or process of the court shall be directed to the chief of the police
department of the municipality who shall appoint a member of the police
department who shall be the principal officer of the court for the purposes of
that particular writ or process. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-13)
1-11-7: CLERK OF THE COURT:
   A.   Designation; Duties: The city clerk, or a deputy designated by the city
clerk, shall be clerk of the court. The clerk of the court shall:
      1.   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court, and in
preparing writs, processes and other papers.
      2.   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the court.
      3.   Enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the
court.
      4.   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the judge shall direct.
      5.   Receive and receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of
money payable to the court.
      6.   Pay to the city treasurer all money so received by her on the day of
receipt. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-14)
   B.   Bond: The clerk of the court shall give bond in the same manner and
amount given by the city clerk for the performance of official duties as the
clerk of the incorporated city of Jay. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-16)
1-11-8: CITY ATTORNEY; PROSECUTING OFFICER:
The city attorney or his duly designated assistant shall be the prosecuting
officer of the court. He shall prosecute all alleged violations of this code
and the ordinances of the city. He shall be authorized, in his discretion, to
prosecute and resist appeals, proceedings in error and review from this court
to any other courts of the state, and to represent this municipality in all
proceedings arising out of matters in this court. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-15)
1-11-9: OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS BY JUDGE; CONTEMPT:
Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the judge or by the court
may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt committed
as to him while holding court, or committed against process issued by him, in
the same manner and to the same extent as the district courts of this state.
(1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-18)
1-11-10: STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS:
All prosecutions for violation of ordinances of this municipality shall by
styled: "The City Of Jay v. (naming the defendant or defendants)". Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a
written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making the complaint,
and setting forth concisely the offense charged, and approved for filing by the
city attorney. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-19)
1-11-11: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Citation Issuance:
      1.   If a police officer observes facts which he believes constitute a
violation of the traffic ordinances of the city, committed by a resident
thereof, in lieu of arresting such person, he may take his name, address,
operator's license number, the registered license number of the motor vehicle
involved and any other pertinent and necessary information, and may issue to
him, in writing in form prescribed by the mayor, a traffic citation embracing
the above information and further stating the traffic violation alleged to have
occurred, and notifying him to answer to the charge against him in the court at
a time specified in the citation.
      2.   The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator, endorsed on the citation, to answer as specified, shall release said
person from custody.
      3.   If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer as
prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   B.   Release, Custody, Bail: If the alleged traffic violation is committed
by a nonresident of the city, the police officer shall take him into custody
under arrest. The arrested person either: 1) shall be taken immediately before
the judge for further proceedings according to law; or 2) shall have bail fixed
for his release in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Upon
providing the bail as fixed, and upon giving his written promise to appear upon
a day certain, as provided in subsection A of this section, he shall be
released from custody.
   C.   Parking Violations: If the alleged offense be a violation of an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator be not present,
the police officer shall place in the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in subsection A of this section, with such variation as the
circumstances require. The operator of the vehicle shall be under the same
obligation to respond to the citation as if it had been issued to him
personally under subsection A of this section.
   D.   Compliance With Traffic Regulatory Statutes: All traffic regulatory
statutes of the state of Oklahoma relating to motor vehicles, the posting of
bail for traffic violation charges, providing opportunity of immediate guilty
plea and immediate payment of fine and costs are hereby made a part of this
chapter in the same manner and to the same extent as if such statutes were
rewritten in detail. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-20)
1-11-12: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU:
   A.   The judge shall establish, by prescribing rules, consistent with the
laws of the state and with the ordinances of the city, a traffic violations
bureau.
   B.   The traffic violations bureau shall be staffed by the appointed court
clerk.
   C.   The traffic violations bureau shall accept fines which may be paid in
lieu of a court appearance, for such traffic offenses as may be designated by
the judge under the court's rules.
   D.   All such fines shall be the minimum penalty prescribed for such
violation, and no costs shall be assessed.
   E.   In no event shall payment of a fine without court appearance be
accepted for a second or subsequent offense of the same violation or driving
under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs, actual physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs, leaving
the scene of an accident, driving while license to operate a motor vehicle is
suspended or revoked, reckless driving, careless driving, or any charge made
because of a motor vehicle accident in which personal injury or death occurred.
   F.   Payment of any fine to the traffic violations bureau shall be deemed a
final determination of the cause against the defendant. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-
21)
1-11-13: ISSUANCE OF SUMMONS:
   A.   Filing Of Complaint: Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation
of an ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest,
or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been
arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the
person charged, specifying his address or place of residence, if known, stating
the offense with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer the charge
in the court (on a day certain, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the
summons is served upon him), containing a provision for the official return of
the summons, and including such other pertinent information as may be
necessary.
   B.   Serving Summons: The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to
the defendant personally. If he fails to appear and to answer the summons
within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest, as
provided by this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-22)
1-11-14: WARRANT OF ARREST:
   A.   Form Of Warrant: Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the
city, upon the filing of a complaint approved by endorsement by the city
attorney or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in such
form as prescribed by the court.
   B.   Execution Of Warrant: It shall be the duty of the aforesaid police
chief, principal officer of the court, personally or through a duly constituted
member of the police force of the city, or through any other persons lawfully
authorized so to act, to execute said warrant as promptly as possible. (1985
Code ch. 12 § 1-23; amd. 2016 Code)
1-11-15: PROCEDURE FOR BAIL OR BOND:
   A.   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation
or summons, or at any other time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance
in an amount and upon conditions fixed by the judge, who shall prescribe
appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail.
   B.   In case of arrests made at night or under other conditions of emergency
or when the judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the chief of
police, or his designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond, of
not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than the maximum monetary
penalty provided by ordinance for such offense charged.
   C.   All persons confined to jail prior to trial shall be released under
bond or recognizance. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-24; amd. 2016 Code)
1-11-16: ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT:
   A.   Arraignment: Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant
shall be arraigned. The judge, or the city attorney, shall read the complaint
to the defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the right to
counsel and of the consequences of conviction and ask him whether he pleads
guilty or not guilty.
   B.   Guilty Plea: If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to
judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition.
   C.   Plea Of Not Guilty: If the plea is not guilty and the case is not for
jury trial, the court may proceed to try the case or may set it for hearing at
a later date. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-25)
1-11-17: TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Postponement: Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-26;
amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Presence At Trial: The defendant must be present in person at the
trial. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-27)
   C.   Trials Of Misdemeanors: In all trials, as to matters not covered in
this chapter, or by the statutes relating to municipal courts, or by rules duly
promulgated by the supreme court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that
they can be made effective. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-28; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Judgment Of Court: If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after
trial, the court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the
limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence
accordingly. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-29)
   E.   Judgment Rendered: At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered
immediately by the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket. (1985
Code ch. 12 § 1-32)
   F.   Acquittal: If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once. (1985 Code
ch. 12 § 1-33)
   G.   Suspension Of Sentence: After conviction and sentence, the judge may
suspend sentence, in accordance with the provisions of and subject to the
conditions and procedures imposed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-123 and
27-124. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-34; amd. 2016 Code)
1-11-18: WITNESS FEES:
   A.   Fees And Mileage Allowed: Witnesses in any proceeding in the court,
other than police officers or peace officers, shall be entitled to a fee as set
by the city per each day of attendance, plus mileage for each mile actually and
necessarily traveled in going to and returning from the place of attendance (if
their residence is outside the limits of the city). However, no witness shall
receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or
the same travel.
   B.   Deposit From Defendant; Exception For Indigents:
      1.   Deposit Required: A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must
deposit with the clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day
of attendance for each witness to be summoned.
      2.   Indigent Defendants:
         a.   Such deposit shall not be required from an indigent defendant who
files an affidavit setting out:
         (1)   The names of no more witnesses than the judge for the city shall
determine to be just, necessary and reasonable for the proper defense of the
indigent's case;
         (2)   That the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
         (3)   That the testimony of said witnesses is material; and
         (4)   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his proper
defense.
         b.   In any case where an indigent defendant has properly filled out
and filed with the city an affidavit setting forth the information mentioned in
subsection B2a of this section, then the fees of such witnesses shall be paid
by the city. (1985 Code ch. 12 § 1-31; amd. 2016 Code)
1-11-19: IMPRISONMENT; WORK BY PRISONERS:
   A.   Judgment Of Imprisonment: If, after conviction, judgment of
imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be
delivered to the chief of police, the sheriff of the county or other
appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution
of the sentence.
   B.   Work During Imprisonment: All prisoners confined to jail on conviction
or on plea of guilty, may be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the
public streets, avenues, alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or
property. For each day of such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving
two (2) days of imprisonment under his sentence.
   C.   Supervision Of Work: The chief of police, subject to the direction of
the mayor, shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the
department in charge of the place where the work is to be performed, himself,
or by some person designated by him, shall oversee the work. If a guard is
necessary, the chief of police shall make provision therefor. (1985 Code ch. 12
§ 1-35)
1-11-20: TRANSLATOR SERVICES TO DEFENDANTS:
In Instances in which a person is charged with an offense and prosecuted in the
Jay Municipal Court, where such individual is incapable of communicating in the
English language by reason of deafness or as a non-English speaking person, the
City shall engage and pay for the services of a translator capable of
communicating with the Defendant and to serve as an interpreter for the
Defendant. (Ord. 366, 1-3-2023)
CHAPTER 12
SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Schedule Of Fees And Charges
1-12-2: Processing Fees For Debit Or Credit Cards
1-12-1: SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Created:
      1.   There is hereby created a schedule of fees and charges to be known
as “Appendix A-Schedule of Fees and Charges” appended to the Code of Ordinances
of the City of Jay, Oklahoma, which shall contain those fees and charges for
the various licenses, permits and other fees and charges as may be from time to
time designated by the City Council. Where a fee or charge is authorized to be
collected by the City in any ordinance, the amount of the fee or charge shall
be as set forth in the ordinances or in the event the ordinance shall designate
reference to be made to the “Appendix A-Schedule of Fees and Charges” or
“Schedule of Fees and Charges” or “Fee Schedule” the fee or charge shall be as
set by resolution or motion and entered into the schedule of fees and charges.
The schedule shall be kept on file in the Office of the City Clerk, to whom all
fees and charges shall be paid, unless otherwise provided. A copy may be
obtained upon payment of a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and
charges.
   B.   Citation: The schedule of fees and charges hereby created shall also be
known and may be cited as the “Appendix A-Schedule of Fees and Charges” or
“Schedule of Fees and Charges” or “Fee Schedule”. (Ord. 357, 1-4-2021)
1-12-2: PROCESSING FEES FOR DEBIT OR CREDIT CARDS:
The processing of credit or debit card payments for fees and charges of the
City shall require the payment by the person making the payment, in addition to
the fees and charges assessed by the City, the processing fees incurred to the
City for the use of a debit or credit card as the method of payment. (Ord. 357,
1-4-2021)
TITLE 2
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Depositories Designated; Funds Deposited
2-1-2: Funds Secured
2-1-3: Investments
2-1-4: Budget Administration
2-1-1: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS DEPOSITED:
All banks and federally insured financial institutions within the city which
are incorporated under federal or state law are hereby designated as
depositories for the funds of the city. The city treasurer shall deposit daily
funds of the city. The city treasurer shall deposit daily all public funds
received by him/her in such institutions. Funds may be transferred from one
depository to the other as the financial management committee appointed by the
council may direct. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 2-1)
2-1-2: FUNDS SECURED:
The deposits of the city shall be secured pursuant to the security for local
public deposits act, provided in 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 517.1 et seq.;
and the provisions of this act are hereby adopted insofar as they are
applicable. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 2-2; amd. 2016 Code)
2-1-3: INVESTMENTS:
   A.   Investment Committee Created: An investment committee, comprised of the
city treasurer, the city finance officer (clerk) and the mayor, is hereby
created for the purpose of beneficial investment of funds accruing to the city.
(1985 Code ch. 7 § 2-3)
   B.   Authority To Invest: The investment committee is authorized to invest
and reinvest available funds of the city and its agencies, as limited by law;
provided, that income from such investments may be placed in such funds as
statutes afford, or into such funds as the city council may prescribe under
special conditions. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 2-4)
   C.   Records Of Investment Maintained: The city treasurer shall keep records
of all investments, showing the amount invested in each fund by type of
investment and distribution of interest earned. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 2-5)
2-1-4: BUDGET ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Statutory Budgeting Procedure:
      1.   The city has elected to adopt and adhere to the terms and provisions
of the municipal budget act, 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 17-201 through 17-
216. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 4-1; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   The chief executive officer (mayor) is required to take such actions
as are necessary to comply with all provisions of such act, in preparation and
presentation of the annual budget for the city.
      3.   The city council shall be the final approval authority on the annual
budget and shall determine needs as reflected in the budget draft. Such budget,
when approved and adopted, shall constitute appropriation for the year
budgeted. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 4-1)
   B.   Budget Preparation And Adoption:
      1.   The chief executive officer must submit a budget to the governing
body thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of the budget year.
      2.   The governing body must hold a public meeting on the proposed budget
no later than fifteen (15) days prior to the beginning of the budget year.
      3.   Notice of the public hearing must be published not less than five
(5) days before the day of the hearing.
      4.   After the public hearing and at least seven (7) days prior to the
beginning of the budget year, the governing body must adopt the budget.
      5.   The adopted budget must be filed with the following on or before the
first day of the budget year: (1985 Code ch. 7 § 4-2)
         a.   The excise board of the county; (1985 Code ch. 7 § 4-2; amd. 2016
Code)
         b.   The state auditor and inspector's office;
         c.   The office of the city clerk.
      6.   Within fifteen (15) days after the filing of the budget with the
state auditor and inspector's office, any taxpayer may file protests against
any alleged illegality in the budget.
      7.   If no protest is filed within the fifteen (15) day period, the
budget and its appropriations are deemed legal and final unless amended by the
governing body.
      8.   Budget amendments such as supplemental appropriations or changes in
appropriations of funds must be adopted at a meeting of the governing body and
filed with: (1985 Code ch. 7 § 4-2)
         a.   The excise board of the county; (1985 Code ch. 7 § 4-2; amd. 2016
Code)
         b.   The state auditor and inspector's office;
         c.   The office of the city clerk. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 4-2)
   C.   Budget Documentation Requirements: The budget submitted to the
governing body must contain a budget summary by fund that contains the
following itemized by department and account:
      1.   Actual revenues and expenditures for immediate prior fiscal year;
      2.   Revenues and expenditures for the current fiscal year as adopted and
amended;
      3.   Estimated revenues and expenditures for the budget year. (1985 Code
ch. 7 § 4-3)
CHAPTER 2
PURCHASING; BIDDING; SURPLUS SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
2-2-1: Adoption Of Purchasing System
2-2-2: General Procedures
2-2-3: Purchasing Limitations
2-2-4: Competitive Informal Bidding Procedures
2-2-5: Competitive Formal Bidding Procedures
2-2-6: Exemption From Bidding Upon Determination Of City Or City Council
2-2-7: Professional Service Contracts; Exempt From Bidding
2-2-8: Disposal Of Surplus Supplies Or Equipment
2-2-9: Penalties And Enforcement
2-2-1: ADOPTION OF PURCHASING SYSTEM:
In order to establish efficient procedures for the purchase of supplies,
services and equipment, to secure for the city/JUA supplies, services and
equipment at the lowest possible cost commensurate with quality needed, to
exercise positive financial control over purchases, to clearly define authority
for the purchasing function through the use of purchase orders, contracts and
other authorized procedures, and to assure the quality of purchases, the
purchasing system set forth in this chapter is adopted for the city of Jay and
Jay utilities authority. This chapter shall apply to professional services
contracts only as specifically provided here. (Ord. 336, 8-5-2019)
2-2-2: GENERAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   In awarding contracts or issuing purchase orders, first consider
sources of supplies and equipment located within the city. The city council has
encouraged all residents and businesses located within the city to shop locally
at businesses located in the city. In keeping with this policy, the city/JUA
shall make every attempt to purchase supplies and equipment from Jay businesses
in accordance with this chapter. The city/JUA or city council may give
preference to local bidders when awarding any contract or issuing any purchase
order for the purchase of goods when the bids meet any of the following
criteria to the extent allowed by law.
      1.   The local bidder will be able to provide goods which are equal in
quality and meet all bid specifications of the city and of other competing
bidders; or
      2.   A reasonable condition of the contract performance is expeditious
delivery of goods and it is reasonably believed that the local bidder will be
able to provide its goods more expeditiously than a business located outside
the city; or
      3.   Any other reason which would factually justify selection of a local
bidder based upon criteria which do not illegally discriminate against outside
businesses.
   B.   The term DEPARTMENT HEAD as used in this division means the person who
is designated by the city mayor as being responsible for each particular city/
JUA department, including, but not limited to, city mayor, city clerk, city
treasurer, and JUA.
   C.   Each department head or his/her designee shall ensure that sufficient
documentation is submitted to the city with a request for purchase to
demonstrate compliance with these policies and procedures and to justify the
acquisition of supplies and equipment. (Ord. 336, 8-5-2019)
2-2-3: PURCHASING LIMITATIONS:
For the purchase of supplies, equipment, and non-professional services, such
purchases may be made by the employees designated in this section subject to
compliance with the procedures and limitations contained in this section.
   A.   For purchases of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less, petty cash may
be used and the applicable department head or their designee must approve the
purchase. It is not required that bids be obtained for such purchases. No
purchase order is necessary; the receipt should be provided to the responsible
department head of the city.
   B.   For purchases over one hundred dollars ($100.00) but less than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), the applicable department head must
approve the purchase. The department head must then get approval from the
mayor, clerk, or treasurer. No purchase order is necessary, and it is not
required that bids be obtained for such purchases.
   C.   For purchases that are equal to or exceed two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) but are less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), the
city council/Jay utilities authority board must approve and execute the
purchase order or contract for the purchase prior to purchase. Before the
purchase is made, three (3) informal bids must be obtained from vendors.
   D.   For purchases that are equal to or exceed five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), the city council/Jay utilities authority board must approve and
execute the purchase order or contract for the purchase. Before the purchase is
made, three (3) formal bids must be obtained from vendors. (Ord. 336, 8-5-2019)
2-2-4: COMPETITIVE INFORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURES:
For purchases of supplies, equipment, or non-professional services with a value
of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or less, at least three (3) bids must be
obtained. Further, the purchase order or contract for such purchases shall be
awarded to the lowest responsible vendor, consistent with the quality, quantity
and delivery requirements. The lowest responsible bidder shall be determined by
such factors as reputation, ability, references, quality of supplies and
equipment, and price. Bids shall be submitted to the city clerk. (Ord. 336, 8-
5-2019)
2-2-5: COMPETITIVE FORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURES:
Contracts for supplies, equipment, and non-professional services of estimated
value of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more shall be let by the formal
procedures set forth herein.
   A.   The notice inviting bids shall be published at least ten (10) calendar
days before the date of opening of the bids. Notice shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation.
   B.   The city clerk shall also post a notice of current bidding
opportunities on a public bulletin board at city hall.
   C.   Sealed bids shall be submitted to the city clerk and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope. Bids shall be opened in public by the city
clerk or designee at the time and place stated in the public notices.
   D.   Contracts shall be awarded by the city council to the lowest
responsible bidder except as otherwise provided herein. The decision of the
city council shall be final.
   E.   In its discretion, the city council may reject any bids presented,
abandon the purchase, or advertise again. After rejecting the bids submitted,
the city council may either advertise again or adopt a resolution by a four-
fifths (4/5) majority declaring that the supplies or equipment can be furnished
at a lower price in the open market, and may award the contract in the open
market without further compliance with this section.
   F.   If two (2) or more bids received are the same and are the lowest, the
city council may accept the one it chooses.
   G.   The city council shall have the right to waive any defect or
informality in the bidding or in the procedures set forth in this section. A
waiver of any defect or informality shall not void any contract subsequently
entered into. (Ord. 336, 8-5-2019)
2-2-6: EXEMPTION FROM BIDDING UPON DETERMINATION OF CITY OR CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   The bidding requirements set forth in this chapter may be waived at the
discretion of the city, when any of the following is applicable:
      1.   The product is proprietary;
      2.   After a reasonable attempt has been made to obtain bids, and it has
been determined by the city that three (3) bids cannot be obtained;
      3.   The city finds that emergency conditions require the immediate
purchase of supplies or equipment. For the purpose of this section, EMERGENCY
PURCHASES are those procurements required to prevent the immediate interruption
or cessation of necessary city services or to safeguard life, property or the
public health and welfare;
      4.   The city determines that due to the nature of the supplies or
equipment, formal bidding is not likely to result in the lowest price;
      5.   Sufficient, satisfactory bids are not received;
      6.   Supplies or equipment are procured through a cooperative purchasing
program with the federal, state, county or other public agencies;
      7.   The commodity is unique, including, but not limited to, acquisition
of data processing, telecommunications and word processing equipment, goods and
services;
      8.   The product or service can be obtained from only one (1) vendor
(sole source); or
      9.   The purchase of a specific brand name, make or model is necessary to
match existing city equipment or facilitate effective maintenance and support.
   B.   The bidding requirements of this chapter may be waived by the city
council when, in the opinion of the city council, compliance with the
procedures is not in the best interest of the city. (Ord. 336, 8-5-2019)
2-2-7: PROFESSIONAL SERVICE CONTRACTS; EXEMPT FROM BIDDING:
   A.   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES are defined as services provided by any specially
trained and experienced person or firm, including, but not limited to, persons
or firms in the areas of accounting, administration, architecture, construction
management, economics, environmental analysis, engineering, finance, landscape
architecture, law, planning, surveying, or other matters involving specialized
expertise or unique skills.
   B.   Contracts awarded for the performance of services in the above-listed
areas shall be awarded by the city council on the basis of the demonstrated
competence of the contractors, and on the contractor's professional
qualifications necessary for the satisfactory performance of the services
required, and on the fairness and reasonableness of the cost of the services to
the city, and shall not be awarded solely on the basis of cost. The competitive
formal bidding requirements are not applicable to the procurement of
professional services. (Ord. 336, 8-5-2019)
2-2-8: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS SUPPLIES OR EQUIPMENT:
   A.   When Competitive Bidding Required: The head of any city department may
declare supplies or equipment (collectively "personal property") held by such
department surplus. Such declaration shall be in writing and the written
declaration shall be delivered to the city clerk who shall maintain a written
inventory of surplus supplies and equipment for circulation to and review by
each department. If any department has use for such personal property, the
department head may request reassignment of such personal property from the
city mayor. The city mayor shall have the authority to assign the personal
property to the department best able to make use of such personal property. If
no department head makes a request for use of such personal property, the
property will then go to city council to be deemed surplus.
      1.   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment of a value
of more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) may be sold until the council shall
have declared them obsolete or surplus. Except as otherwise provided in
division B. of this section, the council shall advertise them for sale in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city and such other manner as the
council deems necessary to adequately reach prospective buyers and allow them
an opportunity to make bids.
      2.   All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened during a city council
meeting at a designated time and place, except when the sale is by auction. The
council may repeatedly reject all bids and advertise or give notice again. The
council may sell such supplies, materials or equipment only to the highest
responsible bidder for cash. In case of a tie, the council may sell to either
of the bidders tying, allow the tied bidders to submit higher bids, or divide
the sale among two (2) or more tying, always selling to the highest responsible
bidder or bidders for cash.
      3.   In accordance with Okla. Stat. Tit. 11 § 8-113, any person who
receives wages, reimbursement for expenses, or emoluments of any kind from the
city of Jay, any spouse of the person, or any business in which the person or
spouse has a proprietary interest may purchase surplus property from the city
or a public trust of which the municipality is beneficiary so long as the
surplus property is offered for sale to the public after notice of the sale is
published as set forth in division (A)(1) and a third party who is not in the
class also submits a bid.
   B.   When Competitive Bidding Not Required: The mayor may sell the following
without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
      1.   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total
value does not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) in a single transaction;
or
      2.   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the city for the same. (Ord. 336, 8-5-2019; amd. Ord.
382, 5-16-2024)
2-2-9: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Jay mayor in
addition, any elected official may enforce this chapter. (Ord. 336, 8-5-2019
CHAPTER 3
SALES TAX
SECTION:
2-3-1: Short Title
2-3-2: Definitions
2-3-3: Classification Of Taxpayers
2-3-4: Subsisting State Permits
2-3-5: Tax Rate Ordinances; Effective Dates; Purpose
2-3-6: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
2-3-7: Tax Due Date
2-3-8: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
2-3-9: Tax Constitutes Debt
2-3-10: Collection By Vendors
2-3-11: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
2-3-12: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
2-3-13: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
2-3-14: Fraudulent Returns
2-3-15: Records Confidential
2-3-16: Amendments
2-3-17: Provisions Cumulative
2-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF JAY SALES TAX CODE
and is hereinafter referred to as "this chapter". (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-1)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Generally: The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the
Oklahoma sales tax code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352, are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-15; amd.
2016 Code)
   B.   Tax Collector Defined: The term "tax collector" as used herein means
the department of the city government or the official agency of the state duly
designated according to law or contract authorized by law to administer the
collection of the tax herein levied. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-14)
2-3-3: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this title, the classification of taxpayers hereunder shall
be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma sales tax code.
(1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-11)
2-3-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purposes of
this chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional city permit for the same purpose. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-2)
2-3-5: TAX RATE ORDINANCES; EFFECTIVE DATES; PURPOSE:
   A.   Ordinances, Effective Dates: Sales tax ordinances became effective as
follows: on August 22, 1967, one percent (1%); and on February 1, 1984,
additional two percent (2%), respectively, for a total of a three percent (3%)
tax, said ordinances having first gained the approval of a majority of voters
of the city of Jay in duly called elections for that purpose as prescribed by
11 Oklahoma Statutes, as amended. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Purpose Of Revenue: It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this
chapter, as evidenced by first intent as mandated by the people, to provide
through first one percent (1%) tax revenues for the support of the functions of
the municipal government of the city, and to provide through the additional two
percent (2%) tax revenue for an ambulance service for the city and immediate
surrounding area, better streets and alleys, better police and fire protection,
better street lighting, and other capital improvements to the city. (1985 Code
ch. 7 § 1-4)
2-3-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The city sales tax shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds of
such sales as specified in the Oklahoma sales tax code, and exemptions from
such taxes shall be allowed pursuant to said Oklahoma sales tax code. (2016
Code)
2-3-7: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the sales tax law
of the state of Oklahoma. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-8)
2-3-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time and in the
form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the sales tax law
of Oklahoma. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-9)
2-3-9: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (1985 Code ch. 7 §
1-10)
2-3-10: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in the city to
collect from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this
chapter, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average
equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner
as other debts. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-12)
   C.   A vendor, as defined herein, who wilfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied hereof, or
wilfully fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions, or remits or
rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever
means, all or any part of the tax herein levied, or makes in any form of
advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he is
absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an adjustment
of process or at a price including the tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall
be deemed guilty of an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-12; amd. 2016 Code)
2-3-11: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be subject to
the same discount as may be allowed by the Oklahoma sales tax code for
collection of state sales taxes. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-13; amd. 2016 Code)
2-3-12: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Delinquency; Statute Adopted: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is
hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter, and interest and penalties at
the rates and in amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be
applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by
this chapter. Provided, that the failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and
transmit the reports and remittance of tax in the time and manner required by
this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the taxpayer shall forfeit
his claim to any discount allowed under this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-16)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the tax
herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said
waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the state sales tax
provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220; and to accomplish the purposes of
this section, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-17)
2-3-13: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made to
the taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-18)
2-3-14: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances therein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-19; amd. 2016 Code)
2-3-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205 of
the state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the city
sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-20)
2-3-16: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the city, by their approval of ordinances 97 and 170 at the
elections hereinabove provided, hereby authorize the city council by ordinances
duly enacted to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in
the method and manner of administration and enforcing this chapter as may be
necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness except that the rate of the tax
herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified elector
of the city as provided by law. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-22)
2-3-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of city ordinances. (1985 Code ch. 7 § 1-23)
CHAPTER 4
LODGING TAX
SECTION:
2-4-1: Citation And Codification
2-4-2: Definitions
2-4-3: Tax Rate
2-4-4: Exemptions
2-4-5: Tax To Be Separately Designated On Bills
2-4-6: Operator’s Duties
2-4-7: Bond Required; City Collection
2-4-8: Assessment And Determination Of Tax
2-4-9: Refunds
2-4-10: Notices
2-4-11: Remedies Exclusive
2-4-12: Agreement Of Administration
2-4-13: General Powers Of The City Administrator
2-4-14: Certificates Of Registration
2-4-15: Purpose
2-4-16: Records Confidential
2-4-17: Criminal Penalties
2-4-18: Civil Remedies
2-4-19: Amendments
2-4-20: Provisions Cumulative
2-4-1: CITATION AND CODIFICATION:
This chapter shall be known and cited as The City of Jay Lodging Tax Ordinance.
(Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
CITY:               The City of Jay, Oklahoma.
                    The Mayor of the City, or such other individual as may be
CITY ADMINISTRATOR: designated from time to time by the City Council to act in
                    such capacity.
CITY COUNCIL:       Duly authorized City Council of the City acting in their
                    official capacity.
                    Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other
                    facility in which the public may, for consideration, obtain
                    sleeping accommodations, and in which rooms are used for
                    the accommodation of such occupant whether such rooms are
                    in one or several structures.
HOTEL:              The term shall include hotels, apartment hotels, motels,
                    tourist courts, lodging houses, inns, rooming houses, and
                    all other facilities where rooms or sleeping facilities or
                    space are furnished for consideration. The term shall not
                    include hospitals, mental health care facilities, assisted
                    living centers or nursing homes.
OCCUPANCY:          The use or possession, or the right to the use or
                    possession of any room or rooms in a Hotel.
                    The person, who for a consideration, uses, possesses, or
OCCUPANT:           has the right to the use or possession of any room or rooms
                    in a Hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of
                    access, license to use, or other agreement.
                    Any person operating a Hotel within the City, including,
OPERATOR:           but not limited to, the owner, proprietor, manager, lessee,
                    sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other
                    person otherwise operating such Hotel.
                    Any individual, corporation, company, partnership,
PERSON:             voluntary association, firm, club, society, organization or
                    any other entity of whatever kind or nature.
                    The consideration received for occupancy valued in money,
                    whether received in money or otherwise, including all
RENT:               receipts, cash credits, and property or services of any
                    kind or nature, and also any amount for which credit is
                    allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any
                    deduction therefrom whatsoever.
RETURN:             Any report filed or required to be filed as herein
                    provided.
                    Any room or suite of rooms of any kind in any part or
ROOM:               portion of a Hotel which is available for or let out for
                    use or possessed for sleeping facilities.
TAX:                The tax levied pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 370, 2-6-
                    2023)
 
2-4-3: TAX RATE:
There is hereby levied an excise tax of eight percent (8.00%) (in addition to
any and all other excise taxes now in force) upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room or rooms in a
Hotel in this City. Rooms provided free of charge, through barter, trade or any
other arrangement or agreement of any kind or nature, are also subject to such
tax at the sales value of the room so provided (with “sales value” to mean the
price at which the room would be rented to the operator’s best customer in the
ordinary course of business). (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The exemptions from excise tax enumerated in Title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, as
amended, Section 1350 et. seq. (the “Oklahoma Sales Tax Code”) are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference. To the extent any conflicts in
connection with the permitted exemptions should arise under this chapter and
the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code shall prevail. (Ord.
370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-5: TAX TO BE SEPARATELY DESIGNATED ON BILLS:
The operator shall separately designate, charge and show the Tax on all bills,
statements, receipts or any other evidence of charge or payment of rent for
occupancy issued or delivered by the operator. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-6: OPERATOR’S DUTIES:
   A.   Operator responsible for collections. The operator shall be responsible
for the collection of the tax from the occupant and shall be liable to the City
for the tax which shall be held in trust by the operator until paid to the City
or the Oklahoma Tax Commission pursuant to an agreement to collect municipal
lodging taxes as set forth in Title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, Section
2701 et. seq. of the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code. The operator shall join the City
as a party to any action brought by the operator to enforce collection of the
tax.
   B.   Records to be kept. Every operator shall keep records of every
occupancy and of all rent paid, charged, or due thereon and of the tax payable
thereon in such form as the City Administrator or Oklahoma Tax Commission may
by regulation require. Such records shall be available for inspection and
examination at any time upon demand by the City Administrator, or a duly
authorized agent or employee of the City or the Oklahoma Tax Commission, and
shall be preserved for a period of three years.
   C.   Returns.
      1.   In the event of collection of the Tax levied pursuant to this
chapter by the Oklahoma Tax Commission, each operator shall file with the City
Administrator a copy of their completed Oklahoma State Sales Tax Form within
twenty (20) days after the end of each month following the effective date of
this chapter.
      2.   In the event of collection of the Tax levied pursuant to this
chapter by the City, every operator shall file with the City Administrator a
return as prescribed by the City and shall contain such information as may be
deemed necessary and proper for the administration of this chapter, of any
occupancy and of rents, and of the taxes payable thereon for the period ending
on the last day of each month following the effective date of this chapter.
Such return shall be filed within the first twenty (20) days after the end of
each such month. The City Administrator may require amended returns to be filed
within ten (10) days after notice and to contain the information specified in
the notice.
   D.   Payment of tax. The payment of the tax levied pursuant to this chapter
shall be due prior to the twentieth (20th) day following the month during which
the charge for the occupancy of a Hotel is incurred by the occupant, or at such
times as returns may be submitted to the Oklahoma Tax Commission in accordance
with the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code. At the time of filing a return of occupancy
and of rents, each operator shall pay to the City treasurer or the Oklahoma Tax
Commission (in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the municipal
lodging tax under the laws of the State of Oklahoma) the taxes imposed by this
chapter upon the rents included in such return. All taxes not paid with a
timely return shall be delinquent. All the taxes for the period for which a
return is required to be filed shall be due from the operator and payable to
the City treasurer or Oklahoma Tax Commission on or before the date fixed for
the filing of the return for such period without regard to whether a return is
filed or whether the return which is filed correctly shows the amount of rents
and the taxes due thereon.
   E.   Deduction for Record Keeping. For so long as the operator maintains
compliance with the collection and remittance of the Tax due hereunder, the
Operator shall be allowed a deduction in accordance with the provisions of
Title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, Section 1367.1, as compensation for
the keeping and maintaining of sales tax records, filing reports and remitting
the tax when due.
   F.   Delinquent taxes. All taxes not paid within twenty (20) calendar days
following the last day of the period for the collection of the tax levied by
this chapter shall be delinquent.
   G.   Interest and penalties on unpaid taxes. If any tax levied by this
chapter becomes delinquent, the person responsible for and liable for
remittance of such tax shall pay penalties on such unpaid tax at the rates and
charges as established in Title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, Section 217.
(Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-7: BOND REQUIRED; CITY COLLECTION:
In the event of initial collection of the Tax levied hereunder shall be
collected by the City, or after such termination of an Agreement of
Administration authorized in Section 12 hereof, where the City Administrator
believes that any Operator is about to cease business, leave the state, or
remove or dissipate assets, or for any other similar reason the City
Administrator deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under this
chapter may require such operator to file with the City a bond issued by a
surety company authorized to transact business in the state in such amount as
the City Administrator may fix to secure the payment of any tax or penalties
and interest due, or which may become due from such operator. In the event that
the City Administrator determines that an operator is to file such bond, the
City Administrator shall give notice to such operator specifying the amount of
security required. The operator shall file such security as a performance bond
or irrevocable letter of credit within five (5) days after the filing of such
notice unless within such five (5) days the operator shall request in writing a
hearing before the City Council, at which time the necessary propriety and
amount of the bond shall be determined by the City Council. Such determination
shall be final and shall be complied with within fifteen (15) days thereafter.
In lieu of such bond, a cash or securities escrow, in an amount and under terms
approved by the City Administrator, may be deposited with the City
Administrator, who may at any time after five days notice to the depositor,
apply them to any tax and/or any penalties due and for that purpose the
securities may be sold at private or public sale. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-8: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX:
If a return required by this chapter is not filed, or if a return when filed is
incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the City
Administrator or the Oklahoma Tax Commission from such information as may be
obtainable and, if necessary, the tax may be estimated on the basis of external
indices, such as number of rooms, location, scale of rents, comparable rents,
types of accommodations and services, number of employees, or other factors.
Written notice of such assessments shall be given to the person liable for the
collection and payment of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and
irrevocably fix and determine the tax:
   A.   Unless the person against whom it is assessed shall apply in writing to
the City Council for a hearing within sixty (60) days after the City gives
notice of such assessment; or
   B.   (b)   Unless the City Administrator decides to reassess the same.
After such hearing, the City Council shall give written notice of its
determination within thirty (30) days to the person against whom the tax is
assessed and such determination shall be final. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-9: REFUNDS:
   A.   Procedure.
      1.   Oklahoma Tax Commission Collection of Tax. If collection of the tax
levied pursuant to this chapter is delegated to the Oklahoma Tax Commission
pursuant to an agreement for the collection of municipally imposed lodging tax,
the Oklahoma Tax Commission shall be responsible for making refunds to
taxpayers previously collected by the Oklahoma Tax Commission on the City’s
behalf in accordance with the guidelines, procedures and regulations previously
adopted by the Oklahoma Tax Commission.
      2.   City Collection of Tax. The City Administrator shall direct the
refund or credit of any tax erroneously, illegally or unconstitutionally
collected if written application to the City Administrator for such refund is
made within two years from the date of payment thereof. For like causes, and in
the same period, a refund may be so made upon the initiative of the City
Administrator, subject to existing limits on the authority of the City
Administrator as to amount. The City Administrator, in lieu of any refund
required to be made, may allow credit thereof on payments due from the
applicant. Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in
writing. Such application may be made by the person who has collected and paid
such tax to the City treasurer; however, no refund of money shall be made to
the operator until the operator has repaid to the occupant the amount for which
the application for refund is made.
         a.   Determination and hearing. Upon application for a refund the City
Administrator may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such
investigation as is deemed necessary. After making a determination as to the
refund, the City Administrator shall give written notice thereof to the
applicant. Such determination shall be final unless the applicant, within
thirty (30) days after such notice, shall apply in writing to the City Council
for a hearing. After such hearing the City Council shall give written notice of
its decision to the applicant. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-10: NOTICES:
Notices provided for under this chapter shall be deemed to have been given when
such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the operator.
In the absence of written evidence received by the City to the contrary, the
last known address shall be presumed to be the address shown on the certificate
of registration as required by Section
2-4-14 herein. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-11: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this chapter shall be the exclusive remedies available
to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this chapter. (Ord.
370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-12: AGREEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION:
Upon approval of the Tax by a majority of the qualified voters of the City, the
City shall be authorized, but not obligated, to enter into an Agreement of
Administration (the “Agreement”) with the Oklahoma Tax Commission for
collection of the Tax levied hereunder. Should the City elect to enter into
said Agreement, Operators shall follow the normal rules and procedures of
collection and administration of excise tax as prescribed by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission. In the event of a subsequent change in administration and
collection of the Tax, Operators shall be notified in accordance with the
notice provisions required under state law and the rules of the Oklahoma Tax
Commission of the date of such change in collection practices and any
requirements of Operators enumerated under this chapter where the City shall
serve as the collector of the Tax. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-13: GENERAL POWERS OF THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR:
In addition to all other powers granted to the City Administrator, the City
Administrator is hereby authorized:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
execution of this chapter and for the purposes hereof;
   B.   To extend for cause shown the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding thirty (30) days; and for cause shown to waive, remit, or reduce
penalties or interest;
   C.   To delegate functions hereunder to authorized designees for the City;
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the amount of taxes
(but not the tax rate) imposed by this chapter;
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents;
   F.   To administer oaths and take affidavits concerning any matter or
proceeding under this chapter; and
   G.   To subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the production
of books, papers and documents to secure information pertinent to the
performance and the enforcement of this chapter and to examine them in relation
thereto. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-14: CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION:
Every operator shall file with the City Administrator a certificate of
registration in a form prescribed by the City Administrator within ten days
after the effective date of this chapter, or in the case of operators
commencing business or opening new Hotels after such effective date, within
three days after such commencement or opening. The City Administrator shall,
within five days after such registration, issue, without charge, to each
operator a certificate of authority empowering such operator to collect the tax
from the occupant and duplicates thereof for each additional Hotel. Each
certificate or duplicate shall state the Hotel to which it is applicable. Such
certificate of authority shall be permanently displayed by the operator in such
manner that it may be seen and will come to the notice of all occupants and
persons seeking occupancy. Such certificates shall be non-assignable,
nontransferable, and shall be surrendered immediately to the City Administrator
upon the cessation of business at the Hotel named, or upon its sale or
transfer. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-15: PURPOSE:
All taxes collected pursuant to provisions of this chapter shall be placed in
the general funds of the City, shall be budgeted and appropriated annually by
the City, and shall be expended exclusively for the following purpose: to
provide revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government
of The City of Jay, Oklahoma, including but not limited to the upkeep and
renovation of municipal properties, parks and recreation, and streets, and any
and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the governing body of the
municipality for any purposes for which funds may be lawfully expended as
authorized. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records file concerning the
administration of the Hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared and,
in order to protect the same, the provisions of Title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, as
amended, Section 205 of the State Sales Tax Code, and each subsection thereof
and all amendments thereto, as hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to the administration of this chapter as if here set
forth. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-17: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
   A.   The willful intent or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances therein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this chapter, shall constitute a violation of the Code of
Ordinances of the City and shall be subject to a general penalty as set forth
in the City Code of the City.
   B.   The failure by an operator to file a security bond as required, to
register or to display the certificate of registration, or to separately state
the tax on the bill or to collect such tax from the occupant, shall constitute
a violation of the Code of Ordinances of the City and shall be subject to a
general penalty as set forth in the City Code of the City. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-18: CIVIL REMEDIES:
   A.   Whenever any operator, occupant or other person shall fail to collect
and/or pay over any tax, or to owe any tax, penalty or interest imposed by this
chapter as herein provided, the City Administrator may authorize the director
of finance to file notice of liens on behalf of the City against the real
estate upon which the Hotel is located and/or against all franchises, property
and rights to property, whether real or personal, then belonging to or
thereafter acquired by the person owing the tax pursuant to Title 68, Oklahoma
Statutes as amended, Section 2701 and Section 2704,
   B.   The liens shall, upon proper filing, attach to the real estate and/or
personal property then owned or thereafter acquired by the debtor, whether such
property is used by the debtor in the operation of business or is under the
authority of an assignee, trustee, or receiver for the benefit of creditors,
from the date such taxes are due and payable as allowed by Title 68, Oklahoma
Statutes, as amended, Section 2704.
   C.   The City Administrator shall notify the person owing the tax by
personal service or by certified mail that the City will file such liens if any
delinquent taxes, interest and/or penalties are not paid within fifteen (15)
days of receiving such notice.
   D.   The City Administrator may also authorize the City attorney to
institute an action in personam and in rem to enforce payment and collect any
delinquent taxes, penalties and/or interest. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-19: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the City, by their approval of this chapter at the election
hereinabove provided for, hereby authorize the City by Ordinance duly enacted
to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method
and manner of administration and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or
proper for efficiency and fairness or in order to make the same consistent with
the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, except that the rate of the tax and the purpose of
the tax herein provided for shall not be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the City as provided by law. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
2-4-20: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of City Ordinances. (Ord. 370, 2-6-2023)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required; Payment Of Fee
3-1-2: Multiple Occupations
3-1-3: License Issuance; Termination; Nontransferable
3-1-4: Contents Of License
3-1-5: Discretion By Mayor On Waiver Of License Or Fee
3-1-6: Unlawful Businesses Prohibited
3-1-7: Use Of Revenue
3-1-8: Collection Of State And City Sales Tax
3-1-9: Revocation Of License
3-1-10: Penalty
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; PAYMENT OF FEE:
   A.   Business License And Fee: Any person who shall carry on any
occupations, businesses, professions or pursuits or who solicits or peddles,
other than those covered by the trade license in section
9-1-3 of this Code, within the corporate limits of the City shall be required
to pay an annual license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Said license
will expire on June 30th of each year and must be renewed by July 1st.
   B.   Fee Paid On Each Location: The fee levied shall be paid upon each
separate location that is under one management; separate places of sales
activity each shall be licensed although owned by one person, or partnership of
persons.
   C.   Penalty: The penalty for opening a business without obtaining a license
is triple the cost of the required license fee. (Ord. 328, 3-4-2019)
3-1-2: MULTIPLE OCCUPATIONS:
Any person following more than one calling, occupation, business or profession
shall pay the tax required on each calling, business or profession in which he
engages in competition with existing enterprise. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-10)
3-1-3: LICENSE ISSUANCE; TERMINATION; NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   Issuance Of License: Any person who desires to carry on any business,
profession or pursuit in the City shall apply to the City Clerk for such
license, who, upon receiving amount required therefor shall issue to such
person a receipt for such money, stating for what same is paid, and the time
for which said license is issued. Persons holding such license cannot transfer
or sell the same. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-11)
   B.   License Term: All licenses regulated by this title, except those issued
for one day, shall expire on June 30 next following when the same are issued.
Unless otherwise herein provided, no license shall be issued until the amount
prescribed therefor shall have been paid. Fees provided for herein shall be
collected by the City Clerk, and licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk.
(1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-15; amd. 2016 Code)
3-1-4: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
The license shall show the date, amount of license to be paid, by whom paid,
and what occupation is licensed, the length of time for which license is paid,
and the name of the person to whom the license is issued. No other person than
the one to whom license is issued shall be protected by it. (1985 Code ch. 5 §
1-16)
3-1-5: DISCRETION BY MAYOR ON WAIVER OF LICENSE OR FEE:
The Mayor, in his discretion, when he deems it to be in the best interest of
the City, and to the advantage of legitimate businesses within the City, may
waive any of the licenses or fees provided for in this title. (1985 Code ch. 5
§ 1-12)
3-1-6: UNLAWFUL BUSINESSES PROHIBITED:
Nothing herein contained shall ever be construed as authorizing the conduct of
any business or occupation which is by law prohibited. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-19)
3-1-7: USE OF REVENUE:
All monies and funds derived from taxes, license fees and other assessments
herein made shall be paid into the General Fund of the City used to defray its
general expense. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-14)
3-1-8: COLLECTION OF STATE AND CITY SALES TAX:
On any sale of merchandise on which the Sales and Use Tax laws of the State of
Oklahoma or the City of Jay apply, the Sales Tax applicable shall be collected
and properly accounted for in accordance with rules of procedure promulgated by
the Oklahoma Tax Commission. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-22)
3-1-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under provisions of this title may be revoked by the Mayor,
for violation by licensee of any applicable provision of this Code, State law
or other applicable rules or regulations. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-25)
3-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who engages in any business, profession, trade
or occupation, or exercises any privilege, for which a license or permit is
required by this title, without a valid license or permit as hereby required,
or who otherwise violates any provision of this title, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Every day upon which a violation occurs or continues shall
be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 248, 11-4-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESSES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Exception To License Fees
3-2-3: Carrying Or Posting Licenses
3-2-4: Location Restrictions
3-2-5: Misrepresentation
3-2-6: Taxicabs, License Fee
3-2-7: Skating Rinks
3-2-8: Peddling, Soliciting And Similar Activities
3-2-9: Selling Fruits And Vegetables; Spraying Or Trimming Plants And Trees
3-2-10: Operating Concessions, Stands
3-2-11: Carnivals, Tent Shows
3-2-12: Shooting Galleries
3-2-13: Obscene Shows Or Entertainments Prohibited
3-2-14: Fortune Telling Prohibited
3-2-15: Throwing Advertising Matter On Streets Prohibited
3-2-16: Short Weights And Measures Prohibited
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ITINERANT MERCHANT, PEDDLER: Any person, firm or agent who engages in a
business or trade of a temporary or transient retail nature, or who conducts
any game, show, exhibit or device of any nature in the city of Jay.
TEMPORARY: Any period of time to include one day or one year or portions
thereof. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-23)
3-2-2: EXCEPTION TO LICENSE FEES:
Any person carrying on any of the occupations provided for in this chapter
shall not be liable for any tax or license fee if sales are made through the
merchants of the city. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-9)
3-2-3: CARRYING OR POSTING LICENSES:
Itinerant licensees must carry a license on their person and exhibit same to
any person upon being requested to do so, or post same in public view at
location of sales. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-18)
3-2-4: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Obstructing Public Streets Or Rights Of Way: It shall be unlawful and
an offense for any itinerant merchant to set up, park or operate from any
public use area such as streets, alleys, sidewalks, or highways within the
city. Licenses issued for the purpose of engaging in any temporary business
does not authorize the use of public property for such enterprise.
Establishment, setup or operation of such business may be carried on only on
private property, the use of which has been permitted by the owner. Permission
for use of such property shall be evidenced by the owner or his agent in the
space provided on the itinerant merchant's receipt issued by the city clerk.
(1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-20; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Obstructing Private Entries; Pedestrian Or Vehicular Traffic: Setup,
parking or display of wares in such a manner as to present a bar to entry onto
private property, obscure vision so as to present a hazard to the orderly flow
of vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall be unlawful. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-21)
3-2-5: MISREPRESENTATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under provisions of this chapter
to make false or fraudulent claims concerning the quality of his goods, wares,
merchandise or services while protected by a license issued hereunder. (1985
Code ch. 5 § 1-24)
3-2-6: TAXICABS, LICENSE FEE:
For the privilege of running or operating a service car or taxicab in the
transportation of people for a fee, the license fee shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-7: SKATING RINKS:
For the privilege of operating a temporary skating rink in the corporate limits
of the city, the license fee will be fifty dollars ($50.00) per week, or less
time, and location shall not be in or near a residential neighborhood;
provided, that such activity conducted with a scheduled promotional festival
shall be exempt from this citation. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-6)
3-2-8: PEDDLING, SOLICITING AND SIMILAR ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Selling Merchandise, Goods Or Materials: A license shall be required of
any person selling any kind of merchandise, goods or materials in the city;
persons taking orders or delivering any merchandise, goods or materials
received from the carrier from such person, or delivered by the seller or his
agent. This shall include the selling or delivering of any merchandise, goods
or materials that are in competition with any established business or
profession in the city. For each person, the license fee shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per day, or less time, or two hundred dollars ($200.00) for
each person per year. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-3)
   B.   Taking Subscriptions; Soliciting Of Funds:
      1.   For the privilege of taking subscriptions to papers, magazines,
books, encyclopedias, book of the month clubs, record of the month clubs, or
selling any reading materials or audio material, any ads or advertising
materials or the soliciting of any funds by any person not connected with an
established business, profession, school, church or civic club for more than
one year in the city, the license fee for each person shall be ten dollars
($10.00) per day, or less time. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-4; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   The mayor shall, at his discretion, have the right to issue permits
at no charge to worthwhile churches, schools and civic clubs or charitable
organizations. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-4)
   C.   Exemptions: The provision hereof with reference to peddlers, agents,
and solicitors shall not be held to include or apply to acts of persons selling
at wholesale to licensed dealers in such articles whose stock of merchandise is
listed with the county assessor for taxation, nor to their employees in taking
orders at the houses of their customers of goods so ordered, to licensed
tradesmen, nor shall the terms of this chapter be held to include farmers and
truck gardeners who offer for sale or sell vegetables, eggs, or other produce
of their own raising within Delaware County, or to persons exempt by laws of
the state or the United States. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-17)
   D.   Invitation Required:
      1.   The practice of going in and upon private residences, business
establishments or offices in the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers,
itinerant merchants, and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner-occupant of said private residence,
business establishments or office for the purpose of soliciting orders for the
sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and/or for the purpose of disposing of
and/or peddling or hawking the same is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and
punishable as such nuisance as a misdemeanor. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 8-1)
      2.   The police department of the city is hereby required and directed to
suppress the same, and to abate any such nuisance as is described in subsection
D1 of this section. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 8-2)
3-2-9: SELLING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES; SPRAYING OR TRIMMING PLANTS AND TREES:
   A.   License Fee: For the privilege of selling fruits, vegetables, trees,
shrubs, flowers, or any plant that grows, or the privilege of spraying,
treating, grafting or pruning trees, shrubs, flowers or vines, for any reason,
the license fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day or two hundred
dollars ($200.00) per year. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-8; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Waiver Of Fee: The mayor, at his discretion, will have the right to
issue permits at no charge to a person who wishes to sell his own vegetables,
fruits, trees, shrubs or nuts, grown in Delaware County, on his own farm.
Provided, that nothing herein serves as a bar to utility companies to prune or
treat trees or shrubs coming in contact with their wires, lines or piping.
(1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-8)
3-2-10: OPERATING CONCESSIONS, STANDS:
For the privilege of operating doll racks, knife racks, bingo stands,
exhibitions or concessions of any kind, or the playing of music on the streets
for money, the license fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day or two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per year, except in conjunction with authorized
festivals. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-5; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-11: CARNIVALS, TENT SHOWS:
For the privilege of operating temporary shows having vaudeville or tent shows
of any kind, the license fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day, or
less time, or one hundred dollars ($100.00) per week; for carnivals as a whole,
or part, the license fee shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for five
(5) days, or less time; for circus or menagerie shows, the license fee shall be
fifty dollars ($50.00) per day, with no weekly rate. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 1-7)
3-2-12: SHOOTING GALLERIES:
Every shooting gallery constructed, established, set up or operated hereinafter
shall be constructed, established, set up and operated in accordance with
standards, specifications and requirements of 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 701
through 708, and comply with all the requirements thereof. No shooting gallery
shall be operated until a license has been secured therefor in accordance with
this chapter. Any violation of any provision of this section or of any
provision of 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 701 through 708 shall be deemed an
offense against the city, and shall be punishable as such. (1985 Code ch. 5 §
3-1)
3-2-13: OBSCENE SHOWS OR ENTERTAINMENTS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to show vile, obscene, or immoral moving pictures at any time or
to give any kind of a show, exhibition, or entertainment which is vile, obscene
or immoral, at any time. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 2-1)
3-2-14: FORTUNE TELLING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person pretending or professing to tell fortunes by the
use of any subtle craft, means or device whatsoever, either by palmistry,
clairvoyance or otherwise, plying his or her trade, art or profession, to make
any charge therefor either directly or indirectly or to receive any gift,
donation or subscription by any means whatsoever for the same. (1985 Code ch. 5
§ 4-1)
3-2-15: THROWING ADVERTISING MATTER ON STREETS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave, deposit, or cause to be thrown,
left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, utility pole or other
public area, any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter, political
campaign literature or advertisement for garage sales, etc. (1985 Code ch. 5 §
5-1)
3-2-16: SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, or offer for sale,
any food, fuel, clothing or any other commodity which does not weigh or measure
fully as much, according to standard weight or measure, for which it is sold or
offered for sale. (1985 Code ch. 5 § 6-1)
ARTICLE A. MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Purpose
3-2A-2: Definitions
3-2A-3: Permit For Operation Required, Offense
3-2A-4: Multiple Mobile Food Service Permits Requirement
3-2A-5: Conditions For Issuance Of Permit
3-2A-6: Restrictions On Locations Of Operation
3-2A-7: Reasonable Conduct Of Operations
3-2A-8: Use Of Public Property And Public Rights Of Way
3-2A-9: General Requirements Of Operations
3-2A-10: Administrative Officer Designation
3-2A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the actions/operations of mobile
food service establishments conducting business operations within the city
limits of the city of Jay, Oklahoma, to the limited and restricted extent as
expressly set forth herein. It is not the purpose of this chapter to adopt
“health regulations” governing or pertaining to mobile food service
establishments. The matters of “health regulations” and enforcement thereof
pertaining to mobile food service establishments are matters the city deems
appropriate and in the best interest of the city to leave to the jurisdiction
and control of the Oklahoma department of health. (Ord. 364, 11-7-2022)
3-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the
following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
 
FOOD:       A raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage, or ingredient used or
            intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human consumption.
FULL        A vehicle or trailer designed and equipped to prepare and serve open food
SERVICE     products.
MOBILE:
MOBILE FOOD A facility that prepares or serves food and is vehicle mounted or is otherwise
SERVICE:    readily movable and includes, but is not necessarily limited to, “full service
            mobile”, “prepackaged mobile”, and “pushcart” as those terms are defined herein.
PREPACKAGED A vehicle or trailer limited to the sale of commercially manufactured prepackaged
MOBILE:     food products.
            A non-self-propelled vehicle, the operation of which is limited to serving non-
PUSHCART:   potentially hazardous foods and/or commercially prepackaged foods. (Ord. 364, 11-
            7-2022)
 
3-2A-3: PERMIT FOR OPERATION REQUIRED, OFFENSE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mobile food service
within the city limits of the city of Jay, Oklahoma, without a valid mobile
food service permit issued by the city.
   B.   Violation of this permit requirement shall be an offense and punishable
pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of the City Code for Jay, Oklahoma.
   C.   “Operate” as that term is used herein shall mean and be defined as:
      1.   Physically participating in the active conduct of the operation of a
mobile food service at the location where such activities are occurring, or
      2.   Directing the conduct of operations of the mobile food service by a
person having the authority to direct and/or manage the operations of a mobile
food service, causing the mobile food service to operate in violation of this
section, regardless of the person being present at the location where such
activities are occurring.
   D.   There shall be only one form of permit issued by the city regardless of
classification. The permit shall be a “permit for mobile food service
establishment”.
   E.   There shall be three (3) classes of permits issued by the city as
follows:
      1.   One day permit (valid for one day specified],
      2.   Special event permit (valid for duration of time of special event],
      3.   One year permit (valid for calendar year of issuance], however, the
physical location of the mobile food service must be changed every 10 days.
   F.   The amount of the fee to be paid for the issuance of a permit pursuant
to an approved application for the permit shall be that as set by the city
council from time to time in ‘’Appendix A Schedule of Fees & Charges” of this
code.
   G.   In addition to the fee for issuance of the permit pursuant to an
approved application as set forth in subsection F of this section there shall
be assessed an administrative processing fee for all applications for permits
in an amount as set by the city council from time to time in “Appendix A
Schedule of Fees & Charges” of this code.
   H.   Nonprofit entities shall be exempt from payment of the fee for issuance
of the permit, but shall not be exempt from payment of the fee for processing
of the application for permit. (Ord. 364, 11-7-2022)
3-2A-4: MULTIPLE MOBILE FOOD SERVICE PERMITS REQUIREMENT:
A separate mobile food service permit shall be required for each individual
mobile food service unit being operated within the city limits regardless of
common ownership thereof. (Ord. 364, 11-7-2022)
3-2A-5: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
No mobile food service permit will be issued by the city to an applicant unless
and until the applicant satisfies the following conditions of issuance:
   A.   Provides to the city a copy of the applicant’s approved “application
for food or lodging establishment license” issued by the Oklahoma state
department of health.
   B.   Provides to the city a copy of the applicant’s current, valid Oklahoma
sales tax permit.
   C.   An applicant for issuance of a permit under the status of a nonprofit,
charitable or religious organization shall provide official written proof of
exemption from the requirement of collecting sales tax in lieu of the
requirement of a valid Oklahoma sales tax permit.
   D.   An applicant for issuance of a permit under the status of a nonprofit,
charitable or religious organization shall not be relieved of the obligation to
provide a copy of the applicant’s approved “application for food or lodging
establishment license” issued by the Oklahoma state department of health.
   E.   Provision to the city of a completed application for mobile food
service permit on the application form prescribed by the city.
   F.   Payment of the prescribed fees to the city for processing the
application for permit and for issuance of a mobile food service permit
pursuant to an approved application as set forth in Appendix A Schedule of Fees
& Charges” of this code.
   G.   Approval of the application for mobile food service permit by the city.
(Ord. 364, 11-7-2022)
3-2A-6: RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATIONS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Mobile food service operations shall be conducted in conformance with
the restrictions as set forth in this section.
      1.   No mobile food service may locate or conduct business operations
within areas designated by the city’s zoning code as a “residential district”
      2.   No mobile food service may locate or conduct business operations in
such a location or in such a manner as to unreasonably inhibit the flow of
traffic upon the city streets, public use of sidewalks, or public access to
alleys as determined in the discretion of the city or city or state law
enforcement personnel.
      3.   No mobile food service may locate or conduct business operations in
such a location or in such a manner as to inhibit the public access to public
parking as determined in the discretion of the city or city or state law
enforcement personnel.
      4.   No mobile food service may locate or conduct business operations in
such a location or in such a manner as to inhibit the public access to public
parking as determined in the discretion of the city or city or state law
enforcement personnel.
      5.   No mobile food service may locate or conduct business operations in
such a location or in such a manner as to pose a danger, risk or threat to the
public safety as determined in the discretion of the city or city or state law
enforcement personnel.
      6.   No mobile food service may locate or conduct business operations
upon private property located within the city without the permission of the
owner or other person in authority over the private property.
      7.   No customer shall be served on the street side of the mobile unit
All service must be on the curb side when the mobile unit is on or abutting a
public street.
      8.   No drive-through or drive-by customer service shall be provided or
permitted as part of a mobile food service as contemplated in this chapter.
(Ord. 364, 11-7-2022)
3-2A-7: REASONABLE CONDUCT OF OPERATIONS:
The conduct of the operation of the mobile food service shall be made and
conducted in such a manner as to not be unreasonably disruptive or offensive to
the peace, health, safety and welfare of the public. Loud music, disruptive
lights and other such activities as may disrupt or offend the peace, health,
safety and welfare of the public are prohibited. (Ord. 364, 11-7-2022)
3-2A-8: USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY AND PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
Use of public property and public rights of way for the conduct of mobile food
service operations shall be allowed as follows:
   A.   Use of public streets and rights of way is allowed when carried out in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Use of public property such as parks or other public areas may be
allowed when approved in advance by the city. (Ord. 364, 11-7-2022)
3-2A-9: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATIONS:
   A.   All mobile food service operations shall provide garbage receptacles
for customer use.
   B.   At the conclusion of business activities at a given location the mobile
food service vendor shall clean all the area surrounding his or her location of
all debris, trash and litter generated by the vendor’s business activities.
   C.   All mobile food service vendors preparing food by cooking, frying or
other means shall be equipped with at least one fire extinguisher with a
minimum rating of 2A-40-BC.
   D.   All electrical connections by mobile food service vendors shall fully
comply with requirements of the national electrical code (NEC). (Ord. 364, 11-
7-2022)
3-2A-10: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER DESIGNATION:
The city council shall designate an administrative officer or administrative
officers of the city whom shall be designated by the city council to be
possessed of the authority to carry out the powers, duties and authorities of
the city as set forth In this chapter. (Ord. 364, 11-7-2022)
CHAPTER 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND LOW POINT BEER
ARTICLE A. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Definitions
3-3A-2: Occupation Taxes Enumerated
3-3A-3: Expiration Date Of Occupation Tax
3-3A-4: Payment Of Tax Required; Display Receipt
3-3A-5: Report To State
3-3A-6: Certificate Of Zoning; Investigation
3-3A-7: State License; Compliance With State Law
3-3A-8: Restrictions Concerning Minors
3-3A-9: Sale To Certain Persons Prohibited
3-3A-10: Transportation Restricted
3-3A-11: Days And Hours Sales Prohibited
3-3A-12: Credit And Prizes Prohibited
3-3A-13: Delivery To Retail Stores On Holidays Prohibited
3-3A-14: Intoxicated Persons Not Permitted In Certain Businesses
3-3A-15: Purchase Restricted
3-3A-16: Possession And Carrying Restrictions
3-3A-17: Nudity Prohibited
3-3A-18: Drink Solicitation Prohibited
3-3A-19: State Law Made A Part Hereof
3-3A-20: Penalty
3-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions of terms used in this article shall be in conformity with those
provided in 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 506. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-1; amd. 2016
Code)
3-3A-2: OCCUPATION TAXES ENUMERATED:
   A.   Taxes Levied: There is hereby levied and assessed an annual occupation
tax on every business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages as
specifically enumerated herein and in the amount herein stated:
1. Brewer                  $1,250.00
2. Distiller               3,125.00
3. Winemaker               625.00
4. Oklahoma winemaker      75.00
5. Rectifier               3,125.00
6. Wholesaler              3,500.00
7. Class B wholesaler      625.00
8. Retail package store    50.00
9. Mixed beverage:
Initial                    200.00
Renewal                    100.00
10. Caterer:
Initial                    1,000.00
Renewal                    500.00
11. Special events per day 50.00
 
   B.   Brewer Or Class B Wholesaler: If a brewer or class B wholesaler also
holds a license from the state to manufacture or wholesale any low point beer,
then the occupation tax for such brewer or class B wholesaler shall be reduced
by seventy five percent (75%).
   C.   Copy Of State License Required: Any state licensee originally entering
upon any occupation herein listed shall pay the tax therefor at the office of
the city clerk on or before the date upon which he enters upon such occupation.
Said licensee shall provide a copy of his current state license before payment
of an occupation tax will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the
tax annually on or before June 30.
   D.   Proration Of Tax: The occupation tax subject to this section shall be
prorated on a monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins
operations.
   E.   Issuance, Posting Of Receipt: Upon payment of the said occupation tax,
the city clerk shall issue a receipt to said state licensee, which said
licensee shall post in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein he carries
on his occupation.
   F.   Penalty For Nonpayment: Any person who engages in any of the
occupations taxed by this article without paying said occupation tax imposed
therefor in advance of such operation, is guilty of an offense against the city
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate
offense. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-2; amd. Ord. 194, 8-1-1988; 2016 Code)
3-3A-3: EXPIRATION DATE OF OCCUPATION TAX:
All occupational tax receipts shall be valid for one year from the date of
issuance unless sooner revoked, suspended or surrendered. Provided, that a
special events occupational tax shall be valid for a period not to exceed ten
(10) consecutive days from the date occupational tax is paid. (1985 Code ch. 2
§ 1-3)
3-3A-4: PAYMENT OF TAX REQUIRED; DISPLAY RECEIPT:
   A.   Payment Of Tax: No brewer, distiller, winemaker, Oklahoma winemaker,
rectifier, wholesaler, class B wholesaler, mixed beverage retailer, caterer,
special liquor dispensing event, or retail package store shall do business in
the city until the occupation tax levied by this article shall have been paid
to the city clerk and receipt issued therefor. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-4)
   B.   Display Of Receipt: Any state licensee shall post his occupation tax
receipt in a conspicuous place in the premises wherein he carries on his
occupation. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-5)
3-3A-5: REPORT TO STATE:
The city clerk shall make an annual report to the ABLE commission, covering the
fiscal year, showing the number and class of licensees subject to the
occupation tax and the amount of money collected from said tax. (1985 Code ch.
2 § 1-6)
3-3A-6: CERTIFICATE OF ZONING; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Application; Investigation: Every applicant for a certificate of
compliance with the zoning, fire, health and safety codes of the city required
by 37 Oklahoma Statutes shall apply at the office of the city clerk by:
      1.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office; and
      2.   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
city clerk shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the
premises proposed for licensed operations comply with the provisions of the
zoning ordinance and any health, fire, building and other safety codes
applicable to it.
      3.   The city clerk shall act on all such applications within twenty (20)
days of receipt thereof. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-7)
   B.   Issuance Of Certification:
      1.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning
shall be issued to the ABLE commission. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-8)
      2.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable fire, safety, and health codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE commission. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-8;
amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   The above certificates of compliance shall be signed by the mayor.
      4.   A conditional certificate may be issued in instances wherein
conditions preclude immediate issuance of a certificate. For example, a
location with a building under construction must meet all conditions prior to
full certification. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-8)
3-3A-7: STATE LICENSE; COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
   A.   State License Required: No person, firm or corporation shall engage in
the sale, distribution, manufacture or bottling of any alcoholic beverages
within the city without first obtaining a license as required by the Oklahoma
alcoholic beverage control act of the state of Oklahoma. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-
9)
   B.   Compliance With State Law: No person shall own, operate, maintain or be
interested in any retail alcoholic beverage business which is located at a
place within the city in violation of the laws of the state of Oklahoma. (1985
Code ch. 2 § 1-10)
3-3A-8: RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING MINORS:
   A.   Sale To Minor: No person shall knowingly sell, deliver or furnish
alcoholic beverages, at any place within the city, to any person who is under
twenty one (21) years of age. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-11)
   B.   Misrepresentation Of Age: No person under twenty one (21) years of age
shall misrepresent his age in writing or present false documentation of age or
otherwise for the purpose of inducing any person to sell him alcoholic
beverages, nor shall any person under the age of twenty one (21) years purchase
or accept delivery of alcoholic beverages. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-12)
   C.   Employment Of Minors:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be employed
in the selling, manufacture, distribution or other handling of alcoholic
beverages. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-15)
      2.   No person shall employ or assist or aid in causing the employment of
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years at any place within the city,
in the selling, manufacture, distribution or other handling of alcoholic
beverages. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-16)
   D.   Minors Prohibited From Premises:
      1.   No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage outlet in the
city and no person employed therein shall permit any person under twenty one
(21) years of age to enter into, to remain within or to loiter about the
premises of such retail alcoholic beverage outlet. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-20)
      2.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall enter into,
remain within or loiter about the premises of any retail alcoholic beverage
store within the city. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-21)
3-3A-9: SALE TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
No person, at any place within the city, shall sell, deliver or knowingly
furnish alcoholic beverages to any intoxicated person or to any person who has
been adjudged mentally deficient. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-13; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3A-10: TRANSPORTATION RESTRICTED:
No person within the city shall transport in any vehicle upon any public
highway, street or alley any alcoholic beverage, unless such alcoholic beverage
is:
   A.   In an unopened container with seal unbroken and the original cap or
cork not removed from the container; or
   B.   In the trunk or other closed compartment or other container, out of
public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
(1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-14)
3-3A-11: DAYS AND HOURS SALES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Mixed Beverage Establishments: No alcoholic beverages may be sold,
dispensed, served or consumed on the premises of a mixed beverage, caterer,
public event, charitable event, special event or beer and wine licensee between
the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. Such sales
may also be prohibited:
      1.   On the first day of the week, commonly called Sunday; and
      2.   On Decoration or Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
   B.   Alcoholic Beverage Package Stores: No person shall open for business,
or sell or deliver alcoholic beverages to any person at a retail alcoholic
beverage package store at any time:
      1.   On New Year's Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth Of July, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day; or
      2.   On any other day other than between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday. (1985 Code ch. 2 §
1-17; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3A-12: CREDIT AND PRIZES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Credit: No person at any retail alcoholic beverage store in the city
shall sell any alcoholic beverage on credit. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-18)
   B.   Prizes: No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage outlet,
and no person employed therein, shall offer or furnish any prize, premium,
gift, "happy hour", or similar inducement to a consumer in connection with the
sale of alcoholic beverages. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-19)
3-3A-13: DELIVERY TO RETAIL STORES ON HOLIDAYS PROHIBITED:
No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages, and no officer, agent or employee
of such a dealer shall sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic beverage store
in the city any amount of spirits or wines on Saturday of any week, on Sunday
of any week, on New Year's Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth Of July, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-22; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3A-14: INTOXICATED PERSONS NOT PERMITTED IN CERTAIN BUSINESSES:
No person operating a cafe, restaurant, club or any place of recreation within
the city and no employee engaged in connection with the operation of such a
cafe, restaurant, club or place of recreation, whether or not a licensed mixed
alcoholic beverage dispenser, shall permit any person to be drunk or
intoxicated in said place of business. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-23)
3-3A-15: PURCHASE RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to purchase in the city from
anyone other than a duly licensed beverage dealer, any alcoholic beverage as
defined by the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage control act. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-
24)
3-3A-16: POSSESSION AND CARRYING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Possession In Public Place: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person to carry or possess on his person in a public place in the city not
licensed for retail sale of alcoholic beverages, any alcoholic beverage in a
container with the seal broken or the original cap or cork removed from the
container. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-25)
   B.   Carrying On Person In Public Place: It shall be unlawful for any person
to carry or possess on his person any alcoholic beverage in the city in a
public place not licensed for retail sale thereof, in such a manner that said
alcoholic beverage is exposed to public view, whether or not the seal has been
broken or the container opened. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-26)
   C.   Possession In Public Of Container Presumption Of Drinking: The
possession of alcoholic beverage on the person of any individual in the city,
other than in a licensed retail alcoholic beverage business, where the
container has been opened, the seal broken or the original cap or cork has been
removed, shall be a presumption of drinking alcoholic beverages in a public
place in the city. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-27)
   D.   Possession Without Payment Of Tax: It shall be unlawful and an offense
for any person to have in his possession more than one liter (1 l) of alcoholic
beverage as defined by the alcoholic beverage control act of the state of
Oklahoma, unless the state tax has been paid thereon or unless said person has
a valid bill of lading confirming said alcoholic beverage to a licensed
beverage dealer. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-28)
   E.   Possession By Certain Persons: It shall be unlawful and an offense for
any person under the age of twenty one (21) or of unsound mind or who is a
chronic alcoholic or any intoxicated person to have in his possession or under
his control in a public place in the city any liquid that may be used as a
beverage, containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol. (1985
Code ch. 2 § 1-29)
3-3A-17: NUDITY PROHIBITED:
No alcoholic beverage licensee in the city shall allow nudity or any state of
undress, for any purpose, nor shall he permit any person, male or female, to
exhibit, display or perform in such a state. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-30)
3-3A-18: DRINK SOLICITATION PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for the owner, operator or any employee of
a licensed mixed beverage business place to overtly solicit for the purpose of
selling alcoholic beverages. Any manner of communication sufficient to give a
signal to effect a sale shall be construed to meet the definition of
"soliciting". (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-31)
3-3A-19: STATE LAW MADE A PART HEREOF:
All provisions of law promulgated by the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage control
act, whether or not contained in this article, are made a part hereof as apply,
and shall be applicable in all instances. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 1-32)
3-3A-20: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 248, 11-4-2002)
ARTICLE B. LOW POINT BEER
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Definitions
3-3B-2: License Required; Fee
3-3B-3: Compliance With Law; License Expiration; Nontransferable
3-3B-4: Hours Of Sale
3-3B-5: Restrictions Concerning Minors
3-3B-6: Dancing Prohibited
3-3B-7: Gambling; Disorderly Conduct
3-3B-8: Possession Or Drinking In Public
3-3B-9: Transportation Restrictions
3-3B-10: Revocation Of License
3-3B-11: Penalty
3-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half of
one percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-tenths
percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or cereal
malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley
or other grain, malt or similar products.
RETAIL DEALER: Any person, firm, corporation, association or concessionaire who
sells, distributes or dispenses at retail any low point beer within the
corporate limits of the city, without regard to any place where such beverages
may be consumed or used. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any retail dealer, whether
permanent or temporary, to sell, distribute or dispense any low point beer
without having first received a city license as herein required. (1985 Code ch.
2 § 2-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   License Fee: There is hereby levied on each retail dealer in low point
beer within this city an annual license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) if he sells
the beverages in the original package for consumption off the premises; or if
he sells the beverage for consumption on and/or off the premises, an annual
license fee of twenty dollars ($20.00), which license fee shall be paid in
advance; provided, that a city license shall not be granted unless the
applicant already has a state license first to sell such beverage. (1985 Code
ch. 2 § 2-2; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3B-3: COMPLIANCE WITH LAW; LICENSE EXPIRATION; NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   Evidence Of State And/Or County Permits: No city license shall be
issued to any retail dealer by the city clerk without satisfactory evidence
that the applicant has obtained all state and/or county permits required by
law, and has in all other respects complied with the laws of Oklahoma relating
to the sale and distribution of low point beer.
   B.   Expiration Date: All such licenses shall expire on June 30.
   C.   License Nontransferable: No license shall be transferable. (1985 Code
ch. 2 § 2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3B-4: HOURS OF SALE:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation licensed to sell low point
beer to sell the same, for consumption on the premises, between the hours of
two o'clock (2:00) A.M. Sunday and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the following
Monday; and on other days of the week between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 2-6; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3B-5: RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING MINORS:
   A.   Employment: It is unlawful for any owner, manager, or operator of a
place where low point beer is sold for consumption on the premises, except an
eating place where the service of beverages is incidental to the main business
of serving food, to employ a person under twenty one (21) years of age to work
in such place. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 2-7; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Loitering: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating
or maintaining a place of business where low point beer is sold for consumption
on the premises or any person in charge thereof to permit any minor to loiter
or loaf, or to be or remain in or around such place of business; and it is
unlawful for any minor to loiter or loaf, or to be or remain in or around such
a place of business. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 2-10; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Sale And Purchase: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to sell, offer for sale, give away, procure for or otherwise dispense to, any
minor any low point beer; or for any minor to purchase, receive or procure any
low point beer. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 2-11; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3B-6: DANCING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any retail dealer operating a place of business where low
point beer is sold for consumption on the premises, or any person in charge of
such place, to permit dancing therein; and it is unlawful for any person to
dance in such a place. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 2-8; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3B-7: GAMBLING; DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of such a place to
permit therein gambling, betting, operation of a lottery; sale, furnishing or
drinking of intoxicating liquor; disorderly conduct; loud or disturbing
language, noise or music; profane language or any other violation of the laws
of the state or of the ordinances of the city; or for any person to engage in
any such activity or conduct in such place.
   B.   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of such a place to
permit therein fighting, boxing, wrestling, or other contests of physical
strength; or for any person to fight, box, wrestle, or engage in other contests
of physical strength in such place. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 2-9)
3-3B-8: POSSESSION OR DRINKING IN PUBLIC:
   A.   Possession: It is unlawful for any person, whether a minor or of age,
to carry or possess on his person any low point beer while such person is upon
any public street, alley or other public highway, or in any public building or
other public place within the city. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 2-12; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Drinking: It is unlawful for any person, whether a minor or of age, to
drink any low point beer while such person is upon any public street, alley or
other public highway, or in any public building or other public place within
the city. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 2-13; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3B-9: TRANSPORTATION RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley, any low point beer containing
more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol by weight except in the
original container which shall not have been opened and from which the original
can or seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened container be in the
rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment
in a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion. (1985 Code ch. 2 § 2-14; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3B-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city council shall have power, after public hearing, to revoke any license
granted hereunder for violation of law or ordinance by the license holder.
(1985 Code ch. 2 § 2-5)
3-3B-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 248, 11-4-2002)
CHAPTER 4
GARAGE AND YARD SALES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Permit Requirements; Fee
3-4-2: Conduct Of Sales
3-4-3: Violation; Penalty
3-4-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEE:
The following regulations and rates shall apply when holding a garage or yard
sale within the city limits:
   A.   Permit Required: There shall be no garage or yard sale held within the
city limits until such time as the issuance of a permit has occurred.
   B.   Permit Fee; Number Of Sales Limited: The first five (5) permits issued
to any individual for a specific address located within the city limits shall
be issued at no charge; after which, any permit issued to the same individual
for the same specific address located within the city limits shall be issued at
a charge of five dollars ($5.00) up to a total limit of ten (10), at which time
no other permit shall be issued the individual for a specific address in the
same calendar year. This limit of ten (10) shall apply to the address of the
sale regardless of the person seeking a garage or yard sale permit. It shall
also apply to the person's name regardless of the location of the sale.
   C.   Application For Permit: Residents of the city shall be required to
apply for a garage or yard sale permit at city hall in the office of the clerk.
   D.   Yearly Log Of Applications: The code enforcement officer, and/or in his
or her absence the city clerk, shall be required to keep a yearly log of all
residents who have applied for and been granted or rejected a garage or yard
sale permit. (Ord. 273, 7-6-2011, eff. 7-6-2011)
3-4-2: CONDUCT OF SALES:
   A.   Length Of Sale; Hours Per Day: The garage or yard sale shall last no
longer than three (3) consecutive days and may run only from the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
   B.   Display Of Goods Obstructing Roadway Or Sidewalk: The display of goods
for sale cannot be presented in a fashion so as to block or impede the flow of
traffic on roadways or recognized sidewalk areas in the city.
   C.   Waiting Period Between Sales: There shall be a two (2) week period
between garage or yard sales being held.
   D.   Display Of Permit: The permit shall be posted in such a manner and
location as to allow for drive by inspection by the city code enforcement
officer. (Ord. 273, 7-6-2011, eff. 7-6-2011)
3-4-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter shall be considered a misdemeanor offense and may
constitute the issuance of a citation by the police department or code
enforcement officer, and shall carry a fine of up to fifty dollars ($50.00)
and/or forfeiture of the violator's right to hold such sales in the future, or
both, whichever the municipal court deems fit. (Ord. 273, 7-6-2011, eff. 7-6-
2011)
CHAPTER 5
FARMERS MARKETS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Permitted Use And Regulations
3-5-3: Penalties And Enforcement
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
FARM       Fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, herbs, nuts, shell eggs, honey or other bee
PRODUCTS:  products, flowers, nursery stock, livestock food products (including meat,
           milk, cheese, and other dairy products), and fish.
           An [outdoor] market at a fixed location, open to the public, operated by a
           governmental agency, a nonprofit corporation, or one or more Producers, at
FARMERS’ which (a) at least [50] percent of the vendors sell Farm Products or Value-
MARKET:    added Farm Products and (b) at least [50] percent of the vendors who
           regularly participate during the market’s hours of operation are Producers,
           or family members or employees of Producers.
PRODUCER:  A person or entity that raises or produces Farm Products on land that the
           person or entity farms and owns, rents, or leases.
VALUE-     Any product processed by a Producer from a Farm Product, such as baked goods,
ADDED FARM jams, and jellies.
PRODUCT:
 
The definition of Farmers’ Market in the model requires that farmers’ markets
meet two standards. First, it requires that a certain percentage (50%) of the
vendors sell farm produce or products made from farm produce. This requirement
ensures that the preferential designation is reserved for those markets that
sell agricultural products. It distinguishes a farmers’ market from a “flea
market” or “swap meet” or other type of market, which may primarily sell
crafts, furniture, or other non-food items, or which sell foods other than
agricultural products. The vendor-based standard is a relatively simple one to
monitor and enforce.
Second, the definition requires that a percentage of the vendors are farmers
engaged in “direct marketing,” that is, farmers directly selling to consumers
the farm produce, or products made from farm produce, that the farmers grew
themselves.
A small farmers* market designation may help increase access to fresh produce
in neighborhoods that lack ready access to produce. (Ord. 332, 8-5-2019; amd.
Ord. 360, - -2022)
3-5-2: PERMITTED USE AND REGULATIONS:
Farmers’ Markets are a permitted use in the following zoning districts;
commercial, public, and city parks subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Compliance with all laws. All Farmers’ Markets and their vendors comply
with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the
operation, use, and enjoyment of the market premises;
   B.   Farmers’ Markets and their vendors receive all required operating and
health permits, licenses, and certificates of insurance, and these documents
(or copies) shall be in the possession of the vendor, as applicable, on the
site of the Farmers’ Market during all hours of operation;
   C.   Acceptance of payment from food assistance programs. For eligible goods
or products sold, all Farmers’ Markets and their vendors shall accept all forms
of payment - or shall allow a legitimate and duly authorized third party to
occupy space within the Farmers’ Market area to operate a redemption program -
by participants of federal, state, or local food assistance programs,
including, but not limited to, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
(SNAP); Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program;
and the Senior Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program, all in a manner allowed by,
and in conformance with, both federal and state laws and regulations as those
laws and regulations may be amended from time to time.
   D.   Market Manager. All Farmers’ Markets have a Market Manager authorized
to direct the operations of all vendors participating in the market on the site
of the market during all hours of operation. The Market Manager must obtain all
licenses and prior approval from the City Clerk’s office.
   E.   Parking. All Farmers’ Markets shall provide for a minimum of one
vehicle parking space for each vendor stall.
   F.   Waste. All Farmers’ Markets provide for composting, recycling, and
waste removal in accordance with all applicable codes. The Farmers’ Market
Manager is responsible for ensuring that the site is restored to a neat
condition by no later than the end of the Farmers’ Market day. (Ord. 332, 8-5-
2019; amd. Ord. 360, - -2022)
3-5-3: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Jay Code
Officer. In addition, any official may enforce this chapter. (Ord. 332, 8-5-
2019; amd. Ord. 360, - -2022)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Obstructing Health Officer
4-1-2: Expectorating On Streets
4-1-3: Throwing Medicine On Streets
4-1-4: Contagious Diseases; Quarantine
4-1-1: OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any
health officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
the city. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 4-6)
4-1-2: EXPECTORATING ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate upon any street, any
sidewalk of the city, or upon the floors or walls of any restaurant, post
office, public library, city hall or any other building used for public
purposes in the city. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 4-1)
4-1-3: THROWING MEDICINE ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to throw, leave or
deposit, or cause to be thrown, left or deposited upon any street, avenue,
alley, sidewalk in any of the parks or other public places, or on any private
property within the city any medicine of any kind or description whatsoever.
(1985 Code ch. 11 § 4-2)
4-1-4: CONTAGIOUS DISEASES; QUARANTINE:
   A.   Appearing In Public: It shall be unlawful for any person affected with
or exposed to any contagious or infectious disease to appear upon any street,
or in any public place so as to expose other persons to such disease. (1985
Code ch. 11 § 4-3)
   B.   Parent Responsibility For Children: It shall be unlawful for any
parent, guardian or person having charge of any child or children to attend any
gathering of people, or to appear upon any street, or in a public place in the
city while affected with or exposed to any contagious or infectious disease, or
in any other manner so as to expose other persons to such disease. (1985 Code
ch. 11 § 4-4)
   C.   Order Of Quarantine: It shall be unlawful for any person, having been
lawfully ordered by health officers to be detained in quarantine and not having
been discharged therefrom, to leave the quarantine ground, or wilfully violate
any quarantine regulation thereof; and it shall be unlawful for any person to
enter or go upon any grounds or premises under quarantine without first having
obtained the permission of the health officer to do so. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 4-
5)
   D.   Quarantine Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully
violate or refuse or fail to comply with any lawful order, direction,
prohibition, rule or regulation of any officer charged with enforcement of such
order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 4-7)
   E.   Tearing Down Quarantine Notice Or Flag: It shall be unlawful for any
person to tear down, remove, deface, mutilate or destroy any order, notice or
flag that may be posted or displayed by the health officer of the city. (1985
Code ch. 11 § 4-8)
   F.   Unlawful To Refuse To Be Confined: It shall be unlawful for any person,
ordered to be removed to, or to be confined in, any pesthouse or quarantined
enclosure, to neglect or refuse to be so removed or confined, and every day of
such neglect or refusal shall constitute a separate offense. (1985 Code ch. 11
§ 4-9)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisances Defined
4-2-2: Persons Responsible
4-2-3: Time Does Not Legalize
4-2-4: Remedies Against Nuisances
4-2-5: Authority To Define And Summarily Abate
4-2-6: Nuisances Enumerated
4-2-7: Public Health Nuisances; Abatement
4-2-8: Procedures Cumulative
4-2-9: Penalty
4-2-10: Fireworks
4-2-1: NUISANCES DEFINED:
   A.   Nuisance Defined: A nuisance is unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to
perform a duty, or is any thing or condition, which either:
      1.   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any public park, square, street, or other public
property; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   B.   Public Nuisance: A public nuisance is one which affects at the same
time an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal.
   C.   Private Nuisance: Every nuisance not included in subsection B of this
section is a private nuisance. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 1-1)
4-2-2: PERSONS RESPONSIBLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it. (1985 Code ch. 13
§ 1-2)
4-2-3: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 1-3)
4-2-4: REMEDIES AGAINST NUISANCES:
   A.   Public: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action;
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By a person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section
12;
         b.   By the city in accordance with this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 13 §
1-4)
   B.   Private: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action;
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections 14
and 15;
         b.   By the city in accordance with this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 13 §
1-5)
4-2-5: AUTHORITY TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE:
   A.   As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the city has power to
determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate
limits and, for the protection of the public health, the public parks, and the
public water supply, outside of its corporate limit.
   B.   Whenever it is practical to do so, the city has power summarily to
abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner and an opportunity for him to
be heard, if this can be done. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 1-6)
4-2-6: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   A.   Enumeration: Whatever is injurious to the senses, or an obstruction to
the free use of property, so as essentially to interfere with the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance. In addition to other public
nuisances declared by other sections of this code, the following are hereby
declared to be nuisances:
      1.   The sale, or offering for sale, of unwholesome food or drink; or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offering are made.
      2.   All diseased animals running at large.
      3.   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene films,
videotapes, pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or
objects; or the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or
distributed. (For purposes of definition, "obscene" shall be construed to mean
any depiction or exhibition of the human body in a state of undress in such
fashion or manner as to excite or inflame sexual passion or emotion.)
      4.   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards, or otherwise, and all gambling devices, slot machines,
punchboards or any other games of chance.
      5.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse, or other immoral acts are practiced.
      6.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law or
ordinances are carried on.
      7.   All ponds and pools of stagnant water.
      8.   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease.
      9.   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises.
      10.   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially and unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others.
      11.   Any use of a street or sidewalk or property abutting thereto, which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance.
      12.   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to
fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk.
      13.   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies, or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      14.   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs; and the premises on which such exists.
      15.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay, or other condition.
      16.   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      17.   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety.
      18.   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare.
      19.   Keeping Vehicles:
         a.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to deposit, store,
keep or permit to be deposited, stored or kept upon public or private property,
in the open, a dismantled, unserviceable, inoperable, junked or abandoned
vehicle or any vehicle legally or physically incapable of being operated, for a
period exceeding one hundred sixty eight (168) hours, unless such vehicle is
completely enclosed within a building, or stored in connection with a business
lawfully established pursuant to the zoning ordinances of the city, or stored
on property lawfully designated under the zoning ordinances of the city as a
place where such vehicles may be stored.
         b.   Failure to remove a vehicle ten (10) days after written notice by
the city will result in a one hundred fifty dollar ($150.00) fine, made payable
to the city of Jay.
         c.   If after the notice described in this section the vehicle shall
remain in violation of this ordinance for a period of thirty (30) days from the
first written notice the vehicle will be towed at the owner’s expense.
      20.   Carcasses of animals not disposed of within twenty four (24) hours
after death as provided by law.
      21.   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities.
      22.   The use of a common drinking cup or roller towel.
      23.   The distribution of samples of medicines or drugs unless the
samples are placed in the hands of an adult patient by a licensed physician.
      24.   The public use of profane or obscene language.
      25.   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks twenty four (24)
hours after the snow and ice has ceased being deposited thereon.
      26.   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons from having a clear view of traffic approaching an intersection from
cross streets in sufficient time to bring a motor vehicle driven at a legal
speed to a full stop before the intersection is reached.
      27.   All limbs of trees which are less than eight feet (8') above the
surface of any public sidewalk or street.
      28.   All wires which are strung less than fifteen feet (15') above the
surface of the ground.
      29.   All buildings, walls and other structures which have been damaged
by fire, decay or otherwise to an extent exceeding reasonable safety and which
are so situated as to endanger the safety of the public.
      30.   All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner or in any amount other than as permitted by ordinance and
the laws of the state of Oklahoma.
      31.   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the
public of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under such
conditions as are provided by state law or this code.
      32.   All buildings and all alterations to buildings made or erected
within the fire limits as established by ordinance in violation of the
ordinances concerning manner and materials of construction.
      33.   All hanging signs, awnings and other structures over the streets or
sidewalks so situated or constructed as to endanger public safety.
   B.   Enumeration Cumulative: The above enumeration of certain public
nuisances shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or
ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more
specific terms.
(1985 Code ch. 13 § 1-7; amd. Ord. 338, 9-3-2019; Ord. 354, 11-2-2020)
4-2-7: PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Order Abatement:
      1.   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
1011, the health officer shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of
any private premises in the city to remove from such premises, at his own
expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the
breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within
twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as may be reasonable, and a
failure to do so shall constitute an offense. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 10-1; amd.
2016 Code)
      2.   Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the
owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the health
officer or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual
place of abode of the owner, occupant, or agent, if known and within the state.
      3.   If the premises is unoccupied and the residence of the owner,
occupant, or agent is unknown, or is without the state, the order may be served
by posting a copy thereof on the premises, or by publication in at least one
issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the city.
   B.   Failure To Comply; Abatement By City; Cost Assessment: If the order is
not complied with, the health officer may cause the order to be executed and
complied with, and the cost thereof shall be certified to the city clerk, and
the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be added to the water bill
or other city utility bill of the water system or such other utility service.
The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it is added,
and shall become due and payable, and be subject to the same regulations
relating to delinquency in payment, as the utility bill itself. If such owner
or occupant is not a user of any city utility service, such cost, after
certification to the city clerk, may be collected in any manner in which way
other debt due may be collected.
   C.   Procedures For Abatement: Procedures for abating nuisances prescribed
hereinabove is in addition to any other procedures authorized by law or
ordinance for abating public nuisances. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 10-1)
4-2-8: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other; and
the city may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating
any particular nuisance. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 9-1)
4-2-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance or
offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any such
provision, or who fails to do any act when such provision declares such failure
to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, or who violates any legal
order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, or who maintains any
nuisance as defined in this chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 248, 11-4-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
4-2-10: FIREWORKS:
   A.   The legal use, ignition or discharge of fireworks within the corporate
limits of the City of Jay shall be restricted and limited to the following
designated dates and times. The use, ignition or discharge of fireworks within
the corporate limits of the City of Jay at dates and times not herein specified
shall be prohibited:
      1.   June 15 through the Saturday following July 4 when the 4th of July
falls on a weekday;
      2.   11:55 P.M. until 12:10 A.M. on July 4th;
      3.   Between the hours of nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:
00) P.M. during weekdays of those dates falling in the time period prescribed
in paragraph 1 hereof;
      4.   Between the hours of nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. and eleven o’clock
(11:00) P.M. Friday and Saturday of those dates falling in the time period
prescribed in paragraph 1 hereof;
      5.   Between the hours of twelve o’clock (12:00) A.M. and one o’clock (1:
00) A.M. on January 1 (New Year’s).
   B.   Residents are permitted to use, ignite, or discharge consumer fireworks
on their own property or property belonging to another person only with the
permission of the property owner during the permitted times set forth in
paragraph A hereof. The fireworks must land on the property from which they
were used, ignited, or discharged or upon the property from which permission
was obtained. No person may use, ignite, or discharge consumer fireworks in a
manner which causes them to land upon property owned or occupied by another
person from which permission was not obtained.
   C.   Persons may use, ignite, or discharge fireworks on a public street
during the time periods set forth in paragraph A hereof. Any person utilizing a
public street under this paragraph shall cleanup and remove all trash or other
debris resulting from the use immediately upon ceasing the use, and in no event
shall such trash or other debris be allowed to remain upon the street or public
right-of-way for a period of time of 2 hours or more.
   D.   No person may use, ignite, or discharge consumer fireworks or fireworks
in any public park or public area, or upon other property owned, possessed or
controlled by the city of Jay, Oklahoma.
   E.   Exceptions: City sponsored or sanctioned public fireworks displays may
be excepted from the requirements set forth herein upon such terms and
conditions as may be pre-approved for the event by the City Council. (Ord. 335,
7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 358, 4-5-2021)
ARTICLE A. ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Person Defined
4-2A-2: Notice To Abate Nuisance
4-2A-3: Contents Of Notice
4-2A-4: Method Of Service
4-2A-5: Abatement By City
4-2A-6: Collection Of Cost Of Abatement
4-2A-7: General Liability
4-2A-8: Request For Hearing And Appeal
4-2A-9: Abatement By Suit In District Court
4-2A-10: Nuisance Unlawful
4-2A-1: PERSON DEFINED:
"Person" includes, for the purpose of this article, any individual, firm,
corporation, trust, and any other organized group or any government. (1985 Code
ch. 13 § 2-1)
4-2A-2: NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE:
Whenever the mayor, or such other officer as provided by law finds that a
nuisance exists, he shall cause to be served upon the owner, agent or occupant
of the property on which the nuisance is located, or upon the person causing or
maintaining the nuisance, a written notice to abate or to request a hearing as
provided in section
4-2A-8 of this article. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 2-1)
4-2A-3: CONTENTS OF NOTICE:
The notice to abate shall contain:
   A.   An order to abate the nuisance or request a hearing as provided by
section
4-2A-8 of this article within a stated time which shall be a reasonable time
under the circumstances.
   B.   Location of nuisance if stationary.
   C.   Description of what constitutes the nuisance.
   D.   Statement of act or acts necessary to abate the nuisance.
   E.   Statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no request
for hearing is made within the time prescribed, the city will abate it and
assess the cost against such person.
   Notice to Abate Nuisances
To: (Name and address of owner, agent or occupant of the property on which the
nuisance is located, or the person causing or maintaining the nuisance.
You are hereby notified to abate the nuisance existing at                     
(location of nuisance)                 or file written request for a hearing
with the undersigned officer within        (hours or days)        from service
of this notice.
The nuisance consists of (describe the nuisance)                             ,
and shall be abated by                 (state action necessary to abate the
particular nuisance)                .
In the event you fail to abate or cause to be abated the above nuisance as
directed, the chief of police and other authorized officials will take such
steps as necessary to abate or cause to be abated the nuisance and the costs
will be assessed against you as provided by law.
         The City Of Jay, Oklahoma
                                           
         Mayor
(1985 Code ch. 13 § 2-2)
4-2A-4: METHOD OF SERVICE:
All such notices shall be served by the chief of police or other officer or
some duly authorized person, by delivering to the person a written copy if he
can be found, or in case he cannot be found, then by leaving posted on the door
or other convenient and conspicuous place of the premises and by mailing to the
last known address of the person to be served. In event such address is not
known, then the posting alone shall be sufficient. In any event, when the
person cannot be personally served with the notice, the authority serving the
notice shall assume that the person so notified has requested a hearing and all
further proceedings conducted as if a request for hearing has been filed. (1985
Code ch. 13 § 2-3)
4-2A-5: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
   A.   If the person so notified neglects or fails to abate the nuisance as
directed, the mayor, or other officer initiating the notice, may cause the
nuisance to be abated, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
   B.   The expense account shall be fully itemized, verified and filed with
the city clerk. Such expenses shall be paid by the city. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 2-
4)
4-2A-6: COLLECTION OF COST OF ABATEMENT:
The city clerk shall mail a statement of the total cost to the person failing
to abide by the notice to abate and if the amount shown by the statement has
not been paid within one month, he shall certify the costs to the proper county
officer along with the other lists of certified assessments to be assessed
against the property of the party to be paid as other taxes are paid. (1985
Code ch. 13 § 2-5)
4-2A-7: GENERAL LIABILITY:
In addition to all other provisions of this article, the party who fails or
refuses to abate and remove a nuisance upon orders of the proper city officials
shall be and remain civilly liable for all costs to which the city is put,
which may be recovered in a civil action for that purpose. (1985 Code ch. 13 §
2-6)
4-2A-8: REQUEST FOR HEARING AND APPEAL:
   A.   Request In Writing: Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the mayor as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a hearing
must be made in writing and delivered to the mayor within the time stated in
the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance exists and it
must be abated as ordered.
   B.   Findings; Hearing And Appeal: At the conclusion of the hearing, the
mayor shall render a written decision as to whether a nuisance exists. If he
finds that a nuisance exists, he must order it abated within an additional time
which must be reasonable under the circumstances and advise the person of his
right immediately filing a written notice with the mayor. This appeal will be
heard before the mayor and city council at a time and place fixed by the
council. The findings of the mayor and city council shall be conclusive and, if
a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated within a time
reasonable under the circumstances. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 2-7)
4-2A-9: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the city
may bring suit in the district court of the county as provided in 50 Oklahoma
Statutes section 17. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 2-8)
4-2A-10: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person (owner, lessee, or other) to create or maintain a
nuisance within the city, or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under
his control within the city. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 2-9)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS AND TRASH
SECTION:
4-3-1: Legislative Intent
4-3-2: Trash Defined; Weed Height Restricted
4-3-3: Report Conditions Of Trash Or Weeds
4-3-4: Notice To Owner
4-3-5: Hearing By Council; Order To Clean Property
4-3-6: Work Done By City Employees Or By Contract
4-3-7: Cost Determination And Assessment
4-3-8: Failure To Pay Costs; Lien Against Property
4-3-9: Placement Of Yard Clippings Or Debris On Streets, Sidewalks Or Public
Access Ways
4-3-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
It is hereby declared the legislative intent of the council to conform hereby
to the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-111, as amended. (1985
Code ch. 13 § 3-1; amd. 2016 Code)
4-3-2: TRASH DEFINED; WEED HEIGHT RESTRICTED:
   A.   Trash: As used in this chapter, the word "trash" extends to the widest
sense of that term, and includes, but without limitation upon any other
meaning, refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
offal, rubbish, inoperative or wrecked vehicles, waste, and useless or unused
or uncared for matter of all kinds, whether solid or liquid in form.
   B.   Weeds And Grass: Weeds or grass at any length in excess of twelve
inches (12") shall be considered unacceptable. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 3-10)
4-3-3: REPORT CONDITIONS OF TRASH OR WEEDS:
   A.   Report To Mayor: Any officer or employee of the city who discovers an
accumulation of trash or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these
conditions, upon any premises within the limits of the city by reason of which
such premises appear to him to be:
      1.   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community;
      2.   A hazard to traffic;
      3.   A fire hazard to the danger of property; or
      4.   Any two (2) or more of such results in combination;
shall report such condition to the mayor. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 3-2)
   B.   Report Placed On Council Agenda:
      1.   Upon receiving the report prescribed by subsection A of this
section, or upon receipt of equivalent information from any reliable source,
the mayor shall place upon the agenda of the city council for hearing and
consideration at an appropriate date of meeting thereof, such as will permit
giving the notices prescribed by statutory law, the questions whether such
premises, by reason of the conditions specified, are detrimental to the health,
benefit, and welfare of the public community, or a hazard to traffic, or a fire
hazard to the danger of property, or any two (2) or more of such results in
combination.
      2.   The owner of such property may give his consent, in writing,
authorizing the removal of trash or mowing of weeds and grass, by the city or
its authorized contract for such purpose. By giving such consent, the owner
waives the right to a hearing by the city council. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 3-3)
4-3-4: NOTICE TO OWNER:
   A.   Issuance Of Notice By Mail Or Posting: Forthwith, and at least ten (10)
days prior to the hearing, the mayor or designated employee, shall give written
notice of such hearing by posting upon the premises and forwarding a copy
thereof by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the owner of such
property at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the office of
the county treasurer. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 3-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Service Of Notice: The service of all notices prescribed by this
chapter shall be evidenced by the return of the officer making such service,
certified in his official capacity, and filed in the office of the city clerk.
(1985 Code ch. 13 § 3-8)
4-3-5: HEARING BY COUNCIL; ORDER TO CLEAN PROPERTY:
Upon the date specified in such notice, the city council shall hear the matter
and shall receive information thereon, including anything which may be
presented by the owner of the premises, personally or by agent or attorney. If
it determines that the conditions specified in subsection
4-3-3A of this chapter exist upon such premises, it shall order the property to
be cleaned of trash or the weeds and grass cut or mowed or both cleaning and
cutting and mowing if necessary to abate the conditions found to exist. (1985
Code ch. 13 § 3-5)
4-3-6: WORK DONE BY CITY EMPLOYEES OR BY CONTRACT:
The work ordered to be performed under section
4-3-5 of this chapter may be done by the employees of the city under
supervision of the mayor, or it may be let by contract to the lowest and best
bidder, after appropriate notice, in the manner for letting other contracts by
public bid. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 3-6)
4-3-7: COST DETERMINATION AND ASSESSMENT:
Upon the completion of the work ordered to be performed under section
4-3-5 of this chapter, the mayor shall report the cost thereof to the city
council. Such report shall be itemized as to each tract, as for labor,
machinery, rental or depreciation, fuel and supplies, cost of repair, and after
receiving appropriate information, shall determine the total actual costs of
the work and shall direct the city clerk to forward a statement, and demand
payment thereof, by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the owner
of the property at the address shown by the current tax rolls in the office of
the county treasurer. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 3-7)
4-3-8: FAILURE TO PAY COSTS; LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY:
If the costs of the work performed under this chapter are not paid within
thirty (30) days from the date of mailing the notice prescribed by section
4-3-7 of this chapter, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of such costs, plus interest thereon, to the county treasurer to be
levied upon the property and to be collected by the county treasurer in the
manner prescribed by the laws of the state. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 3-9; amd. 2016
Code)
4-3-9: PLACEMENT OF YARD CLIPPINGS OR DEBRIS ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS OR PUBLIC
ACCESS WAYS:
   A.   Offense Specified: It shall be unlawful for any property owner, tenant,
person conducting lawn services or other person acting as a caretaker of
property to cause or knowingly allow grass and other yard clippings and debris
to be placed upon, accumulate or remain on city streets, alleys, sidewalks, or
public access ways.
   B.   Penalty Prescribed: Any person found to be in violation of this Section
shall be guilty of the offense proscribed herein and shall be subject to fine
and court costs not to exceed the maximum fine and costs as stated in Section
1-4-1 of the Jay City Code.
   C.   Subsequent Offenses: Each 24 hour day such condition is allowed to
exist following the day the initial citation is issued shall constitute a new
offense for which offense the person violating this provision shall be subject
to further fines and costs as prescribed in this section for violation hereof.
   D.   Public Nuisance/Summary Abatement:
      1.   Nuisance Condition: The accumulation of grass and other yard
clippings and debris on city streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public access ways
shall be deemed a public nuisance dangerous and destructive to the public
health, safety and welfare within the City of Jay subject to summary abatement
by the said City.
      2.   Abatement By City/Costs To Responsible Party: Where such nuisance
condition described herein continues to exist for a period of time of more than
twenty-four hours (24 hours) following issuance of a citation for the offense,
the City of Jay may act to have the grass and/or other yard clippings and/or
debris removed and condition abated and the costs incurred for said abatement
by the City shall be collected as additional costs in the municipal court
proceeding against the person found guilty of the offense herein proscribed.
(Ord. 363, 11-7-2022)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES IN GENERAL; PENALTY
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Attempts To Commit An Offense
5-1A-2: Aiding In An Offense
5-1A-3: Penalty
5-1A-1: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against any provision of this
code, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself. (2016 Code)
5-1A-2: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling or aiding the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by this code, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or misdemeanor, and
punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (2016 Code)
5-1A-3: PENALTY:
Except in cases where a different punishment is now or may hereafter be
prescribed by ordinance, any person, firm or corporation who commits an offense
or misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's continuation of an offense or misdemeanor and
shall be deemed a separate offense or misdemeanor, and shall be punishable as
such. (Ord. 248, 11-4-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST DECENCY, MORALITY
AND PUBLIC POLICY
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Gambling And Related Offenses
5-1B-2: Harmful Deception; Extortion
5-1B-3: Offenses Related To Liquor, Drugs Or Intoxicants
5-1B-4: False Or Bogus Checks
5-1B-5: Vagrancy
5-1B-6: Begging Prohibited
5-1B-7: Loitering Around Schools, Public Buildings After Midnight
5-1B-8: Immoral Or Indecent Conduct
5-1B-9: Offenses Related To Prostitution
5-1B-1: GAMBLING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Gambling Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, or an agent or employee thereof, to play, to open or cause to be
opened, or to operate, carry on, or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game,
or any device, for money, checks, chips, credit, or any other thing of value;
to set up, operate, or permit to be operated, any slot machine or other device
whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit, or any other things of value are
played, when the act of playing the same results in a gain or loss to the party
playing; or to gamble knowingly in any other manner; or knowingly to permit his
or its premises, house, lot or other property to be used in connection with, or
for, any act declared unlawful in this subsection.
   B.   Loitering Near Places Where Persons Are Gambling: It is unlawful for
any person to loiter about in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons
are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a slot machine or other
device or otherwise.
   C.   Gaming, Betting, Staking And Booking: It shall be unlawful to play at
any game for any sum of money or other property of any value, to make any bet
or wager for money or other property of value; to record or register bets or
wagers or sell pools on the results of any trial or contest of skill, speed or
power of endurance of man or beast; or in the result of any political
nomination or election, or to receive as custodian or depository, for hire or
reward, money, property or thing of value staked, wagered or bet on the above
results.
   D.   Keeping Gambling House: It shall be unlawful to keep a house, shop or
place resorted to for the purpose of gambling, or knowingly to permit or suffer
any person in any house, shop or other place under the permitted control or
care to play at cards, dice, faro, roulette, punchboard, slot machine or other
game for money or other thing of value.
   E.   Possession Of Gambling Device: It shall be unlawful intentionally to
have, keep or hold in possession or control, except under proceedings to
destroy the same, any roulette wheel, poker table, punchboard or any other
machines or equipment used for gambling, or any slot machine or device with an
element of chance attending such operation. (2016 Code)
5-1B-2: HARMFUL DECEPTION; EXTORTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another (whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise) when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or a
third party, or results in or contributes to benefit of the deceiver. (2016
Code)
5-1B-3: OFFENSES RELATED TO LIQUOR, DRUGS OR INTOXICANTS:
   A.   Drunkenness And Drinking In Public Place: It is unlawful for any person
drunk or in a state of intoxication to appear or to be upon or in any street,
alley, place of business, or other public place or for any person to drink
intoxicating liquor or beverage upon or in any street, alley, or other public
place.
   B.   Offenses Relating To Controlled Dangerous Substances: It shall be
unlawful for any person under the influence of any narcotic or other controlled
dangerous substance to appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of
business or other public place within the city; or for any person to use any
narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance upon or in any street, alley,
place of business or other public place within the city; or for any person to
use any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance in any place within
the city, except as legally prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in
the state; or for any person to loiter about a place where any narcotic or
other controlled dangerous substance is sold or furnished illegally; or for any
person to sell or furnish illegally to another person any narcotic or other
controlled dangerous substance.
   C.   Consuming Or Inhaling Intoxicants In Public Places: It shall be
unlawful for any person to, in any public place, or in or upon any vehicle
commonly used for the transportation of passengers, or in or about any depot,
platform, waiting station or room, drink or otherwise consume any intoxicating
liquor unless authorized by the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage control act,
intoxicating substance, or intoxicating compound of any kind, or inhale glue,
paint or other intoxicating substance, or to be drunk or intoxicated in any
public or private road, or in any vehicle commonly used for the transportation
of passengers, or any public place or building, or at any public gathering,
from drinking or consuming such intoxicating liquor, intoxicating substance or
intoxicating compound or from inhalation of glue, paint or other intoxicating
substance, or to be drunk or intoxicated from any cause and to disturb the
peace of any person. (2016 Code)
5-1B-4: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
   A.   The term "false or bogus check or checks" shall include checks or
orders, including those converted to electronic fund transfer, which are not
honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same or because
the check or order was drawn on a closed account or on a nonexistent account
when such checks or orders are given:
      1.   In exchange for money or property;
      2.   In exchange for any benefit or thing of value;
      3.   As a down payment for the purchase of any item of which the
purchaser is taking immediate possession, as against the maker or drawer
thereof; or
      4.   As payment made to a landlord under a lease or rental agreement.
   B.   The making, drawing, uttering, or delivering of a check, draft, or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit
with, such bank or other depository; provided, such maker or drawer shall not
have paid the drawee thereof the amount due thereon, together with the protest
fees, within five (5) days from the date the same is presented for payment; and
provided, further, that the check or order is presented for payment within
thirty (30) days after same is delivered and accepted.
   C.   A check offered for the purchase of goods or livestock that is refused
by a drawee shall not be considered to be an extension of credit by the seller
of goods or livestock to the maker or drawer of the check.
   D.   A check or order offered to a merchant in payment on an open account of
the maker with the merchant shall mean "a check or order given in exchange for
a benefit or thing of value", notwithstanding that the merchant may debit the
account of the maker or impose other charges pursuant to applicable law in the
event the check or order is not honored. (2016 Code)
5-1B-5: VAGRANCY:
   A.   Prohibition; Definition: It is unlawful to be a vagrant within the
limits of the city. For the purpose of this subsection, a "vagrant" means any
person who loiters or remains in or wanders about a public or private place for
any of the following purposes:
      1.   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      2.   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      3.   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
      4.   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
      5.   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      6.   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms; provided, that this
subsection shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
or charitable organizations with the authorization of such organizations; or
      7.   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
   B.   Vagrancy Unlawful; Penalty: It is unlawful for any person to be a
vagrant, and any person who is a vagrant shall be punished as provided by
section
5-1A-3 of this chapter. (2016 Code)
5-1B-6: BEGGING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to beg alms from any person, organization, or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need. (2016 Code)
5-1B-7: LOITERING AROUND SCHOOLS, PUBLIC BUILDINGS AFTER MIDNIGHT:
It is unlawful for a person to loiter on or within three hundred feet (300') of
the premises of a public or private school, or in or about any other public
building between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and sunrise.
(2016 Code)
5-1B-8: IMMORAL OR INDECENT CONDUCT:
   A.   Immoral Conduct, Consorting, Loitering: It is unlawful for any person
to engage in illicit sexual intercourse or any other immoral act, or knowingly
to consort with a prostitute or other person of immoral vocation, or to consort
with another for an immoral purpose, whether in a public or private place, or
to loiter about a house or place of prostitution or a house or place devoted to
lewd or immoral acts.
   B.   Indecent Performance: No entertainment may be conducted where an
entertainment license is required in which any person participating directly or
indirectly sings or speaks any obscene words, or performs any lewd or indecent
acts.
   C.   Indecent Printing:
      1.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful knowingly or wilfully to
manufacture, print, publish, sell, advertise, offer for sale, show, lend,
deliver, carry, distribute, circulate, give, buy, procure, receive or have in
one's possession with the intent to make any of the above transactions, any
obscene, lewd, indecent, lascivious or filthy book, pamphlet, paper, drawing,
lithograph, engraving, print, picture, photograph, writing, card, mode, cast or
phonograph record, or any instrument or article of indecent or immoral use
which would manifestly tend to corrupt the morals of youth or others.
      2.   Immoral Influence Of Minors: It shall be unlawful to sell, lend,
give away or show, or have in one's possession with intent to make any of the
transactions listed herein, to or with any minor, any book, pamphlet, magazine,
newspaper, story paper or other paper devoted to the publication of, or
principally made up of, criminal news, police reports or accounts of criminal
deeds, or pictures and stories of immoral deeds, lust or crime; or to exhibit
upon any street or highway, or in any place within the view, or which may be
within the view of any minor, any of the above described articles; or to use or
employ any minor to give away, sell or distribute, or having the care, custody
or control of any minor to permit him to sell, give away or distribute any such
articles. (2016 Code)
5-1B-9: OFFENSES RELATED TO PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Prostitution: It is unlawful for any person to offer, submit, or give
himself or herself to lewd or immoral use, such as illicit sexual intercourse,
or to engage in any lewd or immoral act for money or any other thing of value.
   B.   Keeping House Of Prostitution: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, or any agent or employee thereof, to keep or assist in keeping a
house of prostitution or a house or place where persons meet or assemble for
illicit sexual intercourse or for any other lewd or immoral purpose; or
knowingly to permit a prostitute or other person of an immoral vocation to
become or remain a guest in a hotel or rooming house.
   C.   Residing In House Of Prostitution: It is unlawful for any person to be
an inmate or resident of a house of prostitution or of a house or place devoted
to lewd or immoral acts.
   D.   Procuring For Prostitute: It is unlawful for any person to act as a
procurer for any house or place of prostitution or for any prostitute or other
person engaged in an immoral vocation, or to procure, assist in procuring, or
to attempt to procure any person for another for illicit sexual intercourse or
for any other immoral purpose. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE, PERSONS
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Assault And Battery
5-1C-2: Disturbing The Peace
5-1C-3: Fighting
5-1C-4: Firearms And Weapons
5-1C-5: Abandoned Refrigerators Or Similar Containers
5-1C-6: Stench Bombs
5-1C-7: Unlawful Assembly Or Riot
5-1C-8: Congregating On Sidewalk
5-1C-9: Disturbing Public Assemblies
5-1C-10: Loud Noise
5-1C-11: Displaying Insulting Signs
5-1C-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   An assault is any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or
violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   B.   A battery is any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another.
   C.   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery, and any
person committing an assault or an assault and battery, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (2016 Code)
5-1C-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to make or incite any disturbance in a place of
business, or at any election or public meeting, or any other place where
citizens are peaceably and lawfully assembled.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of another or others
by violent, obstreperous, or improper conduct or carriage, by loud or unusual
noise, or by unseemly, obscene, offensive, or abusive language; or to insult
another or others by such conduct or language. (2016 Code)
5-1C-3: FIGHTING:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons voluntarily or by agreement to
engage in any fight, or use any blows or violence toward each other in an angry
or quarrelsome manner, in any public place to the disturbance of others. (2016
Code)
5-1C-4: FIREARMS AND WEAPONS:
   A.   Discharging Firearms: It shall be unlawful to discharge rifles,
shotguns, revolvers, pistols, guns or firearms of any kind within the city
limits.
   B.   Carrying Concealed Weapons: It shall be unlawful to carry concealed or
dangerous weapons in the city limits except when permitted by the laws of the
state of Oklahoma. (2016 Code)
5-1C-5: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS OR SIMILAR CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful to place, or to allow to be placed, any discarded,
abandoned, unattended or used refrigerator, icebox or similar container of a
capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more equipped with an
airtight door or lid, snap locks or other locking device which cannot be
released from the inside, in a location accessible to children, either outside
any building or dwelling or within an unoccupied or abandoned building,
dwelling or other structure under his or their control, without first having
removed the door, lid or locking device. This provision applies equally to the
owner of any such refrigerator, icebox or similar container and to the owner or
occupant of the premises where the hazard is permitted to remain. (2016 Code)
5-1C-6: STENCH BOMBS:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful to throw, drop, pour, explode,
deposit, release, discharge, or expose any stench bomb or tear bomb, or any
liquid, gaseous or solid substance or matter of any kind that is injurious to
persons or property, that is nauseous, sickening, irritating or offensive to
any of the senses in, on or about any theater, restaurant, car, structure,
place of business or amusement or any place of public assemblage, or to attempt
to do any of these acts, or to prepare or possess such devices or materials
with intent to do any of these acts.
   B.   Exceptions: This provision shall not apply to duly constituted police,
military authorities, prison officials or peace officers in the discharge of
their duties, or to licensed physicians, nurses, pharmacists and other similar
persons licensed under the laws of this state while in the lawful discharge of
their profession; nor to any established place of business or home having tear
gas installed as a protection against burglary, robbery or holdup, nor to any
bank or other messenger carrying funds or other valuables. (2016 Code)
5-1C-7: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY OR RIOT:
It shall be unlawful for three (3) or more persons in a violent or tumultuous
manner to assemble together to do an unlawful act or, when together, to commit
or attempt to commit an act, whether lawful or unlawful, in an unlawful,
violent or tumultuous manner to the disturbance of others. (2016 Code)
5-1C-8: CONGREGATING ON SIDEWALK:
It shall be an offense for any person or assemblage of persons to obstruct any
sidewalk or passage, or any street or alley, or any walk on any public grounds
in the town by congregating or in any way assembling therein or thereon. (2016
Code)
5-1C-9: DISTURBING PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Public Assembly: It is unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful
public gathering or assembly by making noise, by rude, indecent, or improper
behavior, by profane, improper, or loud language, or in any other manner,
either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance thereof.
   B.   Religious Worship: It shall be unlawful wilfully to disturb any
assembly of persons met for religious worship, by profane discourse or rude and
indecent behavior, or to make noise, either within the place of worship or so
near as to disturb the order and solemnity of the assembly, or wilfully to
disturb or interrupt any school, school meeting, literary society or other
lawful assembly of persons. (2016 Code)
5-1C-10: LOUD NOISE:
   A.   Horns Or Sirens: It shall be unlawful to disturb the peace by
excessive, loud or unusual noise, by blowing horns or ringing bells, or by the
use of sirens, radios or any types of speaking device or noisemakers.
   B.   Loudspeakers; Music: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to disturb the peace and quietude of any part of the city by operating, having
operated, or permitting to be operated, any contrivance, whether electric or
not, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music,
noise or words.
   C.   Mufflers: It shall be unlawful to operate or drive a motor vehicle that
is not equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant operation
to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke, or to use a muffler
cutout, bypass or similar device. (2016 Code)
5-1C-11: DISPLAYING INSULTING SIGNS:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to display
any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device which in its common acceptance is
insulting, profane or abusive to the citizens of the city, and which is
calculated or of which the natural consequence is to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-1D-1: Injuring Or Destroying Property
5-1D-2: Defacing Notices
5-1D-3: Petty Larceny
5-1D-4: Receiving Stolen Property
5-1D-5: Placing Signs Or Advertisements On Property Of Another
5-1D-6: Dragging Injurious Objects On Streets
5-1D-7: Offenses Against Utilities
5-1D-8: Unlawful Intrusion Upon Land
5-1D-9: Unlawful Entrance; Trespassing
5-1D-1: INJURING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY:
   A.   Public Grounds: It shall be unlawful to damage or destroy any tree,
shrub or lawn in a public park or on a public street by wilfully defacing,
cutting, breaking or injuring, except by proper authorization.
   B.   New Pavement: It shall be unlawful wilfully to injure new pavement in
any street, alley or sidewalk by wilfully driving, walking or making marks on
such pavement before it is ready for use.
   C.   Buildings, Other Property: It is unlawful for any person to destroy,
injure, deface, besmear or molest any structure, building, outbuilding, fence,
or other property, real or personal, public or private, belonging to another;
or to use any such property wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other
person entitled to its use; or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such
property by its owner or any other person entitled to its use.
   D.   Cemetery Property Or Grounds:
      1.   Property In Cemetery: It shall be unlawful to injure any tomb,
vault, monument, gravestone or other structure or any fence, railing or other
work for protection or ornamentation in any cemetery by wilfully and
maliciously defacing, removing, mutilating or destroying such structure.
      2.   Cemetery Grounds: It shall be unlawful to injure any tree, plant,
shrub or lawn in any cemetery by wilfully and maliciously destroying, damaging,
defacing, breaking, cutting or driving over such tree, plant, shrub or lawn, or
by wilfully and maliciously throwing or leaving any rubbish, refuse, garbage,
waste, litter or foreign substance within the limits of said cemetery.
   E.   Park Equipment: It shall be unlawful to destroy or injure any property
or equipment in public swimming pools, playgrounds or parks by wilfully
defacing, breaking, damaging, mutilating or cutting.
   F.   Library Property: It shall be unlawful wilfully, maliciously or
wantonly to injure in whole or in part any newspaper, periodical, book, map,
pamphlet, chart, picture, or other property belonging to any public library or
reading room by wilfully tearing, defacing, mutilating or destroying.
   G.   Fire Apparatus: It shall be unlawful wilfully to destroy or injure any
fire hose or other fire apparatus.
   H.   Street Lighting Or Communication Equipment: It shall be unlawful to
maliciously damage or destroy streetlamps, insulators or other street lighting
apparatus or telephone or communication systems by breaking, defacing, burning,
mutilating or cutting, or by throwing or shooting any missile at such apparatus
or system. (2016 Code)
5-1D-2: DEFACING NOTICES:
It shall be unlawful to damage or destroy any public notice, advertisement or
proclamation set up by authority of law, or by order of any court, by
intentionally defacing, obliterating or tearing down such notice,
advertisement, or proclamation in whole or in part, during the time for which
the same is to remain set up. (2016 Code)
5-1D-3: PETTY LARCENY:
   A.   Definition: Petty larceny is the taking of personal property of value
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), accomplished by fraud or
stealth and with intent to deprive another thereof, when the property is not
taken from the person of another.
   B.   Violation: Petty larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits petty
larceny shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (2016 Code)
5-1D-4: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to buy, receive or bring into the city any
property which he knows has been stolen. (2016 Code)
5-1D-5: PLACING SIGNS OR ADVERTISEMENTS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark,
write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill
placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle, or other property
of another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (2016
Code)
5-1D-6: DRAGGING INJURIOUS OBJECTS ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful wilfully to injure any street by driving, propelling or
dragging any vehicle having cleats, lugs, or other nonslipping devices attached
to its wheels on such street, or by dragging any heavy object on or across any
street in a manner injurious to such street. (2016 Code)
5-1D-7: OFFENSES AGAINST UTILITIES:
   A.   Tampering With Utility Meters Or Conduits: It shall be unlawful to
tamper with any gas, water, light or other utility meter or wilfully to injure
or destroy any gas or water pipe main.
   B.   Tapping Utility Lines Or Meters: It shall be unlawful to wilfully tap
onto any gas line, water main or communication or electric system without
permission from the utility in charge of such line, main, or system. Knowledge
of use by accepting such service without proper connection will serve to place
on notice of presumptive evidence against the user. (2016 Code)
5-1D-8: UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND:
Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or piece of land without
license or authority from the owner or person in change thereof, or who erects
or occupies thereon any hut, hovel, shanty, or other structure without such
license or authority, and every person who places, erects, or occupies within
the bounds of any street, alley or avenue, any hut, hovel, shanty, fence, post,
installation, or other structure, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (2016 Code)
5-1D-9: UNLAWFUL ENTRANCE; TRESPASSING:
It is unlawful for any person to enter upon property of another or into an area
or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure is
public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or
otherwise or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in the line of duty, or with the expressed or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. (2016
Code)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
5-1E-1: Refusing Or Failing To Assist An Officer
5-1E-2: Resisting Officers And City Officials
5-1E-3: Rescuing Prisoners
5-1E-4: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
5-1E-5: False Fire Alarms
5-1E-6: False Representation To An Officer
5-1E-7: Removal Of Barricades
5-1E-1: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER:
   A.   An officer making or about to make an arrest, or executing or about to
execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with this code or with state
or federal law, or suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray, or unlawful
assembly, may call upon a person or persons to assist him in making such
arrest, executing such process, or suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful
assembly.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer to refuse or fail to do so. (2016 Code)
5-1E-2: RESISTING OFFICERS AND CITY OFFICIALS:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to resist, oppose or
obstruct police officers or any other officer or employee of the city in the
discharge of his official duties; or, by threats or otherwise, to intimidate or
attempt to intimidate such officer or employee from the discharge of his
official duties; or to assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to,
use abusive or indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee
while such officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties.
(2016 Code)
5-1E-3: RESCUING PRISONERS:
It is unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner, to set at liberty,
rescue, or attempt to set at liberty or rescue, any prisoner or any impounded
animal from any officer or employee of the city having legal custody of the
same or from jail or other place of confinement by the city; or to assist such
prisoner in any manner to escape from legal custody. (2016 Code)
5-1E-4: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to impersonate an officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee thereof, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or powers of an
officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to do so. (2016
Code)
5-1E-5: FALSE FIRE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false fire alarm, or in any manner
to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or any officer or employee
thereof with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, or knowingly to
cause the fire department or its officers or employees to make a useless run.
(2016 Code)
5-1E-6: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee, or agency of the municipal government in any official application to,
or official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the city. (2016 Code)
5-1E-7: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction as placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Curfew
5-2-2: Prevention Of Youth Access To Tobacco
5-2-3: Gatherings Where Minors Consume Alcoholic Beverages
5-2-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
   GUARDIAN: Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground, or
place to which the general public has access, and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purposes. A public place shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
cafe, theater, drugstore, poolroom, shopping center and any other place devoted
to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the
front or immediate area of the above.
   B.   Hours Of Restriction; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any minor to
remain, wander, stroll, or play in any public place on foot or to cruise about
without a set destination in any vehicle in, about, or upon any public place in
the city between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M., Sunday through Thursday, and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Friday through Saturday, unless:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed or permitted by his parent, guardian, or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor; or
      3.   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession, or occupation.
   C.   Permitting Curfew Violation: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly permit
or suffer the presence of minors between the hours of curfew designated in
subsection B of this section.
   D.   Parental Responsibility; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian, custodian, or other adult person having custody or control of any
minor to suffer or permit or by inefficient control to allow such person to be
on any public place within the city between the hours of curfew designated in
subsection B of this section. The provisions of this subsection do not apply
if:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the care, custody, or control of the minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed by his parent, guardian, custodian, or other adult having the care and
custody of the minor; or
      3.   The parent, guardian, or other adult person herein has made a
missing person notification to the police department.
   E.   Special Events: The council may permit, by resolution or motion,
procedures for advance notice or registration with the city of special events
or functions sponsored by churches, schools, clubs, or other organizations
which require minors to be out at a later time. The council may also prescribe
the procedures for taking into custody minors found in violation of this
action.
   F.   Additional Provisions: This section is in no way to affect, alter, or
change any of the other provisions of the ordinances of the city pertaining to
offenses. (Ord. 250, 3-3-2003)
5-2-2: PREVENTION OF YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO:
   A.   Findings And Intent: The city council finds that youth addiction to
tobacco products is a public health problem with grave health consequences. In
recognition that almost ninety percent (90%) of all smokers begin smoking by
the age of eighteen (18), action is needed to curtail the easy access of minors
to cigarettes and other addictive tobacco products. Furthermore, the city
council finds that the Oklahoma state legislature has limited the powers
granted to local governments to address the problem of youth access to tobacco.
Therefore, the intent of this section is to:
      1.   Implement the strictest and most enforceable system allowed under
Oklahoma state law to prevent the illegal sale of cigarettes and other tobacco
products to minors;
      2.   Periodically amend and update this section as necessary, to best
utilize any applicable powers which may be returned to Oklahoma municipalities
in the future; and
      3.   Educate, encourage and assist underage tobacco users in ceasing all
use of addictive tobacco products, preferably before daily use of such products
is initiated. (Ord. 233, 4-5-1999)
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE: A driver's license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
eighteen (18) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness
of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE: Tobacco product or vapor product distributed to members of the
public at no cost for the purpose of promoting the product.
   SAMPLING: The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
   TRANSACTION SCAN: The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver's license or other government
issued photo identification.
   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE: Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver's license or other government issued photo identification.
   VAPOR PRODUCT: Noncombustible products, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. "Vapor products" shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo or electronic device. "Vapor products"
do not include any products regulated by the United States food and drug
administration under chapter V of the food, drug, and cosmetic act.
   C.   Distribution And Sales To Minor; Identification Required:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish, in any
manner, any tobacco product or vapor product to another person who is under
eighteen (18) years of age, or to purchase, in any manner, a tobacco product or
vapor product on behalf of any such person.
      2.   It shall not be unlawful for an employee under eighteen (18) years
of age to handle tobacco products or vapor products when required in the
performance of the employee's duties.
      3.   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products or
vapor products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if any ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under eighteen (18) years of age.
      4.   If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco
products or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient who is not under eighteen (18) years of age, the failure
to subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section.
      5.   If the sale is made by an employee of the owner of a store at which
tobacco products or vapor products are sold at retail, the employee shall be
guilty of violation and shall be subject to the fine. (Ord. 233, 4-5-1999; amd.
2016 Code)
      6.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section.
      7.   For the purposes of determining the liability of a person
controlling franchises or business operations in multiple locations for any
violation of subsection C1 or C3 of this section, each individual franchise or
business location shall be deemed a separate entity.
      8.   Any person who shall violate subsection C1 or C3 of this section
shall be guilty of an offense and may be assessed a fine of: (Ord. 233, 4-5-
1999)
         a.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
offense.
         b.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
offense within a two (2) year period following the first offense.
         c.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a third offense
within a two (2) year period following the first offense. In addition to any
other penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products or the store's
sales tax permit for a store that is predominantly engaged in the sale of vapor
products in which the sale of other products is merely incidental may be
suspended for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days.
         d.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a fourth or
subsequent offense within a two (2) year period following the first offense. In
addition to any other penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products or
the store's sales tax permit for a store that is predominantly engaged in the
sale of vapor products in which the sale of other products is merely incidental
may be suspended for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days. (Ord. 233, 4-5-
1999; amd. 2016 Code)
      9.   Upon failure of any person to pay any fine authorized by this
section within ninety (90) days of the date of the assessment of such fine, the
court clerk or his/her designee shall notify the Oklahoma department of public
safety, as such department is authorized to suspend or not issue a driver's
license to the person until proof of payment has been provided. (Ord. 233, 4-5-
1999)
   D.   Distribution Of Tobacco Product Samples Restricted:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute
tobacco products, vapor products or product samples to any person under
eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   No person shall distribute tobacco products, vapor products or
product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that is within
three hundred feet (300') of any playground, school, or other facility when the
facility is being used primarily by persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
      3.   Any person who shall violate subsection D1 or D2 of this section
shall be guilty of an offense and may be assessed a fine of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense, nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for the second offense, nor more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) for a third or subsequent offense. (Ord. 233, 4-5-1999; amd. 2016
Code)
      4.   Upon failure of any person to pay any fine authorized by this
section within ninety (90) days of the day of the assessment of such fine, the
court clerk or his/her designee shall notify the Oklahoma department of public
safety, as such department is authorized to suspend or not issue a driver's
license to the person until proof of payment has been provided.
   E.   Sale Of Tobacco In Original Sealed Packaging:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in the
original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
      2.   Any person who shall violate subsection E1 of this section shall be
guilty of an offense and may be assessed a fine of not more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for each offense. (Ord. 233, 4-5-1999)
   F.   Possession By Minors; Falsifying Proof Of Age:
      1.   Except as provided under subsection C2 of this section, it is
unlawful for a person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to purchase,
receive, or have in their possession a tobacco or vapor product, or to present
or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false or fraudulent
for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco or vapor product. (Ord.
233, 4-5-1999; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   On conviction of an individual for an offense under subsection F1 of
this section, the court shall suspend execution of sentence and shall require
the defendant to attend a tobacco education program. The court shall require
the parent or guardian of the defendant to attend the tobacco education program
with the defendant.
      3.   If access to the tobacco education program is not readily available,
the court shall require the defendant to perform eight (8) to twelve (12) hours
of tobacco related community service instead of attending a tobacco education
program.
      4.   The tobacco education program and the tobacco related community
service are remedial and are not punishment.
      5.   No later than the ninetieth day after the date of conviction under
subsection F1 of this section, the defendant shall present to the court, in a
manner required by the court, evidence of satisfactory completion of the
tobacco education program or the tobacco related community service.
      6.   On receipt of the evidence required under subsection F5 of this
section, the court shall:
         a.   If the defendant has been convicted of a previous offense under
subsection F1 of this section which offense occurred within one year prior to
the offense for which the defendant is currently charged, execute the sentence,
and at the discretion of the court, assess a fine of not less than ten dollars
($10.00) and not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
         b.   If the defendant has not been convicted of a previous offense
under subsection F1 of this section which offense occurred within one year
prior to the offense for which the defendant is currently charged, dismiss the
complaint and discharge the defendant.
      7.   If the court dismisses the complaint under subsection F6b of this
section, the defendant is released from all penalties and disabilities
resulting from the offense except that the defendant is considered to have been
convicted of the offense if the defendant is subsequently convicted of the same
charge if such a repeat offense occurs within one year of the dismissed
offense.
      8.   Any person convicted of an offense under subsection F1 of this
section may apply to the court to have the conviction expunged. If the court
finds that the individual satisfactorily completed the tobacco education
program or tobacco related community service ordered by the court and that
there has been no subsequent offense for a period of at least one year after
the date of the offense for which the person was convicted, the courts shall
order the conviction and complaint, verdict, sentence, or other document
relating to the offense to be expunged from the individual's record and the
conviction may not be shown or made known for any purpose.
      9.   If the defendant does not provide the evidence required under
subsection F5 of this section within the period specified by that subsection or
upon failure of the defendant to pay any fine authorized by this section within
ninety (90) days of the date of the assessment of such fine, the court clerk or
his/her designee shall notify the Oklahoma department of public safety, as such
department is authorized to suspend or not issue a driver's license to the
person until the required evidence of proof of payment has been provided.
   G.   Reporting: The city clerk or his/her designee shall furnish any
information or reports required or requested by the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage
laws enforcement (ABLE) commission in the form, manner, and time as may be
determined by the ABLE commission.
   H.   Nonretaliation: No person shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any
manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer
because such employee, applicant, or customer reported violations of any
provisions of this section. (Ord. 233, 4-5-1999)
5-2-3: GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS CONSUME ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent (0.5%) or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit
for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with
other substances. This term includes intoxicating beverages and "low point
beer" as defined herein.
   GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   INTOXICATION BEVERAGE: Includes beverages containing more than three and
two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the
person of a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half
of one percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-tenths
percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or cereal
malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley
or other grain, malt or similar products.
   MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
   PREMISES: Any residence or other private property, place, or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
   RESPONSE COSTS: The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement, fire, or
other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding to,
remaining at, or otherwise delaying with a gathering, and the administrative
cost attributable to such response(s);
      2.   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire, or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering;
      3.   The cost of repairing any city equipment or property damaged, and
the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at, or
leaving the scene of a gathering; and
      4.   Any other allowable cost related to the enforcement of this section.
   B.   Consumption By Minor In Public Place, Place Open To Public, Or Place
Not Open To Public: Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful for any
minor to:
      1.   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public
alcoholic beverages; or
      2.   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   C.   Hosting, Permitting Or Allowing Party Or Gathering:
      1.   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting drivers' licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in subsection C1 of this
section.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
      2.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use of
alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public, then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as a nonfamily gathering.
      3.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public,
then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
nonreligious gathering.
      4.   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the state
of Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages.
      5.   This section shall not apply where prohibited or preempted by state
or federal law. (Ord. 269, 4-4-2011)
   E.   Penalty: Except in cases where a different punishment is now or may
hereafter be prescribed by ordinance, any person, firm, or corporation who
commits an offense, or misdemeanor, shall, upon conviction, be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's continuation of an offense, or misdemeanor,
shall be deemed a separate offense, or misdemeanor, and shall be punishable as
such. (Ord. 269, 4-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
   F.   Reservation Of Legal Options: Violations of this section may be
prosecuted by the city criminally, civilly, and/or administratively as provided
in this code. The city may seek administrative fees and response costs
associated with enforcement of this section through all remedies or procedures
provided by statute, ordinance, or law. This section shall not limit the
authority of peace officers or private citizens to make arrests for any
criminal offense arising out of conduct regulated by this section. Nor shall
they limit the city's ability to initiate and prosecute any criminal offense
arising out of the same circumstances necessitating the application of this
section. (Ord. 269, 4-4-2011)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Offenses
5-3-3: Rabies Vaccination And City Registration
5-3-4: Veterinarian Records
5-3-5: Cats And Dogs Spay And Neuter Law
5-3-6: City Registration Fees
5-3-7: Unlawfully Kept Animals
5-3-8: Summons And Complaints
5-3-9: Quarantine Of Animals Suspected Of Having Rabies
5-3-10: Penalty
5-3-11: Nuisance, Potentially Dangerous Or Dangerous Dog Or Cat
5-3-12: Impoundment Persons Authorized
5-3-13: Shelter Established
5-3-14: Reclaiming Of Animals Or Sale Of Impounded Animals
5-3-15: Redemption By Owner
5-3-16: Fees; Impoundment: Daily Maintenance; Release And Disposal
5-3-17: Procedure For Seizure And Disposition Of Abandoned Or Neglected Animals
5-3-18: Prohibition Against Animals Running At Large
5-3-19: Turning Animals At Large
5-3-20: Prohibition Against Animals Defecating In The City Limits
5-3-21: Agricultural Animals Not To Be Kept Within City
5-3-22: Pasturing In Public Areas
5-3-23: Mistreatment Of Animals
5-3-24: Failure To Provide Food, Water And Shelter For Animals
5-3-25: Poisoning Of Animals
5-3-26: Killing Or Maiming Birds
5-3-27: Zoning Ordinance To Prevail
5-3-28: Violations; Notice; Defense
5-3-29: Location Of Animal Shelter
5-3-30: Sanitary Conditions
5-3-31: Commercial Animal Establishments
5-3-32: Destruction Of Animals
5-3-33: Prohibiting Sale Of Animals In Public Places
5-3-34: Requirements For Keeping Cattle, Horses, Sheep, Goats
5-3-35: Nuisance Cattle, Horses, Sheep, Goats, Poultry, Pigeons, Doves And
Rabbits Including, But Not Limited To, Reptiles, Exotic And Wild Animals
5-3-36: City Registration Fee: Cattle, Horses, Sheep And Goats
5-3-37: Requirements For Keeping Poultry, Pigeons, Doves And Rabbits
5-3-38: Wild By Nature And Exotic Animals
5-3-39: Acceptable Reptiles
5-3-40: Prohibited Reptiles
5-3-41: Habitat For Reptiles
5-3-42: Transporting And Handling Of Reptiles
5-3-43: Release Of Reptiles
5-3-44: Miscellaneous Charges
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
ADEQUATE      The air in an environment can be removed and replaced by fresh air from outside.
VENTILATION:  Air conditioning units are not enough to replace the air in animal housing
              facilities.
ANIMAL:       Any live, vertebrate creature, whether domestic or wild.
ANIMAL WILD   Any animal, which because of its dangerous physical features, great size or its
BY NATURE:    vicious nature, presents a clear and proven danger to human beings is not allowed
              in the city limits of Jay,
AT HEEL:      When a dog is obedient to. and under the immediate control and supervision of its
              owner or its owner’s agent
              Not securely confined by a fence or other means; on premises under the control
              of, or occupied by, the owner, a member of his immediate family or an agent of
AT LARGE:     the owner, by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner’s premises or not. Any
              type of electric underground fencing does not apply as sufficient fencing. A cat
              not in physical control by its owner. One must be able to control the animal he
              has in his possession.
ATTACK:       Violent or aggressive physical contact with a person, dog or cat with the intent
              to cause harm or the infliction of serious injury.
CAT:          Any member of the feline family.
CHIEF OF      The City of Jay Chief of Police or his or her designate.
POLICE:
CITY CLERK:   The City of Jay City Clerk or authorized designate thereof.
COMMERCIAL
ANIMAL        Any stable or boarding facility, grooming or bathing facility or boarding
ESTABLISHMENT facility, carriage horse or pony service, or sentry or guard dog service.
(TYPE A):
COMMERCIAL    Any business keeping animals in stock for retail or wholesale trade which shall
ANIMAL        include, but not be limited to, wholesale distributors, pet stores, stockyards,
ESTABLISHMENT breeders and hatcheries.
(TYPE B):
COMMERCIAL    Must provide proof through the State of Oklahoma that they hold a commercial
BREEDER:      breeders license. The city does not sell or offer a commercial breeders license.
              Has inflicted severe injury on a human being without provocation on public or
              private property; has been previously found to be potentially dangerous, the
DANGEROUS     owner having received notice of such by the animal control authority in writing
DOG:          and the dog thereafter aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the safety of
              humans, or has been previously found to be potentially dangerous, the owner
              having received notice of such by the animal control authority in writing and the
              dog thereafter kills or severely injures a domestic animal.
DOG:          Any animal of the canine species.
DOMESTIC      Dogs and cats, as well as horses, donkeys, mules, burros, cattle, sheep, goats,
ANIMAL:       swine, rabbits and fowl.
              It is the duty of the Animal Control Officer, or such officer or employee of the
ENFORCEMENT:  city as may be authorized by the Chief of Police and or the Mayor of the City of
              Jay, to enforce the provisions of this chapter by impounding, issuing of warnings
              or citations.
              Any bird which has been domesticated and is commonly raised for food or egg
FOWL:         production, including, but not limited to, chickens, ducks, geese, turkey,
              peafowl, pheasant, partridge, quail and grouse.
INTACT        A permit that* allows the owner of a dog or cat to keep the pet intact,
PERMIT:       unaltered.
LEASH:        Any type of material no longer than eight feet in length to keep the animal from
              being at large when being walked in public.
              Any of the class Mammalia or any subclass of all animals that nourish their young
MAMMAL:       with milk secreted by mammary glands and have their skin more or less covered
              with hair.
              For purposes of this chapter, any animal, shalt be deemed a public nuisance
              which:
              (1)   Is repeatedly at large: three or more times;
              (2)   Damages public or private property;
              (3)   Wild by nature;
              (4)   Is potentially dangerous;
              (5)   Is dangerous;
NUISANCE:     (6)   Barks, whines, howls or emits other noise excessively or continuously to
              the detriment of the public peace and order;
              (7)   Engages in any behavior that requires a defensive action by any person to
              prevent bodily injury;
              (8) When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person on a
              bicycle, in an apparent attitude of attack; and
              (9) Is maintained in an enclosure that does not sufficiently protect the public
              from the threat caused by the dog, ‘considering the safety of the enclosure and
              the degree of aggressive and threatening behavior evidenced by the dog.
              For purposes of this chapter, any animal shall be deemed a public nuisance which:
              (1)   Is repeatedly at large: three or more times;
NUISANCE      (2)   Damages public or private property;
LIVESTOCK,    (3)   Wild by nature;
FOWL,         (4)   Is potentially dangerous;
POULTRY,      (5)   Is dangerous;   
DOVES,        (6)   Barks, whines, howls or emits other noise excessively or continuously to
RABBITSAND    the detriment of the public peace and order;
REPTILES      (7)   Engages in any behavior that requires a defensive action by any person to
INCLUDING     prevent bodily injury;
EXOTIC AND    (8)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person on a
WILD BY       bicycle, in an apparent attitude of attack;
NATURE        (9)   Is maintained in an enclosure that does not sufficiently protect the public
ANIMALS:      from the threat caused by the animal, considering the safety of the enclosure and
              the degree of aggressive and threatening behavior evidenced by the animal;
              (10)   Is not housed on land sufficient for the animal; and
              (11)   Is too close to surrounding residence, property lines or housing.
              Natural or artificial shelters appropriate to the local climatic conditions for
              the particular species of animal or fowl shall be provided for all animals or
              fowl kept outdoors. A suitable method of drainage shall be provided to rapidly
              eliminate excess water. A shelter for any animal shall consist of a moisture-
OUTDOOR       proof and wind-proof structure of suitable size to accommodate the animal and to
SHELTER:      allow retention of body heat. If the animal is to be crated, either inside or
              outside the crate has to be adequately sized for the animal. The animal shall
              have enough room to completely turn around and the top of the cage cannot touch
              the animal’s ears. Fresh potable water must be provided at all times. An animal
              kept outside must have constant access to adequate shelter consisting of three
              sides and a roof that protects from the elements.
              Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an animal. The
OWNER:        occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains, or to
              which it customarily returns for a period of ten days or more, shall be deemed to
              be harboring or keeping the animal.
POTENTIALLY   When unprovoked, inflicts bites or tries to inflict on a human either on public
DANGEROUS     or private property, or when unprovoked kills or severely injures a domestic
DOG:          animal either on public or private property. If unprovoked chases or approaches a
              person, including a person on a bicycle, in an apparent attitude of attack.
POULTRY:      Any bird of the species Gallus gallus or Meleagris gallipavo (domestic turkey),
              generally, and any type of chicken.
PROPERTY      For the purpose of this chapter, PROPERTY LINE shall be the start of any property
LINE:         owned or harbored by any person, business or other type of establishment or land.
RABIES        Any dog or cat which has bitten a human being, or which has been bitten by any
SUSPECTED     animal suspected of having rabies or any infection associated therewith.
ANIMAL:
              An individual or organization that regularly harbors dogs or cats which have no
              readily identifiable owner. An individual rescuer shall be named as such on a
RESCUER:      roster of recognized rescuers furnished by a local animal welfare organization to
              the City Clerk. A rescuer must have a 501 C. stating they are a non-profit rescue
              organization.
SEVERE        Any physical injury that results in broken bones or lacerations requiring
INJURIES:     multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery. (4 O.S. Title 4, Ch. 3, § 44 #3)
SHELTER:      Where any animal is housed, kept for any length of time. Properly constructed of
              three sides and a top-roof.
UNPROVOKED:   The animal was not teased, tormented or abused, nor protecting its owner or
              owner’s property from potential criminal activity.
VACCINATED:   That a dog or cat has been injected with the rabies vaccine. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
 
5-3-2: OFFENSES:
It is unlawful and an offense for any owner as herein defined, within the
corporate limits of the city to do any of the following:
   A.   To own, keep, possess, harbor, or allow to remain on premises under his
control, any dog or cat of the age of four months or older, unless such dog or
cat shall have been vaccinated and licensed as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Fail to prevent any dog or cat owned, possessed, kept or harbored by
property occupant from running at large or being at large. It shall be
permissible for a dog to be led off the premises of its owner when under leash.
Nowhere in this chapter does this apply to police dogs.
   C.   To abandon or desert any animal or to permit any animal to become a
stray.
   D.   To harbor, keep, or have possession of any dangerous dog.
   E.   To harbor, keep, or have possession of any animal which is a nuisance.
   F.   To fail, or refuse, to surrender to the Chief of Police, or designated
by the Chief of Police or any person designated by the Mayor, upon demand, any
unlicensed dog or cat, any dangerous, potentially dangerous dog or any animal
which is a nuisance, any rabies suspected animal, dog or cat found at large as
defined herein, or any animal the keeping or harboring of which is declared to
be an offense.
   G.   Remove or fail to affix or attach to collars or harnesses worn by dogs
or cats a current license city registration and current rabies tag as provided
in this chapter.
   H.   Keep, possess, own, harbor or exhibit any animal wild by nature except
as any exhibition complying with all aspects of federal laws and regulations
and Oklahoma laws and regulations applicable to exhibition of animals wild by
nature and except for the keeping or raising of wild or exotic animals under
the city zoning ordinances.
   I.   Allow an animal to defecate (without the owner, keeper or harborer
removing the excreta deposited) on public property or private property other
than that of the owner.
   J.   Harbor, keep or possess in any one household more than a combined total
of five dogs and cats over the age of four months; provided that no more than
three of such animals shall be dogs over the age of four months. It is
specifically provided a household may keep or possess more dogs and/or cats
than permitted by this paragraph so long as:
      1.   Immediately prior to January 5th, 2018, the household legally
possessed more than the number of dogs and/or cats permitted by this paragraph;
      2.   Those dogs and/or cats were licensed according to the city
ordinances;
   K.   Own or harbor, keep any fowl, swine, equine, goats or rabbits in the
city limits not in compliance with this chapter.
   L.   Fail to prevent any horse, mule, donkey, cattle, goat or swine of any
kind owned, possessed, kept or harbored from running or being at large.
   M.   Failure to provide food, water and shelter to any animal in the city
limits of Jay.
   N.   Failure to pay for rabies quarantine by a licensed veterinarian. This
fee is subject to change due to the veterinarian’s room and board fees.
   O.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, possess in any one
household more than a total of six reptiles or rodents of any kind.
   P.   Fail to register livestock-reptiles kept in city limits.
   Q.   To harbor, keep or have in possession of any animal which is
potentially dangerous. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-3: RABIES VACCINATION AND CITY REGISTRATION:
It is the duty of every person owning or having in possession, within the city
limits of Jay, any dog or cat over the age of four months, to keep current on
its rabies vaccination by any person duly authorized to practice veterinary
medicine in the State of Oklahoma. Also the duty of every person owning or
having in possession to register the animals with the City Clerk or animal
shelter and to pay the registration fees herein provided. Each veterinarian
vaccinating a dog or cat shall issue to the owner of the animal the date of
vaccination and a sufficient description of such animal to identify the same as
required for registration. No vaccination against rabies shall be recognized or
entitle the owner of the animal to register the same unless such vaccination
shall have been had within the calendar year for which the license is issued or
within a period of ten days prior thereto. The three-year vaccination against
rabies is allowed in the city limits. The requirement for a registration fee
shall not apply to any animal which may follow or be led by any nonresident or
traveler through the city, while such animal is with its owner or keeper. (Ord.
312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-4: VETERINARIAN RECORDS:
It is the duty of each veterinarian practicing in the city to keep a record of
each and every dog and cat vaccinated, such record to be available to the City
Clerk, Animal Control Officer or designated agent, at any reasonable time and
upon proper demand. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-5: CATS AND DOGS SPAY AND NEUTER LAW:
All dogs and cats five months in age in the city limits of Jay must be spayed
or neutered unless the owner has a breeders or hobbyist license, or intact
permit of the dog is used for the Jay Police Canine. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-6: CITY REGISTRATION FEES:
The registration fees herein provided for shall be as follows:
   A.   Five dollars for each dog or cat which has been spayed or neutered;
   B.   Twenty dollars for each dog or cat that is not altered. They must
posses a hobbyist, commercial establishment or a state breeder’s license or
intact permit to purchase this registration;
   C.   All registrations shall be for the life of the animal; and
   D.   The owner must provide:
      1.   Proof of current rabies (either one-year vaccination or three-year
vaccination);
      2.   Proof of animal being spayed or neutered; and
      3.   Picture of animal that they are registering. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-7: UNLAWFULLY KEPT ANIMALS:
It is the duty of the Animal Control Officer, or other person authorized by the
Chief of Police, to seize and impound for the times and under the conditions
hereinafter stated the following:
   A.   Every abandoned animal;
   B.   Every potentially dangerous or dangerous animal;
   C.   Every animal which is a nuisance;
   D.   Every cat or dog that is not spayed or neutered;
   E.   Every rabies suspected or animal that has not been vaccinated against
rabies;
   F.   Every animal at large;
   G.   Any animal keeping or harboring of which is declared to be an offense
in this chapter;
   H.   Every animal that poses a threat to the public, be wild by nature or
aggressive behavior; and
   I.   Every animal not city registered. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-8: SUMMONS AND COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Any person who witnesses or has personal knowledge that an act or acts
made unlawful by this section have been committed may sign a complaint against
the alleged violator.
   B.   The complainant must provide a sworn complaint to the officer receiving
the complaint containing the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the complainant and other
witnesses to the incident;
      2.   Date, time and location of the incident or incidents;
      3.   Description of the animal;
      4.   Name, address and telephone number (if known) of the animal owner;
      5.   If applicable, a statement that the animal attacked the complainant,
or some other person or animal as witnessed by the complainant; and
      6.   Other facts and circumstances of the incident.
   C.   Any police officer, Animal Control Officer or code enforcement officer
designated by the Mayor is authorized to issue a summons and complaint when the
officer personally observes a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-9: QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES:
   A.   Every person having reason to believe that a child under the age of 18
years has been bitten or scratched by an animal shall report the matter
promptly to the Animal Control Department or local Police Department.
   B.   Any person owning, harboring or keeping an animal, which in the
preceding ten days has bitten, any person, shall upon receipt of written
notice, place such animal in confinement under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian for a period of ten days from the date the person was bitten. In
special circumstances the Chief of Police, or his specifically designated
representative, may require the immediate euthanasia of a specified animal and
perform tests for diagnosis of rabies. SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES shall be defined
as those situations involving severe bites by un-immunized animate. In this
context, SEVERE is defined by the U.S. Public Health Service Advisory Committee
on Immunization Practices as “bites upon the head, face, neck or upper
extremities; or deep lacerations; or multiple bite wounds.”
   C.   It shall be the duty of the veterinarian in whose supervision the
animal is placed to keep the animal isolated in a separate pen or kennel and
under observation for any symptoms of rabies. The veterinarian shall report
immediately to the County Health Officer or the County Superintendent of Health
any changes occurring in the condition of the animal. In the event the animal
dies or develops rabies-like symptoms within the specified period of
confinement, the animal’s head shall be removed immediately and packed in a
shipping container in accordance with instructions published by the State
Commissioner of Health and sent to the State Department of Health Laboratory,
Oklahoma City, for examination.
      1.   Any person owning, harboring or in any manner keeping an animal
which, in the preceding ten days has bitten any other animal, shall upon
receipt of notice place such animal in confinement under the supervision of a
licensed veterinarian for a period of ten days from the date of the bite.
      2.   In the event the impounded animal dies or develops rabies-like
symptoms (as certified by veterinarian or staff) during confinement, the animal
head shall be immediately removed and transmitted for examination to the State
Department of Health in accordance with the procedures of division (B) above.
Provided, in the event of such death or symptom development of the impounded
animal, the owner of the bitten animal shall immediately upon notice likewise
place his animal in confinement under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian for the observation required above.
   D.   Payment of any fees incurred and cost of boarding the animal shall be
the responsibility of the person owning, keeping or harboring the animal.
   E.   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer, or other person
authorized by the Chief of Police or Mayor, to enforce these regulations, and
in instances where responsibility for the suspect animal cannot be determined
or established, he shall make arrangements for the isolation and observation of
the animal .
   F.   Any domestic dog or cat which is not effectively immunized against
rabies virus encephalitis and is exposed to rabies through a rabid animal shall
be euthanized immediately either by the veterinarian in charge or by the local
rabies control officer or his agent; or such non-immunized, rabies-exposed dog
or cat shall be strictly quarantined and observed for a period of six months by
a veterinarian control officer or his agent, and such animal shall be immunized
against rabies at least 30 days prior to release. Expenses of quarantine and
immunization shall be borne by the owner or other person responsible for the
animal.
   G.   Any domestic animal other than a dog or cat which is not immunized
against rabies and is exposed to a rabid animal shall be immediately reported
to the Rabies Control Division of the State Department of Health for
consultation concerning the disposition of the animal.
   H.   Any un-immunized domestic animal which is bitten by a wild skunk, bat
or carnivore where the biting animal has escaped and/or is not available for
laboratory, shall be considered exposed to rabies and shall be dealt with
according to divisions (E) and (F) above.
   I.   Any effectively immunized domestic animal which is exposed to a rabid
animal shall be immediately re-immunized and restrained for a period of at
least 90 days.
   J.   It is prohibited to sell live virus rabies vaccine licensed for use in
animals to anyone other than a licensed veterinarian in the State of Oklahoma.
Veterinarians shall be required to keep a record of the type and/or brand name
of the rabies vaccine administered to each animal. These records shall be
maintained for a period consistent with the need which is interpreted by the
Commissioner of Health to be three years. When inactivated (killed virus)
vaccines are sold to individuals who are not licensed veterinarians, the seller
must keep a record for three years which includes: the name, address and
telephone number (if any) of the purchaser; the brand name, lot serial number
and expiration date of the vaccine sold; and the total amount of vaccine sold.
The individual who administers rabies vaccine must keep a record for three
years which includes: name and address of the owner of the animal, date of
vaccination, brand name of vaccine used, lot serial number of vaccine used,
person or firm from whom purchased, their address and date of purchase;
expiration date of vaccine used and the name, address and telephone number (if
any) of the individual administering the vaccine. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine of not exceeding $200, excluding costs. Each day or any portion of a
day during which any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in this section.
   C.   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of
competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law. (Ord.
312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-11: NUISANCE, POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT:
   A.   An officer of the city, or any citizen, may initiate a municipal court
proceeding to detennine whether a dog or cat is a “nuisance”, “potentially
dangerous” or a “dangerous” dog by filing a complaint with a municipal court
prosecutor.
   B.   Upon the issuance of summons and notice to the owner, and upon the
conclusion of a hearing, the judge of the municipal court is authorized to
enter a finding on the complaint and, if finding that the dog or cat is a
“nuisance”, “potentially dangerous” or “dangerous”, may order:
      1.   The payment of court costs and fines allowed by law;
      2.   The installation of fencing, restraints or enclosures in such a m
anner to provide the degree of protection warranted by the danger presented;
      3.   The owner to obtain a policy of liability insurance in the amount
deemed necessary to protect the public from any injuries inflicted on the
public by the dangerous dog;
      4.   The removal of the dog from the city limits; and
      5.   The confiscation and/or destruction of the dog or cat. (Ord. 312, 1-
4-2018)
5-3-12: IMPOUNDMENT PERSONS AUTHORIZED:
The shelter supervisor, Animal Control Officer, police officer or person
designated by the Chief of Police may be authorized to take into custody and
impound any animal running at large in violation of any provisions of this
chapter or any other ordinances of the city, and may enter upon the premises of
the owner or other private premises to take such animal into custody. In the
event that an animal illegally at large cannot be caught by a reasonable
effort, and such animal is not vicious or rabid under the terms of this
chapter, an attempt shall be made to notify the owner of such animal to catch
the animal. Any other person may take such animal into custody and present it
to the authority in charge of the shelter for impounding. The Animal Control
Officers have the ability to issue citations for the city ordinances that have
been violated. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-13: SHELTER ESTABLISHED:
A city shelter is hereby established under the jurisdiction of the Police
Department. It shall be under the immediate control of the animal control
officer or of such other person as may be officially designated. The person in
charge of the shelter shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded
and shall treat them in a humane manner. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-14: RECLAIMING OF ANIMALS OR SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall be entitled to reclaim any animal found to be a
nuisance, potentially dangerous or dangerous animal nor shall any person be
entitled to reclaim any animal found to be rabid, nor shall any person be
allowed to reclaim an animal if he has been found to be guilty of mistreatment
of the animal, or failure to provide food and water for the animal. If an
animal is impounded for failure to spay - neuter the owner of the animal must
make arrangements for the animal to be spayed or neutered before reclaimed. The
owner could adopt the animal back to ensure the animal would get spayed or
neutered. This fee may differ due to impounding charges.
   B.   Except as provided herein, the owner may reclaim any animal seized
hereunder by submitting proof, satisfactory to the Animal Control Officer or
person designated by the Chief of Police of his ownership of such animal and by
paying license fees and poundage fees as provided in this section and at the
following times:
      1.   Within three days after the expiration of the ten-day term as to
every animal held under observation and not showing symptoms of rabies; and
      2.   The owner has three days from date of seizure-impounding to reclaim
animals impounded; except those animals awaiting a court date or trial. After
any animal has been impounded, the animal (dog, cat, fowl) will be held for
three days, the first day being the day after impoundment, not including
holidays or weekends. After the three days, the animal becomes property of the
city. If the animal meets adoption requirements the animal may be put up for
adoption. If the animal does not meet adoption requirements the animal will be
euthanized. If the animal does not get adopted after a minimum of four days,
the animal may be euthanized. (4 O.S. §§ 501 through 508) The shelter
supervisor or other designated person by the Chief of Police has the authority
to determine the disposition of the animals. (Adoption fee may change due to
vaccination prices and veterinary services may change in fees.) (Ord. 312, 1-4-
2018)
5-3-15: REDEMPTION BY OWNER:
An owner of an impounded animal or his agent may redeem the animal, prior to
its sale or destruction as provided for herein, by paying the required fees
against the animal and meeting any other requirements which may be prescribed
in this chapter. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-16: FEES; IMPOUNDMENT; DAILY MAINTENANCE; RELEASE AND DISPOSAL:
The fees for impounding and maintaining an animal which shall be paid upon
redemption shall be as follows:
   A.   For any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow or similar large animal:
      1.   Impound fee: $50; and
      2.   Daily maintenance: $25.
   B.   For any dog, cat, hog, sheep, goat or other animal of similar size:
      1.   Impound fee: First offense: $10;
      2.   Impound fee: Second offense: $20;
      3.   Impound fee: Third offense: $50; and
      4.   Daily maintenance: $5. In computing the fee, a fraction of a day
during which an animal has been fed shall be deemed a full day.
   C.   For any fowl or similar animal:
      1.   Impound fee: $2; and
      2.   Daily maintenance: $1.
   D.   Disposal fee: $15.
   E.   Fees for person releasing an animal to the city shall be:
      1.   Of an individual canine/feline: $20.
      2.   Of a litter of puppies or kittens: $50.
      3.   Of any unvaccinated canine/feline that has bitten and is requiring
rabies testing by the city contracted veterinarian: $75. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-17: PROCEDURE FOR SEIZURE AND DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED OR NEGLECTED
ANIMALS:
   A.   If a law enforcement officer has reason to believe that an animal has
been abandoned or neglected in violation of 21 O.S. §§ 1685 or 1692 through
1700, the officer may apply in a court of competent jurisdiction for a warrant
to seize the animal. Upon a showing of probable cause, the court shall issue a
warrant and set a hearing within ten calendar days of the date of issuance to
determine if a violation of such statutes has occurred. Upon execution of the
warrant, the animal shall be impounded, and the owner of the animal shall
receive written notice of the time and place of a hearing to determine whether
the owner’s right to ownership of the animal shall be terminated.
   B.   If the court finds the owner of the animal has not abandoned or
neglected the animal, the court shall order the animal returned to the owner.
   C.   If the court finds that the owner of the animal has abandoned or
neglected the animal, the owner shall be divested of ownership of the animal,
and the court shall order:
      1.   The ownership of the animal be transferred to a nonprofit animal
shelter, pound or society for the protection of animals so that the animal may
be sold or adopted; or
      2.   The animal be humanely destroyed if the court determines that the
best interests of the animal or that the public health and safety would be
served by doing so.
   D.   If the court finds that the owner of the animal has abandoned or
neglected the animal, the court shall order the owner to pay all court cost,
and reasonable costs incurred for housing and caring for the animal during
impoundment, and any reasonable costs incurred for humanely destroying the
animal if ordered by the court. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-18: PROHIBITION AGAINST ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
No owner, keeper or other person shall permit any animal: cat, dog, horse, cow,
goat or sheep including fowl and birds owned, harbored or kept by him or her,
to be at large. It is unlawful for any such animal, including fowl and birds,
to be. at large at any time within the city. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-19: TURNING ANIMALS AT LARGE:
It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined as required by ordinance so as to turn such animal at large or in any
manner to turn such animal at large. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-20: PROHIBITION AGAINST ANIMALS DEFECATING IN THE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   No owner, keeper or person having control of any animal or fowl shall
fail to immediately remove and dispose of in a sanitary manner any solid waste
deposited by such animal or fowl upon any sidewalk, public park, alley, other
place open to the public or from private property of another before the owner
leaves the immediate area where the solid waste was deposited.
   B.   No owner, keeper or person having control of any animal or fowl shall
fail to have in his possession the equipment necessary to remove his animal’s
solid waste when accompanied by the animal or fowl on public property.
   C.   No owner, keeper or person having control of any animal or fowl shall
permit such animal or fowl to destroy or damage property of any kind or to
deposit solid waste or to commit a similar nuisance on the private property of
a person or the property of the city, including its parks and playgrounds, or
any property other than that of the owner of the animal or fowl. (Ord. 312, 1-
4-2018)
5-3-21: AGRICULTURAL ANIMALS NOT TO BE KEPT WITHIN CITY:
No person shall keep within the city limits any swine other than Jay Public
Schools Agricultural Department. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-22: PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS:
It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public-school ground or other public property, federal, state, city or other,
on any railroad right-of-way, or on any property without the consent of the
person owning or controlling such property. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-23: MISTREATMENT OE ANIMALS:
Any person who unjustifiably or intentionally does any of the following acts is
guilty of a misdemeanor:
   A.   Overdrives, overloads, maims or mutilates any animal;
   B.   Deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food or drink;
   C.   Causes, procures or unjustifiably or intentionally permits any animal
to be overdriven, overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten or unjustifiably
injured, maimed, mutilated or killed;
   D.   Causes any animal to be deprived of necessary food or drink; or
   E.   Willfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in or in any way furthers
any act of cruelty. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-24: FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOOD, WATER AND SHELTER FOR ANIMALS:
Any person who, having impounded or confined any animal, refuses or neglects to
supply such animal during its confinement a sufficient supply of good and
wholesome air, food, shelter and water is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 312,
1-4-2018)
5-3-25: POISONING OF ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for a person willfully to poison any dog or other animal; or
knowingly to expose poison so that the same may be taken by such an animal.
(Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-26: KILLING OR MAIMING BIRDS:
It is unlawful for any person to shoot, maim, kill or destroy any songbird or
insectivorous bird, within the city. Nothing in this section shall apply to
English sparrows. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-27: ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL:
In cases of any conflict between any provision of this chapter and the zoning
ordinances of the city, the Zoning Ordinance shall prevail. (Ord. 312, 1-4-
2018)
5-3-28: VIOLATIONS; NOTICE; DEFENSE:
   A.   Upon the arrest of any persons for any violation of this chapter, the
arresting officer may take the violator’s name, address, place of employment,
and issue to the violator in writing a notice on a form authorized by the
municipal judge and commanding the violator to answer the charge against him or
her within five days at the place specified in the notice. The notice also
contain a description of the domestic animal found in violation, and shall
specify the fine for the violation in accordance with order issued by the judge
of the municipal court of the city.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof in the municipal
criminal court of the city, be fined as provided in this code. The abatement of
a nuisance shall not be a defense in any prosecution. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-29: LOCATION OF ANIMAL SHELTER:
No kennel, animal shelter or other structure wherein animals are kept shall be
maintained less than ten feet from the nearest property line, nor less than 150
feet to any dwelling other than the owner’s. On lots of 35,000 square feet or
more, no shelter shall be maintained within a distance of 75 feet from any
dwelling other than the shelter owner’s. Nothing herein shall be deemed to
allow the maintenance of any stables, kennels or other shelters where such
maintenance is otherwise prohibited by law, including kennels used for
hobbyist. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-30: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
Every stable, structure, pen, coop, yard or place wherein an animal is kept or
permitted to be, shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and free
from objectionable odors. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-31: COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Each commercial animal establishment of any type shall keep and
maintain its animals and all pens, cages, tanks or other holding facilities in
which animals are kept in such a manner as to prevent a nuisance or health
hazard to humans and to avoid injury and minimize illness to such animals. All
holding areas shall be disinfected periodically (minimum of once daily) to
reduce disease pathogens. A commercial animal establishment is not a commercial
breeder’s license. One must obtain a commercial breeder’s license from the
State of Oklahoma. No Type A establishment shall operate except veterinarian
clinics without this permit. If the anima! establishment of any kind is not
being kept in compliance with this chapter, the establishment shall receive a
summons and notice to the owner-business manager, for a hearing, whereby the
judge of the municipal court will determine the conclusion of a hearing. The
establishment then:
      1.   Has a set amount of time by the municipal court to comply with this
chapter;
      2.   Could be put on a six-month probation period. During that time if
the establishment receives three or more valid complaints the establishment
shall go before the municipal court a second time to pull their license
permanently; and
      3.   Is subject to having the commercial license revoked due to failure
to comply.
   B.   All animals housed in any commercial animal establishment shall have a
wholesome, adequate diet and potable water consistent with the requirements and
habits of the animal’s species, type, size, age and condition. Available
shelter that meets the requirements of the animal’s size and habitat with
adequate ventilation and protection from the elements. Such animal showing
evidence of disease or injury shall be immediately isolated and shall receive
treatment by a licensed veterinarian, or euthanized by same. Euthanasia. of any
domestic animal. shall be performed by a licensed veterinarian. The reason and
the procedure used for such euthanasia shall be documented. Upon receipt of a
signed report or complaint alleging animal abuse or other conditions not in
compliance with this chapter at any commercial animal establishment, an
investigation shall be made by Animal Control. Its findings shall be
documented, and appropriate action taken.
   C.   Commercial Establishment A includes, but is not limited to, stables,
boarding facilities, grooming, bathing facilities, carriage horse or pony
service or sentry or guard dog service. All operators of a Type A establishment
shall apply to the City Clerk for a permit to operate such establishment in the
city. No Type A establishment shall operate except veterinarian clinics without
this permit There will be two inspections; one before the permit is issued and
one three months after the establishment is open to the public. The Type A
establishments must have a veterinarian on contract with their facility to
ensure the safe keeping of the public’s pets. The City Clerk shall perform a
background check encompassing the past ten years, to ascertain if the applicant
has been convicted of animal abuse, animal cruelty or other city charges in
that time. Conviction of any animal charges shall be grounds for denial or
revocation of a commercial animal establishment permit The permit fee shall be
$50 annually. An application processing fee of $20 shall be assessed for the
first application. If the applicant is a corporation, then the background check
required by this subsection will be done on the manager of the establishment,
and the city has the ability to do a background check on any employee that
directly handles animals at this establishment Each time the manager of the
establishment changes, a new background check will be required and a background
check fee of $20 shall be assessed.
   D.   Commercial Establishment B includes, but is not limited to, any
business keeping animals in stock for retail or wholesale trade, wholesale
distributors, pet stores, stockyards, breeders and hatcheries. All operators of
a Type B establishment shall apply to the City Clerk for a permit to operate
such establishment in the city. The City Clerk shall perform a background check
encompassing the past ten years, to ascertain if the applicant has been
convicted of animal abuse, animal cruelty or other city charges in that time.
Conviction of any animal charges shall be grounds for denial or revocation of a
commercial animal establishment permit The applicant shall provide proof that
the establishment has a veterinarian on contract to see the animals. There will
be two inspections: one before the permit is issued and one three months after
the establishment is open to the public. The permit fee shall be $50 annually.
An application processing fee of $20 shall be assessed for the first
application. If the applicant is a corporation, then the background check
required by this subsection will be done on the manager of the establishment,
and the city has the ability to do a background check on any employee that
directly handles animals at this establishment. Each time the manager of the
establishment changes, a new background check will be required and a background
check fee of $20 shall be assessed.
   E.   Type B establishments must have on the premises all registration papers
for animals kept on the premises. Registration papers may include, but not
limited to, where the animals were purchased or breeders name and the state
where the animal was born, or animals origin except those when attached to a
contract of sale. All vaccination (including, but not limited to, rabies and
first distemper, parvo, leptospira and grippotyphosa) shot and other medical
care of such animals shall be current and the purchaser shall receive a
complete health record on the animal purchased. The establishment shall upon
request from an Animal Control Officer provide proof of such documents. The
establishment must have a “quarantine area” for sick or injured animals. This
area is to be separate from the healthy animals and public to prevent the
spread of any disease or illness. If not in compliance the establishment is
found to be in violation of this chapter. At no time are the animals allowed to
be outside for showing of sale. There are no kennels allowed to be placed
outside the establishment. All animals are to be kept inside the establishment
to avoid any nuisance to the public. All of the reptiles and rodents must be
kept in appropriate cages to avoid escape. Any establishment that sells any
animal found to be illegal in the city ordinances, state or federal laws will
result in their permit being revoked. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-32: DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS:
When any animal within the corporate limits of the city shall be so wounded,
maimed, sick, diseased or injured as to render its recovery hopeless in the
opinion of Animal Control or licensed veterinarian, then it shall become the
duty of Animal Control to kill or euthanize or cause to be killed or euthanized
such animal as soon as practicable, in such manner as in his judgment shall be
the least painful. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-33: PROHIBITING SALE OF ANIMALS IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to display, give away or offer to give
away, sell, barter, trade, lease any animal on any public right-of-way,
commercial parking lot or at any flea market or festival; provided, however,
that this section shall not apply to any nonprofit organization founded for the
purpose of providing humane sanctuary or shelter for abandoned or unwanted
animals. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-34: REQUIREMENTS FOR KEEPING CATTLE, HORSES, SHEEP, GOATS:
It is unlawful for any person to keep or maintain or permit or suffer to be
kept on any property or premises within the corporate limits of the city,
unless the following conditions and requirements are maintained:
   A.   The areas are zoned for agricultural use.
   B.   The enclosure in which such animal is kept is maintained in a sanitary
condition and not offensive or dangerous to the public health;
   C.   The enclosure in which any such animal is kept shall not be less than
100 square feet in area for one such animal including the space .covered by a
bam or shed. For each additional animal at least 15,000 square feet of
additional enclosure shall be provided;
   D.   The enclosure where such animal is kept shall not be at its nearest
point closer than 50 feet to any building used or occupied for human
habitation, and the bam or shed in such enclosure shall not be closer than 75
feet at its nearest point to any building used or occupied for human
habitation; and
   E.   The fence must be secure so that the animals are not at large or become
a nuisance. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-35: NUISANCE CATTLE, HORSES, SHEEP, GOATS, POULTRY, PIGEONS, DOVES AND
RABBITS INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, REPTILES, EXOTIC AND WILD ANIMALS:
   A.   An officer of the city, or any citizen, may initiate a municipal court
proceeding to determine whether any cattle, horses, sheep, goats, poultry,
pigeons, doves and rabbits including reptiles, exotic and wild by nature
animals are a “nuisance,” “potentially dangerous” or “dangerous” by filing a
complaint with municipal court prosecutor.
   B.   Upon the issuance of summons and notice to the owner, and upon the
conclusion of a hearing, the judge of the municipal court is authorized to
enter a finding on the complaint and, if finding that the animal in question is
a “nuisance,” “potentially dangerous” or “dangerous”, may order:
      1.   The payment of court costs and fines allowed by law;
      2.   The installation of fencing, restraints or enclosures in such a
manner to provide the degree of protection warranted by the danger presented;
      3.   The owner to obtain a policy of liability insurance in the amount
deemed necessary to protect the public from any injuries inflicted on the
public by the dangerous animal;
      4.   The removal of the animal from the city limits; and
      5.   The confiscation and/or destruction of the animals. (Ord. 312, 1-4-
2018)
5-3-36: CITY REGISTRATION FEE: CATTLE, HORSES, SHEEP AND GOATS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to keep any cow, horse, sheep or goat of
any kind within limits of the city who does not possess an unrevoked permit
from the City Clerk covering the premises where such animal is kept
   B.   Only persons who comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be
entitled to receive and retain such permits.
   C.   The City Clerk shall collect a permit and license fee of $25 for each
such premises.
   D.   The applicant must provide:
      1.   Number of animals housed on the property;
      2.   Square footage of property where animals will be kept; and
      3.   Proof of stable, barn or shed provided for animals. (Ord. 312, 1-4-
2018)
5-3-37: REQUIREMENTS FOR KEEPING POULTRY, PIGEONS, DOVES AND RABBITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or permit or suffer to be
maintained any poultry, pigeons, doves or rabbits upon any property or premises
within the corporate limits of the city except as provided herein.
   A.   Poultry kept in areas zoned for agriculture (AG) must be kept in pens
or buildings located at least 100 feet from any adjoining property line.
   B.   Poultry kept in areas not zoned for agriculture shall not be kept in a
building, pen or yard which at its nearest point is no closer than 50 feet to
any adjoining property line. They shall be kept under the following conditions.
      1.   The poultry or fowl shall not exceed 10 hens.
      2.   The floors of such building shall be of easily-cleanable
construction, and shall be maintained in a sanitary condition not offensive or
dangerous to the public health. Routinely cleaning and properly disposing of
the droppings is mandatory.
      3.   The outside openings of the buildings shall be screened to prevent
the spread of disease by flies and vermin.
   C.   Rabbits kept in areas zoned for agriculture (AG) must be in pens or
buildings located at least 100 feet from any adjoining property line.
   D.   Rabbits kept in areas not zoned for agriculture shall not be kept in a
building, pen or yard which at its nearest point is no closer than 50 feet to
any adjoining property line. They shall be kept under the following conditions.
      1.   Shall not exceed 10 rabbits.
      2.   The floors of such building shall be of easily-cleanable
construction, and shall be maintained in a sanitary condition not offensive or
dangerous to the public health. Routinely cleaning and properly disposing of
the droppings is mandatory.
      3.   The outside openings of the buildings shall be screened to prevent
the spread of disease by flies and vermin.
   E.   Housing for the pigeons and doves shall be sized to allow one square
foot of floor space and a minimum of once cubic foot of volume per animal
housed with a maximum of 12 birds allowed. The structure shall not be located
nearer than 50 feet to any adjoining property line.
   F.   Pigeons shall be confined to the loft except for limited periods for
exercise. At no time shall pigeons be allowed to perch on property other than
that on which they are maintained pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 312, 1-4-
2018)
5-3-38: WILD BY NATURE AND EXOTIC ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, maintain or have
in his possession or under his control within the city, any poisonous reptile
or other wild by nature animal, insect or other exotic animal not generally
recognized to be domesticated or which, because of size, vicious nature or any
other characteristic, presents a danger to human beings, and shall include, but
not be limited to:
      1.   The following member of the Class Mammalia:
         a.   Order Carnivore.
            (1)   Family Felidae. Cougars, lions, panthers, tigers, jaguars,
leopards, bobcats, lynxes, cheetahs, servals, ocelots and margays except
commonly accepted domesticated cats.
            (2)   Family Ursidae. Bears.
            (3)   Family Canidae. Wolves, coyotes, jackals, dingoes, foxes and
African wild dogs, to include any canine hybrid mix, to include, but riot be
limited to, wolf, coyote or dingo mix hybrid.
            (4)   Family Mustelidae. Weasels, martins, minks, badgers and
skunks.
            (4)   Family Procyonidae. Raccoon.
         b.   Order Chiroptera. Bats.
         c.   Order Edentata. Sloths, anteaters and armadillos.
         d.   Order Marsupialia. Kangaroos and common opossums.
         e.   Order Proboscidea. Elephants.
         f.   Order Primate. Monkeys, chimpanzees and gorillas.
         g.   Order Rodent. Beavers, muskrats and porcupines.
         h.   Order Ungulate. Antelope, deer, bison and camels.
      2.   The following members of the Class Aves.
         a.   Order Falconiformes. Hawks, eagles, falcons and vultures which
are not kept pursuant to federal or state permits.
         b.   Subdivision Ratitae. Ostriches, rheas, cassowaries and emus.
      3.   Any species of animal which is venomous to human beings whether its
venom is transmitted by bite, sting, touch or other means to include the
keeping of bees whether for commercial purposes or hobby; except domestic
honeybees under the circumstances hereinafter provided, to-wit:
         a.   No more than two hives shall be maintained for each one-fourth
acre or less of lot size on any lot;
         b.   No hives shall be maintained within 20 feet of any lot line of
the lot on which the hive is located;
         c.   Between each hive and the neighboring lot in the direction of the
hive entrance, the hive owner shall maintain the hedge or a screening fence
that is at least six feet in height, to be located within 20 feet of such lot
line and to extend the entire length of such lot line;
         d.   A supply of clean water must be furnished within 20 feet of each
hive at all times March 1 and October 31 of each year;
         e.   Hive owners shall inspect each hive not less than four times
between March and October 31 of each year. A written record, including the date
of each such inspection, shall be maintained by the owner and shall be made
available to the Jay Animal Control Officers upon request; and
         f.   The hive owner shall provide written notification to the City
Clerk and Chief of Police of the city as to the existence of the hive, as well
as certify as to notification of adjoining property owners of the existence of
the hive. Hive owner shall place written notification on the property in a
conspicuous place so as to inform the public of the existence of the bee hive.
      4.   Any species of animal when kept, maintained or harbored in such
number or in such manner as to constitute the likelihood of danger to the
animals themselves, to human beings or to the property of human beings.
   B.   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to menageries,
zoological gardens, exotic animal shows or sales and circuses, if:
      1.   Their location conforms to the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance of
the city;
      2.   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
conditions and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors;
      3.   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent
their escape: and, if and in the event of escape; the owner or custodian of
such animal immediately notifies the Animal Control Officer;
      4.   No person lives or resides within 100 feet of the quarters in which
the animals are kept; and
      5.   All animals wild by nature or exotic that are impounded by the
Animal Control Officer shall be returned to habitat, destroyed or donated to a
zoo. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-39: ACCEPTABLE REPTILES:
   A.   The species in the families of reptiles listed in this section may be
possessed and\or housed in the city. Reptiles must be under restraint on
owner’s property unless being transported.
*NOTE: Any reptiles being allowed by the city must still be possessed in
accordance with any and all state and federal regulations that may apply.
      1.   The lizards: Order Squamata. Suborder Sauria:
         a.   Family Gekkonidae - Geckos;
         b.   Family Agamidae - Agamas;
         c.   Family Iguanidae - Aniles, swifts, iguanas;
         d.   Family Teiidae - Striped lizards, racerunners;
         e.   Family Chamaeleonidae - Chameleons;
         f.   Family Scincidae - Skinks; and
         g.   Family Gerrhosaurdae - Plated lizards.
      2.   The snakes - Order Squamata. Suborder Ophida:
         a.   Family Leptotyphlopidae - typholpidae, worm snakes;
         b.   Family Boidae - Boas pythons; and
         c.   Family Colubridae, sub family Colubrinae, (no poison conducting
teeth). This group contains garter, water, gopher, bull rainbow, hognose, ring
neck and green snakes plus rat snakes, king snakes, com snakes and reces and
the like.
      3.   The turtles and tortoises - Order Testudines.
         a.   Family Kinosternidae - Musk turtle;
         b.   Family Platysternidae - Big head turtle;
         c.   Family Emudidae - Tortoise and the like;
         d.   Family Trionychidae - Soft shelled turtle;
         e.   Family Pelomedusidae - Flat headed turtle; and
         f.   Family Chelidae - Sie necked turtle.
   B.   All owners of acceptable reptiles must obtain a permit for such animal
through the Jay Animal Shelter. There will be no charge for such permit. All
owners or custodians of acceptable reptiles must immediately notify the Animal
Control Officer if such reptiles escape.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor and possess in any
one household more than a total of six reptiles of any kind. (Ord. 312, 1-4-
2018)
5-3-40: PROHIBITED REPTILES:
The species in the families of reptiles listed in this section are prohibited
in the city.
   A.   Family Chelydridae - Snapping turtle.
   B.   The Alligators, Caimans, and Crocodiles - Order Crochodylia.
   C.   The Lizards - Oder Squamata; Suborder Ophidia.
   D.   Family Elapidae - Cobras.
   E.   Family Hydrophiidae - Sea snakes.
   F.   Family Viperidae - Vipers.
   G.   Family Crotalidae - Pit vipers.
   H.   Family Colubridae, sub family Disadomorphinae, rear fang snakes and the
specific species: Dispholidus typus, the Boomslang; Thebtornis Kirklandi,
African bird eating snake; Boiga dendrophilia, the Mangrove snake. (Ord. 312,
1-4-2018)
5-3-41: HABITAT FOR REPTILES:
   A.   Recognizing that reptiles differ from other animals in handling
techniques, the sections listed below must be followed to allow anyone to
possess and\or house reptiles in the city.
   B.   All reptiles held as pets or specimens in the city must be contained
within secure habitats capable of preventing escape. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-42: TRANSPORTING AND HANDLING OF REPTILES:
   A.   Reptiles being transported in Jay will be secured within escape-proof
containers.
   B.   Acceptable reptiles may be handled openly if the handler is
demonstrating the reptile for sale within a retail business establishment
approved for sale of such reptiles.
   C.   Reptiles shall not be handled openly in public places, e.g. parks,
schools, shopping areas and the like.
   D.   Prior approval and notification of the Animal Control Officer must be
made before conducting any educational programs utilizing reptiles within the
Jay city limits. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
5-3-43: RELEASE OF REPTILES.
   A.   Reptiles not indigenous to the State of Oklahoma, shall not be released
or abandoned by their owners and/or their handlers in the city.
   B.   Any species of reptiles not indigenous to the State of Oklahoma which
may be secured by, or forfeited to Animal Control shall be turned over to a zoo
or a reptile rescue organization for proper disposition, or if necessary may be
destroyed as deemed proper by Animal Control.
   C.   Species indigenous to the State of Oklahoma which are secured by Animal
Control may be released to the wild as Animal Control deems proper. (Ord. 312,
1-4-2018)
5-3-44: MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES:
Whenever the city provides a service in connection with the regulation and
control of animals within the city, a fair and reasonable fee therefor shall be
charged to whoever requested such service. The City Clerk shall determine the
amount of such fees based on prevailing costs to the city of providing such
service and/or equipment. Provided, nothing herein shall require or mandate
provision of any such service to the public. Services or equipment for which
fees shall be charged shall include, but not be limited to, burial, euthanasia
and loan of traps. (Ord. 312, 1-4-2018)
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Registration Required; Fees; Tag And Collar
5-3A-2: Kennel Requirements; Tax
5-3A-3: Term Of Vaccination And License
5-3A-4: Rabies Vaccination
5-3A-1: REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEES; TAG AND COLLAR:
   A.   Registration; Fees: Every person owning, keeping or harboring within
the city limits a dog or cat over the age of six (6) months shall cause to be
registered the name and description of such dog or cat in a book to be kept by
the city clerk for that purpose, not later than December 31 of each year, and
shall pay each year to the city clerk, be registering such animal, a fee of
five dollars ($5.00) for each neutered animal registered, and a fee of ten
dollars ($10.00) for each unneutered animal registered. (Fees shall be reduced
by 1/2 to owners 65 years or older.) (1985 Code ch. 3 § 3-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Tag And Collar: Each dog or cat so registered shall wear a suitable
metallic or leather collar, with a metallic tag or check, the tag to be
furnished by the city clerk and on which tag the number and year of
registration shall be clearly marked. (1985 Code ch. 3 § 3-1)
   C.   Clerk Keep Registration Book: In the event the fees herein provided are
not paid before December 31 of each year, the fee shall be at the rate of ten
dollars ($10.00) for each neutered animal and twenty dollars ($20.00) for each
unneutered animal registered; provided, that this additional fee shall not
apply if the same be registered within sixty (60) days from the date such
animal is brought into the city, or said animal becomes six (6) months of age.
(1985 Code ch. 3 § 3-2; amd. 2016 Code)
5-3A-2: KENNEL REQUIREMENTS; TAX:
Any person owning and/or operating a kennel of dogs within the city and keeping
said dogs confined and not permitting any of them to run at large may, in lieu
of the tax on each individual dog, pay a dog kennel tax in the sum of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) each year for all of his dogs collectively so kept in
such kennel; provided, that if at any time any such kennel dog shall escape or
be permitted to run at large temporarily or otherwise, each and every one if
such dogs so running at large shall be subject to the same treatment and
penalties heretofore provided as though no tax had been paid on such dog.
Provided further, that rabies immunization records are maintained by the
licensee. (1985 Code ch. 3 § 3-3; amd. 2016 Code)
5-3A-3: TERM OF VACCINATION AND LICENSE:
All dogs and cats vaccinated and licensed as herein provided after January 1 of
any year shall not be required to be vaccinated or have any additional license
issued for them until the vaccination period of the next succeeding calendar
year. (1985 Code ch. 3 § 3-4)
5-3A-4: RABIES VACCINATION:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to own or harbor any dog or
cat over the age of six (6) months in the city, which has not been properly
immunized against rabies by vaccination, at least once in each year, as herein
provided. The owners and keepers of all animals, either male or female, in the
city, are hereby required to have such animals vaccinated against rabies by
some licensed veterinarian, between January 1 and December 31 in each year, and
to procure the veterinarian's certificate of vaccination for the same. He shall
present the certificate on or before December 31 in each year to the city clerk
who shall register such vaccination by noting in the animal tax register in an
appropriate column the date of such vaccination and the veterinarian who
administered the vaccine. Such registered certificate shall be in force until
December 31 in the succeeding year. In all cases where vaccinations and
registrations are made at other times than during the established vaccination
and registration period, they shall be of force and effect until the next
succeeding January 1. (1985 Code ch. 3 § 3-5; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Policy
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Unlawful Practice
5-4-4: Sale Or Rental Of Housing
5-4-5: Financing Of Housing
5-4-6: Brokerage Services
5-4-7: Exemption
5-4-8: Administration
5-4-9: Education And Conciliation
5-4-10: Complaint Procedure
5-4-11: Investigations; Subpoenas; Giving Of Evidence
5-4-12: Enforcement By Private Persons
5-4-13: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation
5-4-14: Prevention Of Intimidation In Fair Housing Cases
5-4-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations, for
fair housing throughout the city. (Ord. 210, 6-1-1992)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under sections
5-4-4,
5-4-5, and
5-4-6 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupants. (Ord.
210, 6-1-1992)
5-4-3: UNLAWFUL PRACTICE:
Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section and section
5-4-7 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
   A.   Dwellings: All dwellings except as exempted by subsection B of this
section.
   B.   Exemptions: Nothing in section
5-4-4 of this chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-
family houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale
of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in
such house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of
such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any twenty four (24) month
period; provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not
own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any
express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three (3) such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, that the sale or rental of any such
single-family house shall be excepted from the application of this title only
if such house is sold or rented: a) without the use in any manner of the sales
or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker,
agent, or salesman, or of such facilities or services of any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent, salesman, or person; and b) without the publication,
posting or mailing after notice of any advertisement or written notice in
violation of subsection
5-4-4C of this chapter, but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   C.   Business Of Selling Or Renting Dwellings: For the purposes of
subsection B of this section, a person shall be deemed to be in the business of
selling or renting dwellings if:
      1.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      2.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      3.   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (Ord. 210, 6-1-1992)
5-4-4: SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
As made applicable by section
5-4-3 of this chapter and except as exempted by subsection
5-4-3B and section
5-4-7 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, disability, or familial status.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, disability, or familial status.
   C.   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, or familial
status or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, disability, or familial status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, gender, color,
religion, national origin, age, disability, or familial status. (Ord. 210, 6-1-
1992; amd. 2016 Code)
5-4-5: FINANCING OF HOUSING:
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age,
disability, or familial status of such person or of any person associated with
him in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purpose
of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective
owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation
to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given;
provided, that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or
effectiveness of the exception contained in subsection
5-4-3B of this chapter. (Ord. 210, 6-1-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
5-4-6: BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, or
familial status. (Ord. 210, 6-1-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
5-4-7: EXEMPTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association,
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association,
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental
or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its
members. (Ord. 210, 6-1-1992)
5-4-8: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Authority For Administration: The authority and responsibility for
administering this chapter shall be in the mayor.
   B.   Delegation Of Duties:
      1.   The mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties, and powers to
employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including functions,
duties, and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing,
determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to any
work, business, or matter under this chapter.
      2.   The mayor shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to other
officers in the city, to boards of officers or to himself, as shall be
appropriate and in accordance with law.
   C.   Executive Departments, Agencies: All executive departments and agencies
shall administer their programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the mayor to further such purposes. (Ord. 210, 6-1-
1992; amd. 2016 Code)
5-4-9: EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION:
Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the mayor shall commence such
educational and conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of this
chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing industry and other
interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of this chapter and his
suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor with their advice to
work out programs of voluntary compliance and of enforcement. (Ord. 210, 6-1-
1992; amd. 2016 Code)
5-4-10: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing Of Complaint; Investigation; Resolution:
      1.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice, that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the mayor.
      2.   Complaints shall be in writing and shall contain such information
and be in such form as the mayor requires.
      3.   Upon receipt of such a complaint, the mayor shall furnish a copy of
the same to the person or persons who allegedly committed or are about to
commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice.
      4.   Within thirty (30) days after receiving a complaint, or within
thirty (30) days after the expiration of any period of reference under
subsection C of this section, the mayor shall investigate the complaints, and
give notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he intends to resolve
it.
      5.   If the mayor decides to resolve the complaint, he shall proceed to
try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by
informal methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said or
done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made public or used as
evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter without the written
consent of the persons concerned.
      6.   Any employee of the mayor who shall make public any information in
violation of this provision shall be (upon conviction) fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 210, 6-1-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Time Limit; Responses:
      1.   A complaint under subsection A of this section shall be filed within
one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred.
      2.   Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which
the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based.
      3.   Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. (Ord.
210, 6-1-1992)
      4.   A respondent may file an answer to the complaint against him and
with the leave of the mayor, which shall be granted whenever it would be
reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his answer at any time.
      5.   Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   C.   Failure To Obtain Voluntary Compliance: If within thirty (30) days
after a complaint is filed with the mayor, the mayor has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within thirty
(30) days thereafter, file a complaint with the secretary of the department of
housing and urban development. The mayor will assist in this filing.
   D.   Civil Action:
      1.   If the mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within
thirty (30) days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within thirty (30)
days hereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
(Ord. 210, 6-1-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has
occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from
engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   E.   Burden Of Proof: In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section,
the burden of proof shall be on the complainant. (Ord. 210, 6-1-1992)
   F.   Trial: Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial,
the mayor shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance. (Ord. 210, 6-1-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
5-4-11: INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE:
   A.   Investigations; Access To Records:
      1.   In conducting an investigation, the mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals, and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy such
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided
however, that the mayor first complies with the provisions of the fourth
amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures.
      2.   The mayor may issue subpoenas to compel his access to or the
production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and may issue
interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of the civil action in the United States district court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place.
      3.   The mayor may administer oaths.
   B.   Respondent; Subpoenas:
      1.   Upon written application to the mayor, a respondent shall be
entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the name
of the mayor to the same extent and subject to the same limitation as subpoenas
issued by the mayor himself.
      2.   Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their
face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they were
issued at his request.
   C.   Witness Fees:
      1.   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
district courts.
      2.   Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him.
   D.   Petition To Revoke Or Modify Subpoena:
      1.   Within five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person,
such person may petition the mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena.
      2.   The mayor shall grant the petition if he finds that the subpoena
requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it
requires production of evidence which does not relate to any matter under
investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient particularity the
evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other
good reason.
   E.   Refusal To Obey Subpoena: In case of contumacy refusal to obey a
subpoena, the mayor or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which
the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts
business.
   F.   Failure To Testify Or Produce Documents:
      1.   Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or
to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other
evidence, if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful
order of the mayor shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the mayor, shall make
or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report,
account, record, or other document submitted to the mayor pursuant to his
subpoena or other order, or shall wilfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true, and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records, or
other documents, or shall wilfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   G.   City Attorney; Litigation: The city attorney shall conduct all
litigation in which the mayor participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to
this chapter. (Ord. 210, 6-1-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
5-4-12: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   Civil Action: The rights granted by sections
5-4-3,
5-4-4,
5-4-5, and
5-4-6 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts
of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred;
provided, however, that the court shall continue such civil case brought
pursuant to this section or subsection
5-4-10D of this chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if the
court believes that the conciliation efforts of the mayor are likely to result
in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of
in the complaint made to the mayor and which practice forms the basis for the
action in court; and, provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance, or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority
of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrances, or tenant
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected. (Ord. 210,
6-1-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Temporary Injunction, Restraining Order; Award Damages: The court may
grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent or temporary
injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may award to the
plaintiff actual damages and not more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the
case of a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the said plaintiff in the
opinion of the court is not financially able to assume said attorney fees.
(2016 Code)
5-4-13: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by sections
5-4-3 through
5-4-6 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (2016 Code)
5-4-14: PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES:
Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force,
wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of his race, gender, color, religion, national
origin, age, disability, or familial status and because he is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or (2016
Code)
   B.   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, gender,
color, religion, national origin, age, disability, or familial status, in any
of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
subsection A of this section; or
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   C.   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate without discrimination on account of race, gender, color,
religion, national origin, age, disability, or familial status, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A of
this section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to so participate shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code; and if bodily injury results, shall also be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 210, 6-1-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TOBACCO USE PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Prohibited Conduct
5-5-3: Required Signs
5-5-4: Penalties And Enforcement
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   INDOOR AREA: Any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the public,
at all times, regardless of whether work is being performed. Indoor Area
includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms,
employee cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees,
as well as all space between a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or
totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or
closed windows, stairways, or the like.
   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY: All buildings, Indoor Areas, and Outdoor Areas,
including but not limited to recreational areas, and other property, or
portions thereof, owned or operated by the City of Jay including but not
limited to vehicles and equipment owned by the municipality.
   OUTDOOR AREA: Any area that is not an Indoor Area and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
   SMOKING: The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
other lighted smoking device.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption. Tobacco Product does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product.
   VAPOR PRODUCT: Any noncombustible product, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. Vapor Product shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic device. (Ord. 337, 8-5-
2019; amd. Ord. 346, 1-6-2020)
5-5-2: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   No person is allowed to Smoke Tobacco Products in any places in which
Smoking Tobacco Products Is prohibited by Oklahoma state law.
   B.   No person is allowed to Smoke or use Tobacco Products and/or Vapor
Products on any Municipal Property, Indoor and outdoor, including parks and
recreational areas.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter prohibits any person or entity from prohibiting
Smoking or the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products on their property,
even if the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products is not otherwise
prohibited in that area.
   D.   No person or entity shall knowingly permit Smoking or the use of
Tobacco Products or Vapor Products in an area that is under their control, if
the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products is prohibited by law in that
area.
   E.   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash receptacles, such
as ash trays or ash cans, within an area under the control of that person or
entity and in which Smoking is prohibited by law. However, the presence of ash
receptacles shall not be a defense to a charge of the use of Tobacco Products
or Vapor Products in violation of any provision of this chapter
   F.   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten, or otherwise retaliate
against another person or entity that seeks to attain compliance with the
chapter. (Ord. 337, 8-5-2019; amd. Ord. 346, 1-6-2020; Ord. 361, 7-5-2022)
5-5-3: REQUIRED SIGNS:
   A.   The person or entity that has legal or de facto control of an area in
which the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products is prohibited by this
chapter shall post a clear, conspicuous, and unambiguous sign at each point of
entry to the area, and in at least one other conspicuous point within the area.
   B.   For restrictions on the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products in
Indoor Areas, the sign or decal shall be at least 4 inches by 2 inches in size
and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that a
tobacco-free environment is provided. For restrictions on the use of Tobacco
Products or Vapor Products in Outdoor Areas, signs shall be weather-resistant,
at least 15 inches by 15 inches in size, with lettering of at least 1 inch, and
shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that a
tobacco-free environment is provided.
   C.   For purposes of this section, the City Mayor or his/her designee shall
be    responsible for the posting of signs on Municipal Property, both indoor
and outdoor.
   D.   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall
not be a defense to a charge of the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products
in violation of any other provision of this chapter. (Ord. 337, 8-5-2019; amd.
Ord. 346, 1-6-2020)
5-5-4: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Jay Police
Department In addition, any peace officer or code enforcement official may
enforce this chapter. (Ord. 337, 8-5-2019; amd. Ord. 346, 1-6-2020)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CONTROL; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Vehicle Code Adopted
6-1-2: Traffic Control
6-1-3: Authority Of Police And Fire Departments
6-1-4: Public Officers And Employees Obey Traffic Regulations
6-1-5: Licensing Requirements; Restrictions
6-1-6: Accidents
6-1-7: Unauthorized Signals
6-1-8: Official Traffic Control Devices
6-1-9: Temporary Signs
6-1-10: Handling Pushcarts, Animals Or Animal Drawn Vehicles
6-1-11: Use Of Coasters, Roller Skates And Similar Devices
6-1-12: Persons Working On Streets; Exceptions
6-1-13: Maintenance And Construction Zones
6-1-14: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-1-15: Citations And Impoundment Of Vehicles
6-1-16: Violations; Penalties; Court Records
6-1-1: STATE VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
The provisions of the state motor vehicle code, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
101 et seq., are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and are
enforceable by the city within the city limits as fully as if set out at length
herein. One copy of the adopted statutes shall be and remain on file in the
office of the city clerk for examination by the public. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-
2; amd. 2016 Code)
6-1-2: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
All traffic shall be controlled in the city limits by ordinances of the city.
No person shall direct or attempt to direct traffic except police officers, or
officers duly commissioned in an emergency. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-1)
6-1-3: AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS:
   A.   General Control: It shall be the duty of the police department of the
city to enforce all of the provisions of this title. All traffic shall be
directed by officers of the police department, either in person or by means of
visible, audible or mechanical signals, in accordance with the provisions of
this title; provided, however, that in the event of an emergency, as herein
defined, or other unusual traffic conditions, to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the police or fire departments may direct and take control of
traffic when conditions may require on account of such emergency and as near as
practicable follow the general provisions of this title in protecting life and
property.
   B.   Required Obedience To Traffic Regulations: It is a misdemeanor for any
person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this
title.
   C.   Obedience To Police And Fire Officials: No person shall wilfully fail
or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of the city police or
firefighters. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-2)
6-1-4: PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the service of the United States government, any state, county,
city, or other governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles; and
it shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the provisions of
this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title or by state statute;
provided, that this title shall not apply to the military forces of the United
States and organizations of the national guard when performing any military
duty. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-8)
6-1-5: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Licensing Vehicles: Vehicles operated on the streets of the city shall
be licensed as required by state law. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 6-5)
   B.   Driver's License Required: It is unlawful for any person who has not
obtained a valid driver's license as required by state law for operating a
vehicle upon the state highways to operate a motor vehicle within the city, or
to operate a motor vehicle within the city in violation of any restriction
applied to the driver's license, or to operate a vehicle within the city while
under an order of suspension or revocation issued and still in force by the
department of public safety of the state of Oklahoma. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 6-6)
   C.   Minimum Age: No person who is under the age of fifteen and one-half
(151/2) years shall operate a motor vehicle of any type on the streets or
highways of the city, provided nothing herein is intended to prohibit the use
of motor scooters or other modes of conveyance of five (5) horsepower or less
as permitted by the laws of the state. Persons sixteen (16) years of age or
over may operate any mode of conveyance of five (5) horsepower or more on the
streets and highways of the city when so licensed to do so by the laws of the
state. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 15-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Driving Without License: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person to operate a motor vehicle upon the streets of the city without having
in his possession a valid driver's license for the type of vehicle which he or
she is operating. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 15-1)
   E.   Permitting Unauthorized Person To Drive:
      1.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to cause or
knowingly permit his child or ward under the age of sixteen (16) years to drive
a motor vehicle on any of the city streets, when such minor is not authorized
to do so by the provisions of the laws of the state. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 15-2)
      2.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to authorize or
knowingly permit any vehicle owned by him or under his control to be driven on
any street, alley, highway or public place in the city by any person who is not
authorized under the laws of the state to operate such vehicle. (1985 Code ch.
20 §§ 6-7, 15-2)
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to lend, sell or otherwise authorize
another person the use of a valid driver's license while such other person is
under an order of revocation or suspension or otherwise not entitled to a valid
driver's license. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 6-7)
6-1-6: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Duty To Stop: The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident
resulting in injury to or death or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto
as possible; shall then forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain
at, the scene of the accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of this
section. Every stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 17-2)
   B.   Giving Information And Aid: The driver of any vehicle involved in an
accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle
which is driven or attended by any person shall give his name, address and the
registration number of the vehicle he is driving, and shall, upon request and
if available, exhibit his operator's or chauffeur's license to the person
struck, or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided
with, and shall render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying or making arrangements for the carrying of
such person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical
treatment, if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such
carrying is requested by the injured person. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 17-1)
   C.   Reports:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle involved in any accident shall, within
forty eight (48) hours, report such accident to the police dispatcher at the
police department and make a full report upon the forms to be provided by the
police department; provided, further, that in any accident where death or
personal injury is involved, the driver or drivers of the vehicles shall
immediately report the same to the police and shall in all cases remain at the
scene of the accident until police officers have arrived. (1985 Code ch. 20 §
17-3)
      2.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is
apparent that damage to one vehicle or other property is in excess of three
hundred dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident
to a police officer or to the police department. Making out a written report of
the accident in the office of the police department as soon as practicable
after the accident, to be forwarded to the department of public safety of the
state in accordance with law, shall also be deemed compliance with this
subsection. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-13; amd. 2016 Code)
6-1-7: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS:
No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any street or
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device which
attempts to or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic
control device; and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public
authority permit, upon any street any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon
any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection
on private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs. Every
such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and the street department is hereby empowered to remove the same, or
cause it to be removed without notice. Business or professional signs in
established places of business or professions are authorized. (1985 Code ch. 20
§ 2-3)
6-1-8: OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   The mayor shall place and maintain, or cause to be placed and
maintained, traffic control devices when and as required under the traffic
ordinances of the city to make effective the provisions of this title, and may
place and maintain such additional traffic control devices as may be directed
by the city council to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the
city or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
   B.   In this connection as and for the purpose of civil defense, the city
council may direct the mayor to place, or cause to be placed, such civil
defense signs as may be authorized by the federal or state government or which
the city council, in the best interest of the health and safety of the citizens
of the city, deem necessary. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
6-1-9: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
The chief of police is hereby authorized to erect or install temporarily,
during short periods of traffic congestion or abnormal traffic conditions,
signs prohibiting or indicating required movements of traffic or prohibiting or
indicating required parking of vehicles. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-5)
6-1-10: HANDLING PUSHCARTS, ANIMALS OR ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-6)
6-1-11: USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES:
No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar devices shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing, such person shall be granted all
of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a
play street. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-7; amd. 2016 Code)
6-1-12: PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS:
Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title, except those
relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not apply to
persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in
work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles, and other
equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance, or repair of
public utilities; provided, that all street and public utility operations shall
be protected by adequate warning signals, devices, or flagmen; but the
provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-9)
6-1-13: MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
   A.   Authority To Close Streets: City personnel or contractors, while
repairing or improving the streets of the city, utility personnel and utility
companies, when installing, improving or repairing lines or other utility
facilities in the streets, are hereby authorized as necessary, subject to
control by the mayor, to close any street, or section thereof, to traffic
during such repair, maintenance or construction; and in exercising such
authority, shall erect, or cause to be erected, proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that said street has been closed to
traffic. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-10; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Driving Restrictions: When any street has been closed to traffic under
the provisions of subsection A of this section and traffic control devices or
barricades have been erected, it shall be unlawful around such traffic control
devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter said closed area; except that the
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons while engaged in such
construction, maintenance and repair, or to persons entering therein for the
protection of lives or property; provided, that persons having their places of
residence or places of business within such closed areas may travel, when
possible to do so, through such area at their own risk.
   C.   Construction Under Traffic: Whenever construction, repair, or
maintenance of any street or utility line or facility is being performed under
traffic, the city department head, contractor or utility company concerned
shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic control devices to warn and guide
the public; and every person using such street shall obey all signs, signals,
markings, flagmen or other traffic control devices which are placed to
regulate, control and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-10)
6-1-14: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Drivers Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire
alarm may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
      2.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         a.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits to the extent provided by state
statutes, so long as he does not endanger life or property.
      3.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of any said vehicle is making use of audible
and visible signals as required by law, except that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red
light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      4.   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1985 Code ch.
20 § 2-11)
   B.   Vehicle Operation On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle:
      1.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws
of the state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of
way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
      2.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 2-12)
6-1-15: CITATIONS AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Citations; Appearance Of Violators:
      1.   Issuance Of Citation: The chief of police is hereby authorized and
directed to supply police officers with citation books for the purpose of
giving notice to persons violating any provisions of this title. Such notice
may be given by delivering such citations to the violator or by affixing it to
the vehicle by means of which the violation occurred. Such citation shall
direct the violator to appear and to present such citation at a designated
place on or before a date and hour specified thereon. Failure to appear as
directed by the citation is a violation of this title and punishable by fine.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a police
officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
      2.   Failure To Comply With Citation: If a violator of any provision of
this title who has been given a citation as provided above fails to appear in
accordance with the instructions on such citation, the chief of police or his
authorized agent shall send to the owner of the vehicle involved a letter or
other written notice, or both, informing him of the violation and warning him
to appear as directed and that, in the event such letter or notice is
disregarded for a period of ten (10) days, a complaint will be filed and
warrant of arrest issued; provided, that nothing in this section shall abridge
the power to file a complaint against him prior to the expiration of such time.
      3.   Eluding Peace Officer: Any operator of a motor vehicle who has
received a visual or audible signal, a red light and a siren, from a police
officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to be an
official police, sheriff or highway patrol car, directing the operator to bring
his vehicle to a stop and who wilfully increases his speed or extinguishes his
lights in an attempt to elude such officer, or who does elude such police
officer, or wilfully attempts in any other manner to elude the police officer,
or who does elude such police officer within the city, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 7-1)
   B.   Procedure For Citing Vehicles:
      1.   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or
stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this title, the
officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration number and may take
any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user, and
shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a notice in writing, by authorized
citation, for the driver to answer to the charge against him within three (3)
days and at the time and place specified in the notice. The officer shall
deliver copies of such notice to the city desk sergeant.
      2.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of such parking, the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
      3.   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure
of giving a citation has been followed.
      4.   In the event any person fails to comply with a citation given to
such person or attached to a vehicle, the chief of police shall have a
complaint entered against such person before the municipal judge; and the
municipal judge shall issue a warrant for his arrest. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 7-2)
   C.   Desk Sergeant:
      1.   The appointed court clerk shall act as desk sergeant during the
daytime when the municipal judge shall not be available and as an auxiliary to
the municipal court. Any person receiving a summons to appear in municipal
court and who desires to pay a minimum fine upon a plea of guilty may enter
such plea before the desk sergeant and pay such fine and take a receipt
therefor. The said court clerk, when desk sergeant, shall not have the
authority to hold court or preside over trial, but may take bond and order
appearance before the municipal court on pleas of not guilty. If no formal
complaint has been filed, the court clerk, as desk sergeant, may, upon payment
of such fine as imposed under provisions of subsection C2 of this section,
release the person receiving a summons from further appearance. If one
receiving a summons enters a plea of not guilty and is not released by the
court clerk, the court clerk shall notify the municipal judge who shall set the
case for trial.
      2.   The city council, by resolution, shall establish minimum fines to be
levied, without discretionary authority of the desk sergeant, for violations of
this title. Such resolution shall be in full force and effect at all times of
legal effectiveness of this code.
      3.   For arraignment, see the procedure established by section
1-11-16 of this code. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 7-3)
   D.   Impounding Of Vehicles: Any police officer may impound any motor
vehicle parked at a place where parking is prohibited by this title, or which
has been parked in excess of the time allowed for parking in any place, or
which has been involved in two (2) or more violations of this title, for which
citations have been issued and not presented as required herein. Any person
desiring to redeem such impounded vehicle shall first pay such fine or fines as
may be assessed by the municipal judge for the violation or violations for
which such motor vehicle was impounded; provided, that such fine or fines and
costs shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such offense.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 7-4; amd. 2016 Code)
6-1-16: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES; COURT RECORDS:
   A.   Violations:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any act
forbidden, or to fail to perform any act required, in this title.
      2.   It is unlawful for a parent of a child or the guardian of a ward to
authorize or knowingly to permit any such child or ward to violate any
provision of this title.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to authorize or
knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his or its name to be driven or
to stand or to be parked in violation of any provision of this title. (1985
Code ch. 20 § 20-1)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any
provision of this title, or performs any unlawful act as defined in this title,
or fails to perform any act required in this title, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 248, 11-4-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Court Records; State Notification:
      1.   The municipal court clerk shall keep a record of every traffic
citation deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of
every official action by the court or its traffic violations bureau in
reference thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
      2.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this title or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the municipal judge or clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state department of public safety a
certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
      3.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state
department of public safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his operator's or chauffeur's license, the registration
number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing,
the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine
or forfeiture. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 20-3)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Method Of Parking Designated
6-2-2: Parking Prohibited In Certain Places
6-2-3: Parking On Rainbow Avenue And In Alleys
6-2-4: Parking Within Marked Spaces
6-2-5: One-Way Roadways
6-2-6: Double Parking
6-2-7: Angle And Parallel Parking
6-2-8: Protruding Into Street On Noncurbed Pavement
6-2-9: Truck Parking
6-2-10: Stopping At Intersections
6-2-11: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-2-12: Parking More Than Twenty Four Hours
6-2-13: Owner Responsibility
6-2-14: Unoccupied Vehicles, Removal
6-2-15: Loading Zones
6-2-1: METHOD OF PARKING DESIGNATED:
No vehicle shall be parked in the center of the streets except in the block on
east side of courthouse square. In any block in which a business is located,
vehicles shall be parked at an angle of approximately forty five degrees (45°)
with the curb. The front of such vehicle shall be within two feet (2') of the
curb. In all other places, vehicles shall be parked parallel to the curb and
within eighteen inches (18") thereof facing the direction of travel. (1985 Code
ch. 20 § 3-17; amd. 2016 Code)
6-2-2: PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES:
   A.   No Parking Places: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid a conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with law or ordinance or the directions of a police officer or traffic control
sign, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      3.   Within an intersection.
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking
space officially marked.
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within ten feet (10') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      7.   Within fifteen feet (15') upon the approach to any stop sign located
at the side of a roadway.
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone.
      9.   Near the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the side of a
street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within fifty feet (50') of
said entrance.
      10.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
      11.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      12.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or a
highway. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-1)
      13.   Within the following locations, except by direction of a traffic
officer or in case of an emergency: in front of a fire or ambulance station, a
theater, or the entrance to a hospital. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-4)
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   Moving Vehicle: No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his
control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is
unlawful. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-1)
   C.   Parked Vehicles; Setting Brakes: Adequate brakes shall be set on all
parked vehicles. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-1; amd. 2016 Code)
6-2-3: PARKING ON RAINBOW AVENUE AND IN ALLEYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle on Rainbow Avenue
or in any alley in the city, except for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading merchandise or other materials; provided, that
this section shall not apply to motor vehicles that are on official duty for
the city or so authorized by the mayor. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-2)
6-2-4: PARKING WITHIN MARKED SPACES:
In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space. (1985 Code ch. 20 §
3-3)
6-2-5: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS:
In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic
is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs or
marks are placed to permit such standing or parking. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-15)
6-2-6: DOUBLE PARKING:
   A.   Double Parking Restricted: No vehicle shall be permitted to double park
under conditions hereinafter set out:
      1.   At any time on U.S. Highway 59 in such manner as to impede the
orderly flow of traffic.
      2.   Within fifty feet (50') of an intersection, except alley
intersection, or within ten feet (10') of an alley intersection.
      3.   Opposite a double parked vehicle across the street.
      4.   When such double parking would or does block or interfere materially
with the normal movement of traffic.
      5.   In any position other than parallel to the curb and within two feet
(2') of the adjacent vehicle parked next to the curb.
      6.   When directed by a police officer to move on.
   B.   Double Parking Allowed:
      1.   Vehicles not used ordinarily for the transportation of merchandise
may double park for the purpose of, but only while actually engaged in, the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, subject, however, to all the
general conditions hereinabove set out.
      2.   Vehicles used ordinarily for the transportation of merchandise may
double park for the purpose of, but only while actually engaged in, the
expeditious loading or unloading of merchandise, subject, however, to all the
general conditions hereinabove set out; provided, that no such vehicles shall
be double parked longer than ten (10) minutes; and provided, further that no
such vehicle shall be double parked at any time on that part of any highway
running through the city, unless the driver of such vehicle be immediately
available for the purpose of moving said vehicle.
   C.   Prohibition: No vehicle shall be double parked when parking space
adjacent to the curb is available. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-5)
6-2-7: ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING:
   A.   Angle: All vehicles shall, on both sides of the streets constituting
the business section or portion of the city, park at an angle of forty five
degrees (45°) with the curb. Vehicles shall be parked with the front of vehicle
facing the curb, except when an emergency would dictate otherwise. (1985 Code
ch. 20 § 3-6; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Parallel: All vehicles shall be parked parallel to the curb, where
parallel parking is authorized, on the right side of the street in the
direction of travel with the right front and rear wheels not more than eighteen
inches (18") from the curb. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-7)
6-2-8: PROTRUDING INTO STREET ON NONCURBED PAVEMENT:
No vehicles shall be parked on any street in such a manner that any part of the
vehicle or load protrudes into the roadway more than eighteen inches (18") from
the curb line of said street; provided, that this provision shall not be
construed as applying to double parked vehicles parked as authorized herein.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-8)
6-2-9: TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   One Ton Capacity: All trucks in excess of one ton capacity are
prohibited from parking on residential area streets and rights of way within
the city. This also applies to semitrailers left parked on dollies and/or any
trailer longer than twelve feet (12'). (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-16)
   B.   One And One-Half Ton Capacity: Trucks exceeding one and one-half (11/2)
ton capacity, truck trailers, semitrailers and pole trailers shall not be
permitted to park on the streets for a period of time in excess of two (2)
hours at any one time. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-9)
6-2-10: STOPPING AT INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Stops, Where Required: Vehicles approaching any intersection or place
where a stop is required by this title, and official signs or markings so
indicate, shall be brought to a stop at the right side of the near side of the
crosswalk, unless a limit line designates a different place, before proceeding
through or farther into such intersection or place. A vehicle shall not be
stopped while proceeding through the intersection except in the case of an
emergency. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-11)
   B.   Specific Stop Locations: All intersections entering or leading into
designated through streets shall be specific stop locations at which the driver
of a vehicle shall be required to come to a full stop before entering the
intersections. All vehicles shall come to a complete and full stop before
entering any federal or state highway within the corporate limits of the city.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-12)
6-2-11: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
   A.   Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   B.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except when repairs are
necessitated by an emergency. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-13)
6-2-12: PARKING MORE THAN TWENTY FOUR HOURS:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer than
twenty four (24) hours. This section shall not affect parking limits
established for shorter periods. All vehicles left on streets over twenty four
(24) hours will be ticketed and towed away. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-14; amd. 2016
Code)
6-2-13: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to
knowingly allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in his name or its
name to stand or park in any street, highway or parkway under the control of
the city, unattended for a longer continuous period of time than twenty four
(24) hours. A vehicle parked in excess of twenty four (24) hours is declared a
nuisance endangering public safety and may be impounded by the police
department. Any vehicle left standing may be removed by the police department.
The removal and storage fee must be paid by the owner of the vehicle in
violation of this section before redemption. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-10)
6-2-14: UNOCCUPIED VEHICLES, REMOVAL:
Any unoccupied vehicle found to be in violation of the traffic ordinances of
the city or interfering with the movement of traffic is hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and such vehicle may be taken in charge by any police officer of the
city, removed from the street and impounded until the rightful owner of the
said vehicle shows proof of ownership of the vehicle and pays all removal,
storage and redemption fees thereon. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-18)
6-2-15: LOADING ZONES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   In the business area, loading zones shall be designated only where
double parking or double stopping of commercial vehicles is prohibited by
ordinance and adequate alley loading facilities are not available or where the
roadway is so narrow or traffic so congested that such zones are warranted for
the safety and convenience of the general public.
      2.   The average length of all loading zones shall not exceed thirty feet
(30') and no one block or curb shall have more than two (2) such zones.
      3.   When practical, said zones shall be located in the central part of
the block and adjacent to the termination of any alley which may be in the
block, or shall be located at the ends of a block depending on the proximity of
business establishments needing said zones.
      4.   No parking shall be permitted in any loading zone during the hours
during which said zones are needed for loading and unloading purposes.
      5.   Commercial vehicles shall occupy a loading zone only for the purpose
of and while actually engaged in the expeditious loading or unloading of
merchandise and in no event for a period longer than thirty (30) minutes. Other
vehicles shall occupy a loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers. (1985 Code ch.
20 § 11-1)
   B.   Alleys: Any vehicle entitled to park in an alley, as provided herein,
shall only be permitted to load or unload on the side of the alley designated.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 11-2)
   C.   Hours For Loading And Unloading: No driver of any vehicle used for the
purpose of transporting household goods, office furniture or merchandise in
bulk shall load or unload the same on any street within the business area
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
except in such cases where only a front entrance is provided and the event of
an emergency and from securing the approval of the chief of police. (1985 Code
ch. 20 § 11-3)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Overtaking, Meeting, Keeping Right
6-3-2: Speed Limits
6-3-3: Reckless Or Careless Driving; Driving While Intoxicated
6-3-1: OVERTAKING, MEETING, KEEPING RIGHT:
   A.   Overtaking Vehicle: The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe
distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the street or roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 18-1)
   B.   Limitations On Overtaking On The Left:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
street or roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction of any vehicle overtaken.
      2.   No vehicle shall in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at any
other time be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
         a.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
street or highway where the driver's view along the street or highway is
obstructed.
         b.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any bridge, or
when approaching within fifty feet (50') of or traversing any intersection.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 18-2)
6-3-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Basic Rule: No person shall drive a vehicle on any highway or street,
or operate a bus or other means of transportation at a speed greater than is
reasonable or prudent under the conditions then existing, taking into
consideration, among other things, the conditions of the vehicle, roadway and
weather, the amount of light or darkness, the amount of traffic, presence of
pedestrians in or near the roadway, and the obstruction of view.
   B.   Maximum Speed When No Special Hazards Exist: When no special hazards
exist, the following maximum speeds shall be lawful, except as otherwise
posted. Any speed in excess of said limit shall be unlawful. (1985 Code ch. 20
§ 5-1)
      1.   No more than thirty five (35) miles per hour in any school zone,
between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on all school
days. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 5-1; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour in any church zone on Sundays.
      3.   Twenty (20) miles per hour in the business area.
      4.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on all other streets. (1985 Code ch.
20 § 5-1)
   C.   Speeds On Certain Highways And Streets:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on
and along U.S. Highway 59, State Highway 10 and State Highway 20 within the
city limits at a speed greater than what is posted.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on
and along State Highway 127 within the city limits at a speed greater than the
following:
         a.   Thirty five (35) miles per hour from Washbourne Street to
Cherokee Avenue.
         b.   Thirty five (35) miles per hour from Whitehead Street to the
intersection with County Road at which point Highway 127 turns north. (1985
Code ch. 20 § 5-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Trucks And Commercial Vehicles: Trucks and other commercial vehicles of
from one to one and one-half (11/2) ton capacity, buses and other
transportation vehicles shall be subject to all of the above requirements.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 5-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Minimum Speed Limit: No vehicle shall be driven at such an unreasonably
slow speed as to constitute a hazard or to interfere with the normal movement
of other traffic, except when such speed is unavoidable. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 5-
4)
6-3-3: RECKLESS OR CARELESS DRIVING; DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED:
   A.   Careless Driving And Inattention: Any person, firm or corporation who
violates any of the following provisions of this section or performs any
unlawful act as hereinafter defined is guilty of careless driving:
      1.   Every driver of a vehicle shall operate the same at a speed
reasonable and proper for existing conditions, and in no event in excess of the
posted speed limit.
      2.   Every driver shall remain alert and give full attention to the safe
operation of his vehicle while it is in motion.
      3.   No driver shall engage in any activity while driving that interferes
with the safe control of his vehicle.
      4.   No person shall engage in any activity or do any act which
interferes with a driver's safe operation of his vehicle. (1985 Code ch. 20 §
6-1)
   B.   Reckless Driving:
      1.   Any person who drives any vehicle or animal in a manner which would
be reasonably calculated to endanger the rights, lives, or property of others,
or which is without due caution and circumspection, or which is at a careless,
heedless or dangerous rate of speed is guilty of reckless driving. (1985 Code
ch. 20 §§ 6-2, 19-1)
      2.   Every driver shall remain alert and give full attention to the safe
operation of his vehicle while it is in motion. No driver shall engage in any
activity while driving that interferes with the safe control of his vehicle. No
person shall engage in any activity or do any act which interferes with a
driver's safe operation of a vehicle. A violation of the provisions hereof is
careless driving and an offense. Any act, action or inaction which evidences a
lack of care while driving may be careless driving. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 19-1)
   C.   Excessive Acceleration: It is unlawful to excessively accelerate or
turn a vehicle so rapidly as to spin the wheels, and every person so doing is
guilty of excessive acceleration. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 6-3)
   D.   Driving Under The Influence Of Liquor Or Drugs:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to drive, operate or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle within the city.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or under the
influence of any narcotic drug, barbiturate, amphetamine, marijuana, or who is
under the influence of any drug to a degree which renders him incapable of
safely driving a motor vehicle to operate a motor vehicle within the city. The
fact that any person charged with a violation of this subsection is or has been
lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug, barbiturate, amphetamine,
marijuana, or other drug shall not constitute a defense against any charge of
violating this subsection. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 6-4)
      3.   No person under the influence of intoxicating liquor or who is a
habitual user of narcotic drugs shall drive any vehicle or animal upon the
streets or roadways of the city. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 19-3)
   E.   Following Too Closely: The driver of any vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
for the speed of such vehicle, the traffic and condition of the street. (1985
Code ch. 20 § 19-2)
ARTICLE A. TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION:
6-3A-1: Position And Method Of Turning At Intersection
6-3A-2: Obedience To Markers And Signs
6-3A-3: Limitations On Turning Around
6-3A-4: Turning Movements And Required Signals
6-3A-5: Signals By Hand And Arm Or Signal Lights
6-3A-6: Specific Right Turns Prohibited
6-3A-1: POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   A.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and right turn shall be
made as closely as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   B.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing.
   C.   Left Turns On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, with the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection, after
entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered. (1985 Code ch.
20 § 8-1)
6-3A-2: OBEDIENCE TO MARKERS AND SIGNS:
   A.   Turning Markers: When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications
are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions
of such indications. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 8-2)
   B.   No Turn Signs: Whenever signs are erected indicating that no right or
left or U-turns is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 8-3)
6-3A-3: LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND:
   A.   U-Turns: The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in the city. It is unlawful
for the driver of a vehicle to make such a U-turn. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 8-4)
   B.   Crossing Traffic Lane To Park On Opposite Side Of Street: It shall be
unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle within the corporate limits
of the city to park said vehicle by making a left hand turn, thereby crossing
over into the lane of oncoming traffic and parking said vehicle on the opposite
side of any street or road upon which said vehicle was traveling. (Ord. 183,
11-4-1985)
6-3A-4: TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS:
   A.   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the roadway as required by ordinance, or turn a vehicle
to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct
course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such movement can
be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn any vehicle without
giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided in the event
any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   C.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 8-5)
6-3A-5: SIGNALS BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL LIGHTS:
   A.   Manner Of Giving Signals: Any stop or turn signal when required herein
shall be given either by means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps. (1985
Code ch. 20 § 8-6)
   B.   Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals: All signals herein required, if
given by hand and arm, shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the
following manner, and such signals shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1985 Code
ch. 20 § 8-7)
6-3A-6: SPECIFIC RIGHT TURNS PROHIBITED:
The police department or any regular officer of the police department is
authorized to prohibit right turns during emergencies or when congestion of
traffic requires that right turns be prohibited. Right turns may be prohibited
when a marker indicating such prohibition is installed by resolution of the
city council. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 8-8)
ARTICLE B. RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
6-3B-1: Right Of Way For Vehicles
6-3B-2: Right Of Way For Pedestrians
6-3B-3: Entering Stop Intersection
6-3B-4: Entering Yield Intersection
6-3B-5: Two Or More Vehicles Facing Traffic Signs
6-3B-6: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
6-3B-7: Obstructing Traffic
6-3B-8: School Buses, Meeting Or Overtaking
6-3B-1: RIGHT OF WAY FOR VEHICLES:
Vehicles approaching or entering intersections having no traffic control
signals and no official stop, slow or warning signs shall be governed by the
following rules:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle on a city street approaching an intersection
with a state or federal highway shall stop and yield the right of way to a
vehicle which has entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   B.   When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
streets at approximately the same time, except in subsection A of this section,
the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way to a vehicle
which has entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   C.   The right of way rules declared in subsections A and B of this section
are modified at through streets and otherwise as hereinafter stated in this
article.
   D.   Vehicles approaching or entering an intersection where an official
stop, slow or warning sign or flashing stop or caution signal is erected on one
or two (2) or more intersecting cross streets shall, after stopping, slowing or
taking caution as the case may be in obedience to such sign or signal, yield
the right of way to a vehicle on a different street, on which traffic is not
limited in any of such ways, which has already entered the intersection, or
which is approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said
driver, having so yielded, may proceed and the drivers of other vehicles
approaching said different street shall yield the right of way to the vehicle
so proceeding through the intersection.
   E.   Where two (2) or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution
signs or signals on two (2) or more intersecting cross streets, and are
approaching so as to enter the intersection at the same time, where each
vehicle is required to stop, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the
right of way. Where each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle
coming from the right shall have the right of way. Where one vehicle is
required to stop and the other to slow or take caution, the one slowing or
taking caution shall have the right of way. Where one vehicle is required to
slow and the other to take caution, the one required to take caution shall have
the right of way. In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the
intersection shall have the right of way over the one which has not so entered
the intersection.
   F.   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the
left shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which has already entered the intersection or which is approaching so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so
yielded and having given a proper signal when and as required by this article,
may make such left turn and the driver of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection from the opposite direction shall yield the right of way on the
vehicle making the left turn.
   G.   In all cases, fire apparatus, police cars and ambulances and other
emergency vehicles as defined by this article, and when plainly designated as
such, shall have the right of way on the streets of Jay.
   H.   Upon the approach of fire apparatus, police cars, ambulances and other
emergency vehicles, giving signal by bell or siren, and plainly designated as
emergency vehicles, all other vehicles shall be driven parallel with and as
near as possible to the curb of the street and clear of street intersections,
and come to a full stop and remain in such position until the emergency vehicle
shall have passed.
   I.   Any vehicle parked parallel with the curb when ready to move shall
yield the right of way to oncoming traffic in the street approaching from the
rear and shall proceed into the line of traffic only after the driver has
indicated his intention of driving from the curb and into the line of traffic
by giving the signal for a left turn, and in no event shall enter the line of
traffic until the driver has ascertained that no special hazard exists.
   J.   Any vehicle parked at an angle with the curb before backing out and
into the line of traffic shall not have the right of way until such vehicle
shall have been backed away from the curb at least ten feet (10'), and
thereafter shall have the right of way over traffic from the rear until such
vehicle moves out and along with traffic in the regular direction.
   K.   Any vehicle attempting to park by backing into a parking space shall
have right of way to such parking space over any other vehicle heading into
such space.
   L.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 10-1)
6-3B-2: RIGHT OF WAY FOR PEDESTRIANS:
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping,
if need be to so yield, to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway within
any marked crosswalk or unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
   A.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked or unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection where pedestrians are crossing the street, the driver of any other
vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped
vehicle.
   B.   Every pedestrian crossing a street or roadway at any point other than
within a marked or unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the right
of way to all vehicles upon the street or roadway.
   C.   Pedestrians shall cross streets or roadways within the business area at
sidewalks extended only.
   D.   At street or roadway intersections where traffic is controlled by an
officer on duty, pedestrians shall travel in the same direction with traffic on
the street or roadway and within the sidewalk extended. Drivers of vehicles
along the street or roadway making right turns shall yield the right of way to
pedestrians traveling along the sidewalk extended, and shall make all turns
with proper care and due regard for the safety of pedestrians. When turning to
the right at street or roadway intersections, drivers of vehicles shall give
the signal for a right turn and a clear warning signal to pedestrians.
   E.   Nothing within this section shall be construed to relieve every driver
of any vehicle of the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian upon any street or roadway, not to give warning by sounding the horn
when necessary, and to exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or
any confused or incapacitated person upon the street or roadway. (1985 Code ch.
20 § 10-2)
6-3B-3: ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION:
   A.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer, every driver of a
vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection; or, in the
event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but, if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   B.   Such driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right of way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on said highway as to constitute an immediate hazard;
but said driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the right of way to the
vehicle so proceeding. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 10-3)
6-3B-4: ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in obedience to
such sign slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or shall
stop if necessary, and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which he is driving, and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. Said driver having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding; provided, however, that, if such driver is involved in a collision
with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection after driving
past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his failure to yield the right of way.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 10-4)
6-3B-5: TWO OR MORE VEHICLES FACING TRAFFIC SIGNS:
Where two (2) or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs on two
(2) or more intersecting cross streets, and are approaching so as to enter the
intersection at the same time, where each vehicle is required to stop, the
vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of way. Where each vehicle
is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of
way. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 10-5)
6-3B-6: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk
area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right of
way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and, upon
entering the roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching
on said roadway. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 10-6)
6-3B-7: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 10-7)
6-3B-8: SCHOOL BUSES, MEETING OR OVERTAKING:
The driver of a vehicle upon a city street, upon meeting or overtaking from
either direction, any school bus which has stopped on or adjacent to any city
street for the purpose of receiving or discharging any schoolchildren and other
occupants, shall stop the vehicle immediately before passing the school bus,
but then may proceed to pass such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and
prudent, not exceeding ten (10) miles per hour, with due caution for the safety
of such schoolchildren and other occupants, and this section shall be
applicable only in the event the school bus shall bear upon the front and rear
thereon, a plainly visible sign containing the words "School Bus" in letters
not less than eight inches (8") in height. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 10-8)
CHAPTER 4
STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Through Streets
6-4-2: One-Way Streets And Alleys
6-4-1: THROUGH STREETS:
The city council shall, by resolution, establish through streets as the need
for such thoroughfares arises. Any resolution so passed under the authority of
this chapter, and upon the erection of the necessary traffic control device or
official sign or marking, shall serve as a supplement to this title and having
the same force of law. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 4-1)
6-4-2: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts of alleys
so designated as one-way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only
in the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of the traffic
are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite
direction is prohibited. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 9-1)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Tampering With Motor Vehicles
6-5-2: Following Fire Apparatus; Crossing Fire Hose
6-5-3: Funeral Processions
6-5-4: Parades And Processions, Permit
6-5-5: Driving On Sidewalk
6-5-6: Starting Parked Vehicle
6-5-7: Limitation On Backing
6-5-8: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
6-5-9: Obstructing Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
6-5-10: Clinging To Vehicles
6-5-11: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
6-5-12: Unlawful Riding
6-5-13: Placing Dangerous Objects In Streets
6-5-14: Playing Sports In Streets
6-5-1: TAMPERING WITH MOTOR VEHICLES:
No person, without the consent of the owner or the person in charge of a motor
vehicle, shall change the position of the levers, switches or other parts of
said motor vehicle, or in any way use, occupy, injure, deface, scratch, cut,
tamper with or molest any motor vehicle. This section shall not apply when
police or peace officers, for lawful purposes, in case of emergency, must move
a vehicle, or when it is necessary for anyone to move a motor vehicle
temporarily, without starting the motor thereof, for the purpose of extracting
another vehicle from a congested position. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 12-3)
6-5-2: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
   A.   Following Fire Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling to a fire alarm
closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within
the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (1985
Code ch. 20 § 12-4)
   B.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of the fire department when laid down on any street or private driveway to
be used at any fire or alarm office, without the consent of the fire department
official in command. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 12-5)
6-5-3: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Processions: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in
this title. This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers. (1985 Code ch. 20 §
12-6)
   B.   Drivers In Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and safe. (1985 Code
ch. 20 § 12-7)
   C.   Funeral Processions Identified: A funeral composed of a procession of
vehicles shall be identified by headlights turned on or by the display upon the
outside of each vehicle of an identifying insignia or by such other method as
may be determined and designated by the police department. (1985 Code ch. 20 §
12-8; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5-4: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS, PERMIT:
No funeral, procession or parade containing two hundred (200) or more persons
or fifty (50) or more vehicles, except the military forces of the United States
and the military forces of this state, shall occupy, march or proceed along any
street except in accordance with a permit issued by the chief of police and
such other regulations as are set forth herein which may apply. (1985 Code ch.
20 § 12-9)
6-5-5: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or within any sidewalk
area except at a permanent or temporary driveway. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 12-10)
6-5-6: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 12-
11)
6-5-7: LIMITATION ON BACKING:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 12-12)
   B.   No person shall back a vehicle into an intersection or over a
crosswalk; and while backing at any place, shall yield the right of way to all
other vehicles and pedestrians. All drivers backing a vehicle shall do so at a
reduced careful speed and shall only back while vision is not obstructed and
not more than two (2) car lengths unless ordered to do so by a police officer.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 3-19)
6-5-8: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 12-13)
6-5-9: OBSTRUCTING DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat a number of persons exceeding three (3), as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with
the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 12-15)
6-5-10: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway. (1985 Code ch.
20 § 12-16)
6-5-11: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 12-17)
6-5-12: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No operator of a motor vehicle shall allow a passenger to ride outside the
passenger compartment of the vehicle on the streets of the city; provided, that
this section shall not apply to persons so riding on private property or for
parades or special events. (2016 Code)
6-5-13: PLACING DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed, or let fall and
remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass, stick or
other thing which is likely to injure persons or damage property, or to render
a street unsafe for traffic. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 12-19)
6-5-14: PLAYING SPORTS IN STREETS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball, or to throw or catch
for sport, practice or pastime any ball upon any street or alley within the
City, in such a manner so as to impede the flow of traffic.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain in the public
right-of-way a sporting accessory in such a manner that the sporting accessory
is impeding the flow of traffic or that persons using the sporting accessory
are impeding the flow of traffic.
   C.   It shall also be unlawful for persons utilizing or participating in an
activity involving a sporting accessory to impede the flow of traffic.
   D.   Definition. For purposes of this section, SPORTING ACCESSORY shall be
defined as portable basketball pole, backboard or hoop, portable hockey net or
other portable sporting equipment which when placed in the street would impede
the flow of traffic.
   E.   Penalty. Violation of this subsection (c) shall result in a penalty. A
person shall be fined $25.00 for the first offense and shall be fined double
the amount for each subsequent offense.
   F.   Community and charitable organizations may seek a waiver of enforcement
for certain events. This waiver may be received from the City Clerk. (Ord. 347,
4-6-2020)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE CONDITION AND EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
6-6-1: Required Equipment; Use
6-6-2: Use Of Jake Brakes Prohibited
6-6-3: Bells And Sirens
6-6-4: Display License Plates
6-6-1: REQUIRED EQUIPMENT; USE:
   A.   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped
as required by 47 Oklahoma Statutes. No person shall operate a vehicle upon a
street of the city which is not equipped as required by state law.
   B.   No person shall fail to use such equipment in the manner required by
state law, or use it in a manner prohibited by state law. (2016 Code)
6-6-2: USE OF JAKE BRAKES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and an offense within the city limits for any person, firm
or corporation to use vehicle or trailer brakes which create an excessive or
unusual noise such as is created by the use of engine or "jake" brakes. (Ord.
264, 1-5-2009, eff. 1-5-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
6-6-3: BELLS AND SIRENS:
No vehicle shall be equipped with bells except fire apparatus, police cars and
emergency cars; and no vehicle shall be equipped with any siren except fire
apparatus, police cars or emergency cars belonging to the city or enforcement
officers of the state of Oklahoma or military vehicles or any vehicle that may
be designated for civil defense. No vehicle belonging to the city will be
equipped with sirens except upon written order of the mayor. (1985 Code ch. 20
§ 16-6)
6-6-4: DISPLAY LICENSE PLATES:
Each motor vehicle within the city is required to display the current year's
license plate issued by the state of Oklahoma or any other state in the United
States or the United States government. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 16-8)
CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Pedestrians Subject To Traffic Control Signs
6-7-2: Right Of Way In Crosswalks
6-7-3: Crossing At Right Angles
6-7-4: Yield By Pedestrians
6-7-5: Prohibited Crossings
6-7-6: Walking Along Roadways
6-7-7: Soliciting Rides Or Business
6-7-8: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
6-7-1: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signs as heretofore declared in
this title, but at all other places, pedestrians shall be granted those rights
and be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 20 §
13-1)
6-7-2: RIGHT OF WAY IN CROSSWALKS:
   A.   When traffic control signs are not in place, the driver of a vehicle
shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   B.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield.
   C.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at any intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 13-2)
6-7-3: CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES:
No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at right
angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except in a
crosswalk. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 13-4)
6-7-4: YIELD BY PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated in section
6-7-5 of this chapter when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain
designated places. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 13-5)
6-7-5: PROHIBITED CROSSINGS:
Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 13-6)
6-7-6: WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction, and
shall yield to approaching vehicles. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 13-7)
6-7-7: SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS:
No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride,
donation, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle. (1985 Code
ch. 20 § 13-8)
6-7-8: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 13-9)
CHAPTER 8
BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Effect Of Regulations
6-8-2: Traffic Laws Apply To Persons Riding Bicycles
6-8-3: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
6-8-4: Bicycle Operation Requirements And Restrictions
6-8-5: Lamps On Bicycles
6-8-6: Carrying Another Person
6-8-7: Driving Motorcycles Or Motor Scooters
6-8-8: Penalties
6-8-1: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
   B.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle
is operated upon any street or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-1)
6-8-2: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the traffic ordinances of the city applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those
provisions of the laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-2)
6-8-3: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   When authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or
U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction
of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make
any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-3)
6-8-4: BICYCLE OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Riding On Seat: A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   Carrying Persons: No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one
time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. (1985 Code ch. 20 §
14-4)
   C.   Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths: Every person operating a bicycle
upon a roadway shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as
practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one
proceeding in the same direction. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-5)
   D.   Speed: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing. (1985 Code ch. 20 §
14-6)
   E.   Emerging From Alley Or Driveway: The operator of a bicycle emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to all
pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering
the roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on said
roadway. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-7)
   F.   Carrying Articles: No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-8)
   G.   Parking: No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon
the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the
bicycle or against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford the
least obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-9)
   H.   Riding On Sidewalks: Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (1985 Code
ch. 20 § 14-10)
6-8-5: LAMPS ON BICYCLES:
Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the front
which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least one thousand
feet (1,000') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from six hundred feet (600') to the rear when directly in
front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a
red light visible from a distance of one thousand feet (1,000') to the rear may
be used in addition to the red reflector. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-11; amd. 2016
Code)
6-8-6: CARRYING ANOTHER PERSON:
No driver of a two (2) or three (3) wheel motor vehicle or bicycle shall carry
any other person on, upon or within such vehicle on any street or highway in
the city except as hereinafter provided; provided, however, that if any two (2)
or three (3) wheel motor vehicle with a wheel diameter of twelve inches (12")
or greater, or any bicycle shall have either a double seating device with
double footrests or a sidecar attachment providing a separate seat space within
such sidecar attachment for each person riding therein so that such person
shall be seated entirely within the body of said sidecar, then it shall be
permissible for an operator who has attained the age of sixteen (16) years or
older to carry a passenger. A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his
employee is excepted from provisions hereof. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-12)
6-8-7: DRIVING MOTORCYCLES OR MOTOR SCOOTERS:
   A.   Speed: No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a
greater speed than the speed limit legally posted; provided, however, in no
event nor at any time, may an operator under the age of sixteen (16) years
operate a motorcycle or motor scooter at a speed greater than thirty five (35)
miles per hour. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-13)
   B.   Equipment: The following equipment shall be required on all motorcycles
and all motor scooters except on actual trail rides conducted outside of public
streets and highways:
      1.   Rearview Mirrors: All vehicles covered under this subsection B shall
be equipped with two (2) mirrors containing a reflection surface of not less
than three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway to the rear
of his vehicle.
      2.   Windshield: All vehicles covered under this subsection B shall be
quipped with a windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects, except that in lieu of such windshield, the
operator shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect
him from foreign objects.
      3.   Brakes: All vehicles covered under this subsection B shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of same, to stop and hold
such vehicles, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes: one
means shall be effective to apply the brakes to the front wheel and one means
shall be effective to apply the brakes to the rear wheel or wheels. All such
vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of the vehicle, which
shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color between red and
amber, visible from a distance not less than five hundred feet (500') to the
rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon application of the
brakes.
      4.   Flashing Turn Signal Lamps: Flashing turn signals shall show to the
front and rear of the motorcycle or motor scooter when in use, shall display a
white or amber light, or any shade of color between white and amber, visible
from a distance not less than five hundred feet (500') in normal daylight.
(1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-14; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Riding On Seat: A person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter or motor
bicycle shall ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto,
and such operator shall not carry any other person nor shall any other person
ride on the vehicle unless it is designed to carry more than one person, in
which event a passenger may ride only upon the permanent and regular seat if
designed for two (2) persons, or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear
or side of the operator. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 12-14)
   D.   Operating On Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
motor driven cycle, including a motor scooter or motor driven bicycle, on a
street in the city during a time when state law prohibits the operation of such
vehicle. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 12-20)
   E.   Riding On Sidewalks: No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden
upon any sidewalk of the city. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-12)
   F.   Handlebars: Handlebars on motorcycles and motor scooters shall not be
higher than eye level of the operator. (1985 Code ch. 20 § 14-12; amd. 2016
Code)
   G.   Holding Onto Another Moving Vehicle: No rider of a motorcycle or motor
scooter shall hold onto any moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
   H.   Passing Vehicles Between Lanes Of Traffic: No driver of a motorcycle,
motor scooter or bicycle shall pass other vehicles in between lanes of traffic
traveling in the same direction, authorized emergency vehicles excepted. (1985
Code ch. 20 § 14-12)
6-8-8: PENALTIES:
Every person convicted of a violation or any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code or by impounding of such person's bicycle for a period not
to exceed ten (10) days, or by a combination thereof. (Ord. 248, 11-4-2002;
amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 9
GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-9-1: Conditions Governing Operation
6-9-2: Utility Terrain Vehicles Regulated
6-9-1: CONDITIONS GOVERNING OPERATION:
The following conditions shall govern the operation of golf carts and all-
terrain vehicles upon the city streets:
   A.   The driver of said vehicle or vehicles must be employed by either the
city of Jay, the Jay utilities authority or must be a contract laborer working
for the city of Jay or the Jay utilities authority.
   B.   Drivers shall be allowed to operate a golf cart or all- terrain vehicle
upon the city streets only during daylight hours with the exception of an
emergency or sanctioned city activity such as a parade.
   C.   The driver of said vehicle shall have in his or her possession at all
times a valid driver's license.
   D.   The driver of said vehicle shall obey all state and local traffic laws
while the vehicle is in operation upon the city streets.
   E.   The driver of said vehicle shall, whenever applicable, yield the right
of way to another motor vehicle which may be encountered on the roadway such as
at stop signs. When being approached by a motor vehicle from the rear, every
effort shall be made to allow the motor vehicle to safely pass or drive around
the golf cart or all-terrain vehicle.
   F.   Each golf cart or all-terrain vehicle shall have either a warning
placard attached to the rear of the vehicle causing it to be clearly visible or
must have a warning style light on the vehicle causing the light to be visible
from the rear, and if equipped with such light, it shall be working while the
vehicle is in motion. (Ord. 276, 7-16-2011)
6-9-2: UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES REGULATED.
   A.   Definitions:
   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE (UTV): A vehicle manufactured and used exclusively
for off-highway use, traveling on four or more non-highway tires, having non-
straddle seating and which is steered by a steering wheel.
   B.   UTVs, privately or publicly owned, may be operated on the approved
streets of said city, under the following conditions:
      1.   A permit of $100 for the physical year must be purchased.
      2.   Only driven during City authorized weekends that coincide with local
festivals and events.
      3.   Operation shall be during daylight hours.
      4.   Operation on any authorized city street, alley or on any authorized
trail established by the City and designated by an official map, which map
shall be located in the Office of the City Clerk and posted at least once along
the authorized street, alley or trail (with additional city streets, alleys and
authorized trails, from time to time, added to the official map by majority
approval of any motion or resolution by the governing body).
      5.   Appropriate signage designated by the City Council and designed to
alert Utility vehicle drivers that travel is permitted, and with appropriate
signage placed on intersecting streets, to alert the traveling public of the
presence of UTVs.
      6.   Operation must not occur on any State or Federal Highway.
      7.   Operator must provide proof of insurance.
      8.   Vehicle must be inspected and approved by an authorized designee of
the Jay Police Department of the City of Jay, Oklahoma.
      9.   A permit sticker will be given and must always be displayed on the
UTV.
      10.   All state, county and local laws and regulations shall govern the
operation of UTVs within the city limits of Jay, Oklahoma.
      11.   It shall remain illegal to operate golf carts, four wheelers and
similar vehicles on the streets or alleys of Jay, Oklahoma.
      12.   Application of Traffic Laws to Utility vehicles. Every person
operating an UTV upon the authorized city streets or other authorized location
shall be granted all rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable
to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this state and the traffic provisions
of this code applicable to the driver of a vehicle.
      13.   Obedience to Traffic Control Devices. Any person operating an UTV
upon an authorized city streets or other authorized location shall obey the
instructions of official traffic control signals, signs and other control
devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
      14.   No person operating an UTV shall ride other than upon the permanent
and regular seat affixed thereto.
      15.   Every person driving an UTV upon an authorized city streets or
other authorized location shall ride only one (1) abreast.
      16.   Any person operating an UTV on an authorized city street or
authorized trail or other authorized location shall use the low gear only.
      17.   No person operating an UTV on an authorized city street or
authorized trail or other authorized location shall engage in a speed contest
or race.
      18.   No person shall operate or ride in an UTV containing a bench or
bucket seats on an authorized city street or authorized trail or other
authorized location without having properly affixed a seat belt(s) around the
driver and occupants.
      19.   Speed of the UTV. No person shall operate an UTV upon an authorized
city street or authorized trail or other authorized location at a speed greater
than 20 miles per hour.
      20.   Yielding the Right-of-Way. The operator of an UTV shall yield the
right-of-way to all pedestrians and vehicles approaching or traveling along the
authorized city street and/or authorized trail or other authorized location.
      21.   License. No person shall operate an UTV on an authorized city
street or trail or other authorized location without having in his/her
possession at all times, an unrevoked and unsuspended operator’s or chauffeur’s
license as required by the laws of the state, unless such person is
specifically exempted from such laws by any provision contained by federal or
state law or regulation.
      22.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of an UTV to carry a
passenger unless that all-terrain vehicle has been specifically designed by the
manufacturer to carry passengers in addition to the operator.
      23.   Any parent, legal guardian or person having actual responsibility
for a person under eighteen(18) years of age, or who is the owner of the UTV
operated by a person under eighteen (18) years of age, who knows, or should
have known, that the person operating the UTV is not in compliance with the
provisions of this subsection, shall be punishable according to the city and
state laws. (Ord. 342, 2-20-2020)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Trees And Shrubbery
7-1-2: Structures Obstructing Streets Or Rights Of Way
7-1-3: Business Use Of Streets
7-1-4: Obstructing Pedestrian And Vehicular Traffic
7-1-5: Depositing Trash Upon Streets Or Sidewalks
7-1-6: Playing On Sidewalks And In Streets
7-1-7: Unlawful Drainage Onto Sidewalks Or Streets
7-1-8: Obstructing Drainage From Streets And Sidewalks
7-1-9: Impeding Water Flow In Drainage Ditches
7-1-10: Congregations And Littering
7-1-11: Political Advertising
7-1-12: Signs Over Or Across Streets
7-1-13: Penalty
7-1-1: TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
   A.   Trimming Required:
      1.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of the city shall
trim all trees and shrubbery, growing in the parking, between the sidewalk and
the roadway of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any part
of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys.
      2.   When such premises are occupied by some person other than the owner,
such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the manner as hereinbefore
required of the owner.
      3.   Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest
branches or foliage shall not be lower than the ten feet (10') above the
roadway of a street or alley, nor lower than eight feet (8')above the sidewalk.
(1985 Code ch. 19 § 1-1)
   B.   Violation: Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses, or neglects to
trim trees and shrubbery as provided in subsection A of this section, after
receiving ten (10) days' notice from the mayor or street department
superintendent to do so, is guilty of an offense against the city. Every day
that the owner or occupant fails, refuses, or neglects to trim such trees or
shrubbery, after the expiration of the ten (10) days' notice, shall be a
separate offense. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Injuring Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or
shrubbery on a street or alley in the city; provided, that this shall not
prohibit the lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(1985 Code ch. 19 § 1-3)
7-1-2: STRUCTURES OBSTRUCTING STREETS OR RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
maintain or operate any building, sign, fence, post, gasoline pump, driveway
canopy, tree, shrub or other thing or structure, on any right of way of, or
upon any street in, the city; and the constructing or maintaining of any such
thing or structure on any right of way, or upon any such street, shall
constitute a public nuisance, which may be summarily abated by the city or its
officers, agents, servants, and employees in the manner provided in this
chapter. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 7-1)
   B.   Abatement By City:
      1.   If the owner or person in possession of any building, sign, fence,
post, gasoline pump, driveway canopy, tree, shrub, or other thing or structure,
on any right of way, or upon any street, fails to remove such structure or
thing for a period of ten (10) days after written demand for the removal
thereof has been made upon him by registered mail or personal service, the
city, its officers, agents, servants and employees are hereby authorized and
empowered to physically tear down and remove such thing or structure, and for
such purposes may enter upon private property to the extent necessary to
accomplish such removal.
      2.   Neither the city, nor its officers, agents, servants or employees
shall be liable for any damage caused or sustained by reason of the abatement
and removal of such nuisance. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 7-2)
7-1-3: BUSINESS USE OF STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct, erect, place,
operate, maintain, or permit to exist any icebox, ice dock, gasoline pump,
gasoline storage reservoir, tire rack, tire tools or equipment, water hose
connection, any mercantile business, or any tools, stand, equipment,
merchandise, or appurtenances thereof, aerials, poles, or wires therefor,
whether permanent or temporary, or any other obstruction, upon any part of any
street, alley, boulevard, parkway, curbing, or parking within the city. (1985
Code ch. 19 § 1-4)
7-1-4: OBSTRUCTING PEDESTRIAN AND VEHICULAR TRAFFIC:
It is unlawful for any person to use or obstruct the sidewalks of the city in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use
or obstruct the streets and alleys of the city in any manner so as to interfere
unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 1-5)
7-1-5: DEPOSITING TRASH UPON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person to deposit, throw, or sweep into or upon a
street, alley, parking, or sidewalk of the city any paper, rubbish, grass,
weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes, or other refuse of any kind.
(1985 Code ch. 19 § 1-6)
7-1-6: PLAYING ON SIDEWALKS AND IN STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to play on the sidewalks or upon the main
traveled portion of the streets and alleys of the city, except as may be
authorized by ordinance. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 1-7)
7-1-7: UNLAWFUL DRAINAGE ONTO SIDEWALKS OR STREETS:
   A.   Washing Vehicles: No automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any
place within the city where the water, dirt, mud, or other substances removed
therefrom by or during the washing thereof, will drain into or upon any street
or sidewalk of the city. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 1-8)
   B.   Water From Filling Stations, Other Businesses: It is unlawful for any
owner or operator of a filling station or other place of business, or any agent
or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease, or other fluid to flow or
drain into, upon, over, or across any sidewalk, parking, street, alley, or
other public way. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 1-9)
7-1-8: OBSTRUCTING DRAINAGE FROM STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk, or alley by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water into
the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon the
streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutters. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 1-10)
7-1-9: IMPEDING WATER FLOW IN DRAINAGE DITCHES:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Any culvert, driveway, pipe or other obstacle upon
or in the dedicated streets, alleys or ways of the city which impedes the flow
of water through drainage ditches now constructed or which might hereafter be
constructed by the city for the purpose of proper drainage of water falling
from any rainfalls, which might reasonably be anticipated, shall be and are
hereby declared to be public nuisances endangering and interfering with travel
upon and the repair and maintenance of city streets and annoying, injuring and
endangering the comfort, repose, health and safety of the citizens of the city.
(1985 Code ch. 13 § 4-1)
   B.   Notice To Remove:
      1.   Abatement By Owner Or Occupant: All public nuisances existing
contrary to the provisions of this section not abated by the owners or
occupants of adjoining premises, or their agents, within ten (10) days after
they shall be given notice as provided herein, shall be abated by the street
department superintendent or other officer or employee of the city, designated
by the mayor acting under the direction of the city council, by digging up,
breaking, if necessary or not reasonably avoidable, and removing such culvert,
driveway, pipe or other obstacle and opening up such drainage ditch, and
leaving the same open. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 4-2)
      2.   Notice In Writing; Delivery: The notice herein mentioned shall be in
writing directing the owner or occupant of premises adjoining such nuisance to
abate the same by removing such obstacle impeding drainage, and shall be given
by mailing to the owner or occupant of such adjoining premises at his or their
last known post office address, or to both, if their names and post office
addresses can be ascertained with reasonable diligence, by registered or
certified mail or by delivery of such notice to such owner or occupant
personally by any officer, employee or agent of the city or by posting such
notice at some conspicuous place upon such premises if the said name or mailing
address of the owner or occupant of said premises cannot be ascertained with
reasonable diligence. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 4-3)
7-1-10: CONGREGATIONS AND LITTERING:
   A.   Congregations Of Two Or More Persons: Any assembly or congregation of
two (2) or more persons loitering or spending their time idly after dark upon
public or private streets, alleys, driveways, parking lots or other property
within public view or hearing, where some member or members of such assembly,
congregation or group cannot be identified by the city police or who are not
promptly identified to the city police, are engaged or contemporaneously have
engaged in disturbing the peace, offending public decency, using vile or
profane language, annoying, injuring or endangering the comfort, repose, health
or safety of others or littering public or private property by throwing,
dropping, laying and leaving cans, bottles, wastepaper, trash or other refuse
upon such public or private property, is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 5-1)
   B.   Abatement By Chief Of Police:
      1.   Order To Disperse: When any such public nuisance is in existence
within the presence or personal knowledge of the chief of police or any member
of the police department of the city or upon written complaint or the existence
of such public nuisance as herein defined by any citizen of the city, such
chief of police or member of the police department of the city may abate such
nuisance by ordering all members of such assembly, congregation or group to
disperse and to cease and desist for the remainder of such night from loitering
or spending their time idly at any public place open to the public or within
public view within the limits of the city and may order minors under the age of
majority in such assembly congregation or group to go to their respective homes
or places of abode. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 5-2)
      2.   Refusal To Comply With Order: Any person who refuses to comply with
or violates any order of the chief of police or any member of the police
department of the city pursuant to this section shall be guilty of an offense
against the city unless at the time of the giving of such order by the chief of
police or any member of the police department of the city, such person shows
justifiable cause to such chief of police or member of the police department,
why he must be or remain temporarily upon the streets or other public place
within the city for some limited time to accomplish some lawful and legitimate
purpose, in which event he may be granted permission to be or remain upon such
street or other public place for the limited time necessary to accomplish such
lawful and legitimate purpose. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 5-3)
   C.   Littering: It is further declared to be unlawful for any person to
litter any public or private street, alley, driveway, parking lot, or other
property not his own, by throwing, dropping, laying, or leaving bottles, cans,
wastepaper, trash, or other refuse in or upon such public or private property.
(1985 Code ch. 13 § 5-4)
7-1-11: POLITICAL ADVERTISING:
   A.   Political Advertising Defined: An "advertising sign" is defined as any
sign, poster or placard printed, painted, made or designed for the purpose of
furthering or advertising the candidacy of any person who is or intends to
become or may be a candidate for the election to any public office, whether
such public office be in the local, state or federal government, or any
subdivision thereof; and any sign designed for the purpose of aiding directly
or indirectly in the sale of all commodities, and any sign that is designed for
the purpose of securing attendance of people in any event, open to and attended
by the public, whether a fee is charged for such attendance or not. (1985 Code
ch. 13 § 6-1)
   B.   Political Signs:
      1.   Signs Prohibited On Streets And Easements: No person, firm or
corporation shall erect or display any political advertising sign on any street
or alley right of way, or upon any public utility easement within the city.
(1985 Code ch. 13 § 6-2)
      2.   Signs Prohibited On Poles: No person, firm or corporation shall
place, tack, nail, staple or glue any political advertising sign on any
telephone, telegraph, electric or street lighting pole within the city. (1985
Code ch. 13 § 6-3)
      3.   Signs Declared Nuisance: Any political advertising sign erected,
placed or displayed in violation of the provisions hereof shall be a public
nuisance. No property right shall exist in such sign erected, placed or
displayed in violation of the provisions hereof, and such sign may be removed
and destroyed by any person. (1985 Code ch. 13 § 6-4)
7-1-12: SIGNS OVER OR ACROSS STREETS:
It shall be an offense for any person to stretch any sign or other thing on,
over or across any street or alley within the corporate limits of the city,
except as may be authorized by franchise or by temporary permission duly
granted by the mayor. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-20)
7-1-13: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's continuation of any violation shall be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord. 248, 11-4-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Ordering Construction; Compliance With Chapter
7-2-2: Construction Materials And Specifications
7-2-3: Specifications Furnished By Superintendent
7-2-4: Duty Of Property Owners
7-2-5: Council Authority To Condemn Sidewalks
7-2-6: Violation; Penalty
7-2-1: ORDERING CONSTRUCTION; COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER:
Whenever the city council shall order any sidewalk to be constructed or
repaired, the same shall be constructed or repaired in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-11)
7-2-2: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Material And Grade: All sidewalks, curbs, gutters and private crossings
shall be constructed of cement, asphalt or other substance or material that
will make and produce a hard, smooth surface, and be constructed under
supervision of the street department superintendent. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-1)
   B.   Width:
      1.   All sidewalks laid and constructed on any business street shall be
ten feet (10') wide, including curbing, and shall adjoin the abutting property
line.
      2.   Sidewalks laid and constructed on a residence street shall be four
feet (4') wide. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-2)
   C.   Mixing Of Materials: The following rules shall govern the kinds of
material to be used in sidewalks and the mixing of the same:
      1.   Cement: Any brand of portland cement fulfilling the requirements
suggested by the American Society For Testing Materials may be used.
      2.   Sand: The sand shall be clean and sharp.
      3.   Chat, Broken Stone, Gravel: The chat, broken stone or gravel shall
be clean and hard and of such dimension that it will pass through a two inch
(2") ring.
      4.   Mixing Materials: Upon the properly prepared subgrade shall be
placed a concrete base four inches (4") thick, composed of one volume of cement
and six (6) volumes of aggregate, the aggregate being composed of four (4)
volumes of chat, broken stone or gravel; the sand shall be buried so as to just
fill the voids in the rock. The cement and aggregate shall be thoroughly mixed
dry by shoveling and turning over not less than twice or more to secure a
perfect mass, or in lieu thereof, same may be turned and mixed in any concrete
mixing machine. The mass shall be deposited in well constructed forms and
thoroughly packed until the mortar flushes over all parts of the surface and
the surface is exactly one-half inch (1/2") below the finish grade of the walk.
(1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-3)
   D.   Finish: Immediately after the base has been completed, it shall be
brought to grade with a straight edge and then thoroughly compacted by
troweling it three (3) times or more. No patches shall be allowed, and in
finishing the walk, it shall be cut in five (5) or six (6) sections. The
finished walk shall be protected from the sun and wind by a moist cover for at
least twenty four (24) hours after its completion; the walk shall also be
protected from freezing in cold weather. The walk shall not be thrown open to
travel for at least three (3) days after its completion, and the contractor
shall, at his own expense, protect the walk from injury until it has been
accepted by the city. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-4)
   E.   Walks Reinforced For Driveways: Walks across driveways shall be a seven
inch (7") concrete base, prepared as heretofore specified. (1985 Code ch. 19 §
2-5)
   F.   Grade: All sidewalks, curbing and guttering shall be constructed upon
grades to be furnished by the street department superintendent. (1985 Code ch.
19 § 2-6)
   G.   Incline Sidewalks: All sidewalks constructed on the business streets
shall have an incline from the abutting property line to the outside of the
curb of two inches (2"), and all sidewalks on residence streets shall be one
inch (1") higher next to the property line. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-7)
   H.   Curbing: All curbing shall be not less in size than five inches (5") on
top and leveled one inch (1") to the foot in height, and shall not be less than
one foot (1') in ground from the bottom of the gutter, and in no case less than
one foot (1') in width, and the top of said curb shall be leveled at the outer
edge one-fourth (1/4) of an inch. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-8)
   I.   Gutters: All gutters shall be eighteen inches (18") wide, and untied to
the adjoining curbing and shall have an incline of two inches (2") from the
outside line to the curbing. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-9)
   J.   Sidewalks Continue To Curb: All sidewalks on corner lots shall continue
to the curb line. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-10)
   K.   Sidewalks Over Areas: All sidewalks built over areas or open spaces
shall be constructed with suitable supports by walls, arches or iron beams
according to specifications to be approved by the street department
superintendent. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-12)
   L.   Manholes: All manholes through sidewalks shall be manufactured ring,
flush with surface, and fitted with iron covers. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-13)
7-2-3: SPECIFICATIONS FURNISHED BY SUPERINTENDENT:
In any and all cases where this chapter fails to provide proper specifications
for a sidewalk, parking areas, curbing, and guttering, the street department
superintendent shall furnish specifications which shall be approved by the
mayor. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-15)
7-2-4: DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   Keep Sidewalks In Repair: It shall be the duty of every person, firm or
corporation owning property in the city to keep the sidewalk adjoining his lot
or lots in repair and in a safe condition for the public use and travel, and to
not permit or suffer the same to become broken, unsafe or out of repair. (1985
Code ch. 19 § 2-18)
   B.   Hazardous Conditions Prohibited: It is unlawful for the owner or
occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the
sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become a hazard to
persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-19)
7-2-5: COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO CONDEMN SIDEWALKS:
The city council may, at any time by resolution, condemn any portion of any
defective sidewalk, when in its judgment it shall be deemed necessary, and
provide for the construction of a new sidewalk in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-16)
7-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Sidewalks Laid In Violation Of Chapter: Any sidewalk which may
hereafter be constructed contrary to the provisions of this chapter may be
required by the mayor to be taken up by the street department superintendent
and a proper sidewalk constructed to conform to the requirements of this
chapter, and the cost thereof shall be taxed against the abutting lot or lots
as provided by the laws of the state. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-14)
   B.   Each Day A Separate Offense: Every day the owner, contractor or builder
shall lay or construct, or attempt to lay or construct, any sidewalk, curb or
gutter in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense, punishable under provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 2-17)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permit Required; Application; Fees
7-3-2: Bond
7-3-3: Supervision; Inspection
7-3-4: Manner Of Excavating
7-3-5: Temporary Sidewalks
7-3-6: Restoring Surface
7-3-7: Feasibility Of Boring
7-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
damage, tunnel under, or to make any excavation in any street, alley or other
public place in the city without having obtained a permit as is herein
required, or without complying with the provisions of this chapter or in
violation of or variance from the terms of any such permit. (1985 Code ch. 19 §
3-1)
   B.   Applications: Applications for such permits shall be made to the city
clerk and shall describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the
size thereof, the purpose therefor, and the person, firm or corporation doing
the actual excavating work, and the name of the person, firm or corporation for
whom or which the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the
applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be
done. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 3-2)
   C.   Fees:
      1.   The fee for such permit as provided for in subsection A of this
section shall be twenty nine dollars ($29.00) payable to the city clerk.
      2.   The fee for cutting the street when crossing it with a water, gas,
or sewer service line shall be as follows:
         a.   Concrete: Twenty nine dollars ($29.00).
         b.   Asphalt: Twenty nine dollars ($29.00). (1985 Code ch. 19 § 3-3;
amd. 2016 Code)
7-3-2: BOND:
No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
filed with the city clerk a bond in an amount to be determined by the mayor
conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss, liability or damage that may
result or accrue from or because of the making, existence, or manner of
guarding or constructing any such tunnel or excavation. Such bond shall have as
surety a corporation licensed to do business in the state as a surety company.
(1985 Code ch. 19 § 3-4)
7-3-3: SUPERVISION; INSPECTION:
The mayor shall, from time to time, inspect or cause to be inspected, all
excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley or
other public place in the city to see to the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter. Notice shall be given to him at least twenty four (24) hours
before the work of refilling any such tunnel or excavation commences. (1985
Code ch. 19 § 3-9; amd. 2016 Code)
7-3-4: MANNER OF EXCAVATING:
   A.   It is unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit thereof. Proper bracing
shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground.
   B.   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, or conduits in the making
of such excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables, or conduits or to the city department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipe,
cables, or conduits shall be disturbed.
   C.   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 3-6)
7-3-5: TEMPORARY SIDEWALKS:
If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. (1985 Code ch. 19 § 3-7)
7-3-6: RESTORING SURFACE:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley, or other public place in the city shall restore
the surface to its original condition. Refills shall be properly tamped down,
and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be left in the ground.
   B.   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant, in compliance with the
ordinances of the city and under the supervision of the street superintendent.
(1985 Code ch. 19 § 3-8)
7-3-7: FEASIBILITY OF BORING:
Boring will be required when it is feasible to tunnel underneath any portion of
any street or sidewalk in the city which is paved with concrete or asphalt
paving. The street or sidewalk paved with concrete and/or asphalt may be
excavated as otherwise provided in this chapter, if road boring is not feasible
as determined by the mayor, after taking into consideration the location,
costs, and time involved; and where a proper permit has been secured, road
bores may be driven, or drilled under any such pavement; provided, that upon
completion of the work involved, the backfill shall be compacted with sand.
(1985 Code ch. 19 § 3-10)
CHAPTER 4
STREET NUMBERING
SECTION:
7-4-1: Street Numbering Map And Plan Adopted
7-4-2: Numbering Policies Established
7-4-3: Display Of Street Numbers
7-4-1: STREET NUMBERING MAP AND PLAN ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted a street numbering map and plan, which shall be a part
of this chapter. This map shall be kept current, and the numbering thereon
extended from time to time as necessary, in accordance with the policies set
forth in this chapter. The street numbering map and plan shall be maintained in
the office of the city clerk as a public record. (Ord. 192, 5-2-1988)
7-4-2: NUMBERING POLICIES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Street Dividing Lines: For the numbering of properties, the dividing
line east and west shall be First Street, and the dividing line north and south
shall be Cherokee Street.
   B.   Streets Running North And South, East And West:
      1.   On all streets, avenues, and highways running north and south,
numbering shall commence with number 1 on the south side of Cherokee Street and
number 1 on the north side of Cherokee Street.
      2.   All streets, avenues, and highways running east and west shall
commence with the number 1 on the east side of First Street and number 1 on the
west side of First Street.
   C.   Numbering From Dividing Lines:
      1.   Numbering from such dividing lines or streets in either direction
shall be as follows: For each twenty five feet (25') of land in residential
use, one additional unit shall be added to the number, and for each twelve and
one-half feet (121/2') of land in the central commercial district, one
additional unit shall be added to the number.
      2.   Properties with separate access located upstairs or on rear portions
of lots may be given the primary property number plus one-half (1/2) (i.e., 502
and 5021/2), or request may be made through the office of the city clerk for
the assignment of alphabetical suffixes to the primary property number (i.e.,
502A, 502B, etc.).
   D.   Numbers From Block To Block: All numbers shall progress from block to
block to block, commencing at number 1 at the dividing lines or streets as
provided herein, rising to 100 at the crossing of every street in any direction
from the dividing lines or streets, except as hereinafter provided, and shall
be numbered by even numbers on the east side of all streets, odd numbers on the
west side of all streets; even numbers on the south side of all streets, and
odd numbers on the north side of all streets.
   E.   Named Streets And Numbered Streets: In any instance where "named
streets" occur between "numbered streets", the two (2) blocks shall be numbered
as one across the "named street" so as to conform to the numbered streets.
   F.   Short Blocks And Long Blocks: In any instance where there are two (2)
short blocks on one side of a street and one long block on the other side,
property numbering shall be carried across the street between the short blocks
so as to conform with the numbers in long blocks. (Ord. 192, 5-2-1988)
7-4-3: DISPLAY OF STREET NUMBERS:
   A.   Each structure to which a street number has been assigned shall have
such number displayed in a position easily observed and readable from the
public way. All numbers shall be at least three inches (3") tall and one-half
inch (1/2") wide. This will benefit Jay first responders and city officials.
(Ord. 293, 2-1-2016)
   B.   Violators of this section will receive one written notice, and must
post numbers as described in subsection A of this section within ten (10) days
of the date on the written notice. Upon failure to comply, a twenty five dollar
($25.00) fee will appear on the violator's utility bill until paid. (Ord. 293,
2-1-2016; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND RECREATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Tobacco Use Prohibited
7-5-1: TOBACCO USE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Use Prohibited: Tobacco in any form is a public nuisance and dangerous
to public health and is hereby prohibited when such usage is on the grounds of
any public park, playground or public recreation facility. (Ord. 286, 8-4-2014)
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who knowingly violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 286, 8-4-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
JAY UTILITIES AUTHORITY
SECTION:
8-1-1: Public Utilities Leased To Utilities Authority
8-1-1: PUBLIC UTILITIES LEASED TO UTILITIES AUTHORITY:
The city has leased its gas, water, sewer sanitation and garbage collection
systems to the Jay utilities authority, a public trust. The trust has power to
set gas, water, sewer sanitation and garbage collection rates and otherwise to
regulate the gas, water, sewer sanitation and garbage collection systems. The
motions and resolutions adopted by the trust replaced any ordinances which the
city had relating to these matters. For the motions and resolutions passed by
the public trust, refer to the minutes of the Jay utilities authority. A copy
of the trust indenture relating to the leasing of these systems shall be and
remain on file in the office of the city clerk. (1985 Code ch. 18; amd. 2016
Code)
CHAPTER 2
UTILITIES RATES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Utilities Rates Set By Ordinance
8-2-2: Utility Deposits
8-2-3: Bond Required For Industrial Customers
8-2-4: Garbage Defined; Container Requirements
8-2-5: Clear Access To Utility Meters; Vehicle Removal
8-2-1: UTILITIES RATES SET BY ORDINANCE:
2020
Water Effective April 1, 2020 (Phase I)
(1)   General Residential$19.40 Base Meter Charge
   (City Limits)         PLUS: $5.20 per 1,000 gallons used
(2)   General Residential$36.80 Base Meter Charge
   (Outside City Limits) PLUS: $7.20 per 1,000 gallons used
(3)   General Commercial:$19.40 Base Meter Charge
   (City Limits)         PLUS: $5.20 per 1,000 gallons used
(4)   General Commercial:$36.80 Base Meter Charge
   (Outside City Limits) PLUS: $7.20 per 1,000 gallons used
(5)   Industrial:        $78.00 Base Meter Charge
                            PLUS: $2.75 per 1,000 gallons used
(6)   Bulk:              $26.26 per 1,000 gallons used
                            With a minimum of a 1,000 gallon cost
                            $26.26 per 1,000 gallons used
(7)   Contractor Use:    With a minimum of a 1,000 gallon cost (BY PERMIT
                            ONLY)
(8)   Rural Water Distric$4.20 per 1,000 gallons used
 
 
Sewer Effective April 1, 2020 (Phase I)
Residential and Commercial Customers      
   First 2,000 gallons of water used  $23.30 Base Meter Charge
   All water utilized over 2,000 gallo$5.90 per 1,000 gallons used
Industrial Customers:                     
   First 2,000 gallons of water used  $17.00 Base Meter Charge
   All water utilized over 2,000 gallo$5.70 per 1,000 gallons used
 
 
Gas Effective April 1, 2020 (Phase I)
                             $16.25 Base Meter Charge
General Residential:         PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $4.88 per MCF used
                             $16.25 Base Meter Charge
General Commercial:          PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $4.88 per MCF used
                             $17.25 Base Meter Charge
Transmission Line Customers: PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $4.88 per MCF used
                             $11.20 Base Meter Charge
Industrial Customers:        PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $1.78 per MCF used
 
2021
Water Effective January 1, 2021 (Phase II)
(1)   General Residential$19.85 Base Meter Charge
   (City Limits)         PLUS: $5.30 per 1,000 gallons used
(2)   General Residential$37.80 Base Meter Charge
   (Outside City Limits) PLUS: $7.30 per 1,000 gallons used
(3)   General Commercial:$19.85 Base Meter Charge
   (City Limits)         PLUS: $5.30 per 1,000 gallons used
(4)   General Commercial:$37.80 Base Meter Charge
   (Outside City Limits) PLUS: $7.30 per 1,000 gallons used
(5)   Industrial:        $79.25 Base Meter Charge
                            PLUS: $2.85 per 1,000 gallons used
(6)   Bulk:              $26.87 per 1,000 gallons used
                            With a minimum of a 1,000 gallon cost
                            $26.87 per 1,000 gallons used
(7)   Contractor Use:    With a minimum of a 1,000 gallon cost
                            (BY PERMIT ONLY)
(8)   Rural Water Distric$4.95 per 1,000 gallons used
 
 
Sewer Effective January 1, 2021 (Phase II)
Residential and Commercial Customers
   First 2,000 gallons of water used  $25.50 Base Meter Charge
   All water utilized over 2,000 gallo$6.45 per 1,000 gallons used
Industrial Customers:
   First 2,000 gallons of water used  $19.00 Base Meter Charge
   All water utilized over 2,000 gallo$6.25 per 1,000 gallons used
 
Gas Effective January 1, 2021 (Phase II)
                             $17.25 Base Meter Charge
General Residential:         PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $5.18 per MCF used
                             $17.25 Base Meter Charge
General Commercial:          PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $5.18 per MCF used
                             $18.25 Base Meter Charge
Transmission Line Customers: PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $5.18 per MCF used
                             $11.70 Base Meter Charge
Industrial Customers:        PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $2.18 per MCF used
 
2022
Water Effective January 1, 2022 (Phase III)
(1)   General Residential:$20.10 Base Meter Charge
   (City Limits)          PLUS: $5.35 per 1,000 gallons used
(2)   General Residential:$38.00 Base Meter Charge
   (Outside City Limits)  PLUS: $7.35 per 1,000 gallons used
(3)   General Commercial: $20.10 Base Meter Charge
   (City Limits)          PLUS: $5.35 per 1,000 gallons used
(4)   General Commercial: $38.00 Base Meter Charge
   (Outside City Limits)  PLUS: $7.35 per 1,000 gallons used
(5)   Industrial:         $80.00 Base Meter Charge
                             PLUS: $2.90 per 1,000 gallons used
(6)   Bulk:               $27.57 per 1,000 gallons used
                             With a minimum of a 1,000 gallon cost
                             $27.57 per 1,000 gallons used
(7)   Contractor Use:     With a minimum of a 1,000 gallon cost
                             (BY PERMIT ONLY)
(8)   Rural Water District$4.95 per 1,000 gallons used
   8-2-2
 
Sewer Effective January 1, 2022 (Phase III)
Residential and Commercial Customers      
   First 2,000 gallons of water used  $26.85 Base Meter Charge
   All water utilized over 2,000 gallo$6.80 per 1,000 gallons used
Industrial Customers:                     
   First 2,000 gallons of water used  $19.00 Base Meter Charge
   All water utilized over 2,000 gallo$6.60 per 1,000 gallons used
 
 
Gas Effective January 1, 2022 (Phase III)
                             $18.00 Base Meter Charge
General Residential:         PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $5.38 per MCF used
                             $18.00 Base Meter Charge
General Commercial:          PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $5.38 per MCF used
                             $19.25 Base Meter Charge
Transmission Line Customers: PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $5.38 per MCF used
                             $12.00 Base Meter Charge
Industrial Customers:        PLUS: Cost of Gas by supplier charge per MCF
                             PLUS: $2.38 per MCF used
(2016 Code; amd. Ord. 343, 2-3-2020)
8-2-2: UTILITY DEPOSITS:
   A.   General Deposits: General deposits as required by the Jay Utilities
Authority shall be as established hereinbelow for residential and commercial
customers for the purpose of securing utility statement payments. Deposit sums
shall be refunded to the customer so entitled at such time as said customer is
no longer receiving utilities from the City, and any and all utility bills have
been paid in full. Deposit sums shall be refunded to the customer so entitled
upon application for such refund at the Jay Utilities Office.
   B.   Deposits Required, Residential And Commercial Users:
      1.   Gas: A minimum deposit of two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be
required of all new customers. However, if said customer has been a previous
customer of the Jay Utilities Authority and has a record of delinquency, then
said minimum deposit of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be required
of said customer. Repeated delinquent payment may be cause for increase of such
deposit up to a three hundred fifty dollar ($350.00) maximum deposit. (Ord.
291, 6-2015)
      2.   Water:
         a.   A minimum deposit of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be
required of all new customers. However, if said customer has been a previous
customer of the Jay Utilities Authority and had a record of delinquency, then
said minimum deposit of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be required
of said customer.
         b.   For a contractor, a minimum deposit of fifty dollars ($50.00)
shall be required. (Ord. 279, 6-3-2013)
8-2-3: BOND REQUIRED FOR INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS:
Industrial customers shall provide a surety bond, issued by a surety
corporation licensed to do business in the State of Oklahoma, in sufficient
amount to indemnify the Utilities Authority against loss due to business
failure or bankruptcy. Such bond shall be renewed annually as of May 1. Bond
amount shall be determined by industry standards as established use patterns
determined by the General Manager of the Jay Utilities Authority. The inability
to effect payment on any sixty (60) day delinquency, the occurrence of business
failure or the filing of any bankruptcy shall constitute cause to move against
such bond. (Ord. 291, 6-2015)
8-2-4: GARBAGE DEFINED; CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Definition Of Garbage: The term “garbage” shall be interpreted to mean
all regular household trash, and does not include tree limbs, household
furniture, old lumber, or other earthen, wooden, or metal materials larger and/
or heavier than regular household trash.
   B.   Approved Containers: All garbage containers shall have a capacity of
not less than twenty (20) gallons or more than sixty-five (65) gallons, which
shall be made of galvanized metal or plastic or equivalent, including plastic
bags not easily corrodible.
   C.   Placing Of Containers: Garbage bags and containers shall be placed in a
convenient location for collection at the curb or edge of the city street, no
garbage and containers shall be collected that are located on private property.
It is the resident’s responsibility to place the garbage along the street
before 6am to guarantee pickup.
   D.   Garbage Rates: The garbage rates currently charged by the City of Jay/
Jay Utilities Authority are required to be paid by any and all residents of the
City of Jay and are hereby stated as follows:
      1.   Residential Service
         a.   (3 - 30-gallon cans or 6 bags) - $12.50
         b.   (Senior Citizen - age 55 or older) - $11.00
      2.   Commercial Customers - $12.50
      3.   Commercial Dumpster Rentals
 
      1 x Week 2 x Week 3 x Week 4 x Week 5 x Week
2 yard $51.50   $95.50   $139.50  $183.50  $227.50
3 yard 63.50    107.50   151.50   195.50   239.50
4yard  84.50    161.50   238.50   315.50   392.50
6 yard 111.50   211.50   311.50   411.50   611.50
 
(Ord. 331, 4-1-2019; amd. Ord. 344, 12-20-2019)
8-2-5: CLEAR ACCESS TO UTILITY METERS; VEHICLE REMOVAL:
   A.   Any vehicle and/or property obstructing ready access to a City meter
shall be moved and/or impounded, after notice has been given, at the owner's
expense.
   B.   Notice shall be given as follows:
      1.   Notice of the offense and seven (7) days' advance notice of
impoundment, and an opportunity to move the vehicle and/or property, shall be
given to the owner or person in charge of the illegally placed property and/or
vehicle, if such is present.
      2.   If the property and/or vehicle owner or person in charge of the
property and/or vehicle is not present, notice of the offense shall be posted
on the property at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of cleanup or
impoundment. (Ord. 294, 2-1-2016)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM AND SEPTIC TANKS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Connection To Public Sewer System Or Septic Tank
8-3-3: Discharge Into Streets Or Streams Prohibited
8-3-4: Sanitary Water Closets, Privies Kept Clean
8-3-5: Disposal Of Human Excreta Of Diseased Persons
8-3-6: Liquor Establishments To Install Water Closets
8-3-7: Unauthorized Facilities Declared Public Nuisances
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
HEALTH OFFICER: The health official (or his assistant) appointed in section
1-10-4 of this code who shall have the responsibility for assuring the health
and safety of the citizenry for the city of Jay.
HUMAN EXCREMENT: The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
PLUMBING INSPECTOR: Any person authorized to make inspection of plumbing, sewer
connections, or excavations, for the purpose of laying down or maintaining
same.
SANITARY PIT PRIVY: A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as to
conform to the specifications approved by the state health department.
SANITARY WATER CLOSET: The flush type toilet which is connected with a sanitary
sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the contents at
all times.
SEPTIC TANK: One which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as to conform to the
specifications approved by the Oklahoma state health department. (1985 Code ch.
11 § 1-1)
8-3-2: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM OR SEPTIC TANK:
   A.   From and after the effective date hereof, all persons, firms or
corporations building new buildings or improvements within the city will be
required to hook on to the sewer disposal system of the city if such buildings
or improvements are within one hundred feet (100') of such sewage and disposal
system.
   B.   In the event any person, firm or corporation shall hereafter build
improvements, wherein human excreta shall be disposed of in such building or
improvements, and that such building or improvements is located farther than
one hundred feet (100') from the nearest possible connection with the sewage
and disposal system of the city, or in the event that from an engineering
standpoint such connections cannot be made with such sewage and disposal
system, then such person, firm or corporation shall be required to install a
septic tank complying with the minimum requirements of the state department of
health. Hereafter, no person, firm or corporation shall be permitted to build
privies of any kind as an accompaniment to improvements made or buildings
constructed.
   C.   Each building shall be separately and independently connected with the
main or lateral sewer pipe, except in cases where all the buildings on one lot
belong to one owner. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 1-2)
   D.   In the event future improvements place a sewer main within one hundred
feet (100') of a building, such building shall be connected to the sewer system
within ninety (90) days. The city council shall have authority to extend the
time required to connect to the system of public sewers where the public health
menace is not great; provided, that a petition to the city council requesting
the connection to be made, signed by all the surrounding owners of such
excepted lot, shall nullify the extension of time.
   E.   Sewer from alley to a point two inches (2") outside of building shall
be of cast iron or approved PVC pipe not less than four inches (4") in
diameter, straight, smooth and free from defects. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 1-2; amd.
2016 Code)
   F.   Each connection to the system of public sewers shall be accomplished by
the Jay utilities authority at a cost to the owner sufficient to cover
restoration of street surfaces.
   G.   The owner or owners of such lots shall be required to pay a hookup fee
and an amount equal to full cost of installation. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 1-2)
   H.   All trenches in public streets and alleys shall be properly protected
with substantial barricades at least three feet (3') high, and at night a red
or orange light shall be placed thereon; when the trench barricade obstruction
is ten feet (10') or more in length, red or orange lights shall be placed at
each end thereof, and the same shall be kept brightly burning from sunset to
sunrise. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
8-3-3: DISCHARGE INTO STREETS OR STREAMS PROHIBITED:
No privy, water closet, cesspool, septic tank, sink, laundry drain, or any
other drain shall open into any street, alley, ditch or stream, nor into any
drain except into the system of public sewers of the town, or into the proper
sanitary disposal system provided for that purpose. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 1-3)
8-3-4: SANITARY WATER CLOSETS, PRIVIES KEPT CLEAN:
Whenever an outside sanitary water closet or privy is maintained, said closet
or privy shall be kept clean at all times; and the covers shall be kept closed
at all times when not in use. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 1-4)
8-3-5: DISPOSAL OF HUMAN EXCRETA OF DISEASED PERSONS:
No human excreta from any person suffering with typhoid fever, dysentery or
other serious bowel disease shall be deposited in any sanitary pit privy; nor
in any sanitary water closet or septic tank until the same shall have been
disinfected as prescribed by the attending physician or the Oklahoma health
department. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 1-5)
8-3-6: LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS TO INSTALL WATER CLOSETS:
The owners of any beer parlors and taverns or other places or establishments
retailing beer or liquor to be consumed on the premises must have a "sanitary
water closet" as defined in section
8-3-1 of this chapter. Said water closet shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition for patrons' use. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 1-6)
8-3-7: UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCES:
All facilities for the disposal of human excreta in a manner different from
that required, and all privies and closets so constructed, situated or
maintained as to endanger the public health, are hereby declared to be public
nuisances, and may be dealt with and abated as such. (1985 Code ch. 11 § 1-7)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
9-1-2: Modifications Of Adopted Codes
9-1-3: Licensing Of City Construction Contractors
9-1-4: Construction Permit Fee Schedule
9-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
The following codes are hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of
prescribing regulations related thereto, one copy of each being on file in the
office of city clerk. Such codes are hereby adopted and incorporated as though
fully set out at length herein, and from the effective date, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city. (2016 Code)
   A.   The international building code of 2015, as it was approved by the
International Code Council.
   B.   The international property maintenance code of 2015, as it was approved
by the International Code Council.
   C.   The international existing building code of 2015, as it was approved by
the International Code Council.
   D.   The international fire code of 2015, as it was approved by the
International Code Council.
   E.   The international fuel gas code of 2015, as it was approved by the
International Code Council.
   F.   The international mechanical code of 2015, as it was approved by the
International Code Council.
   G.   The international plumbing code of 2015, as it was approved by the
International Code Council. (Ord. 297, 4-4-2016)
   H.   The national electrical code of 2014, as it was published by the
National Fire Protection Association. (Ord. 297, 4-4-2016; amd. 2016 Code)
9-1-2: MODIFICATIONS OF ADOPTED CODES:
   A.   Wherever the words "city", "town", or "municipality" are used in those
codes adopted in section
9-1-1 of this chapter, it shall mean the city of Jay.
   B.   Wherever the words "inspector", "building inspector", "building
official", or "code official" are used in those codes adopted, it shall mean
the city official currently assuming the duties and responsibilities of city
building inspector.
   C.   All official titles used in those codes adopted shall be interpreted as
defined in this code.
   D.   Maximum penalties for violation of provisions of those codes are
provided in section
1-4-1, "General Penalty; Imprisonment; Fines And Costs", of this code.
   E.   All limits referred to in any of those codes adopted by this chapter
are hereby established as the corporate limits of the city of Jay. (2016 Code)
9-1-3: LICENSING OF CITY CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS:
   A.   License Required: All persons, natural or corporate, engaged in any one
or more contractual activities shall have a city license to perform such
activities for each separate classification for which they are engaged to work
within the city limits. Any state license required shall be considered a
prerequisite to issuance of a city license. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 4-1)
   B.   Application For License: A license may be obtained by making
application to the office of the city clerk. Application forms are available in
the same office, and may be obtained in person or by mail.
   C.   Insurance: All applications submitted must be accompanied by proof of
public liability insurance in the minimum amount of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00), and workers' compensation insurance as required by law.
(1985 Code ch. 4 § 4-2)
   D.   Trade License Fee: A twenty five dollar ($25.00) trade license fee
shall be paid upon application by any of the following:
      1.   Electric or plumbing contractor.
      2.   Contractor (general or trades).
      3.   Journeyman.
      4.   Apprentice (registration only). (Ord. 326, 3-4-2019)
   E.   Bond Required: As a condition for licensing, the applicant for a
contractor license shall furnish and maintain current a bond in favor of the
City in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), executed through a
corporate surety authorized to do business in the State of Oklahoma and
conditioned that the applicant shall perform all his contacts for work to be
accomplished within the corporate limits of the City and that his performance
of work be in compliance with requirements outlined in this Code. Any person
aggrieved may bring an action upon such bond for recovery to the same extent
and with equal right as though such aggrieved person had been named as obligee
in said bond. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 4-2; amd. 2016 Code)
9-1-4: CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   The construction permit fee schedule shall be established as follows:
   Building permits: One hundred seventy nine dollars ($179.00) which include
the following:
      Electrical permit;
      Plumbing permit;
      HVAC permit;
      Fence permit;
      Driveway permit;
      Roofing permit;
   Or
      Electrical permits, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      Plumbing permits, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      HVAC permits, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      Remodel/add on permits, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      Certificate of occupancy, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      Residential pool, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      Fence, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      Driveway, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      Moving structure, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      Demolition, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      Roofing, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      Signs, seventy nine dollars ($79.00).
      Sewer inspection fee (install), one hundred twenty five dollars
($125.00).
      All fees include four dollars ($4.00) for the State of Oklahoma fee and
inspection.
   B.   Penalty for starting work prior to obtaining permits is triple the cost
of the required permit fee. (Ord. 327, 3-4-2019)
CHAPTER 2
HOUSING STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose And Scope
9-2-2: Application Of Provisions
9-2-3: Interpretation Of Words And Terms
9-2-4: Definitions
9-2-5: Basic Equipment And Facilities
9-2-6: Light, Ventilation And Heating
9-2-7: Safe And Sanitary Maintenance
9-2-8: Minimum Space And Location Requirements
9-2-9: Owner And Occupant Responsibilities
9-2-10: Rooming Houses
9-2-11: Mobile And Manufactured Homes
9-2-12: Mobile Home Courts
9-2-13: Enforcement; Serving Of Notices And Orders
9-2-14: Order To Vacate Premises
9-2-15: Condemnation
9-2-16: Certificate Of Occupancy Required
9-2-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city by establishing basic
and uniform standards governing the occupancy, condition and maintenance of
residential premises. These regulations are required to ensure that buildings
where people are housed shall be safe, sanitary, and of adequate size and
suitability for human habitation. The minimum standards herein set forth are
provided to arrest the spread of, and eliminate, residential blight that is
caused by dwellings which are so dilapidated, unsafe, dangerous, unhygienic or
unsanitary as to constitute a menace to public health and safety.
   B.   Scope: Administrative provisions have been established to ensure
compliance with the requirements herein set forth. These include the
authorization for the inspections of dwellings, the rehabilitation of dwellings
and the vacation and removal of dwellings which are not suitable for human
habitation. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-1)
9-2-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
No person shall occupy as owner or occupant, or permit a member of his family
to occupy, or let to another for occupancy, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with the requirement set forth in this chapter, as indicated
below:
   A.   Applicable to any newly acquired residential unit following the
effective date hereof.
   B.   Existing units as of the effective date hereof must be made to comply
with this chapter no later than seven (7) years after such effective date
(February 24, 1985). (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-2)
9-2-3: INTERPRETATION OF WORDS AND TERMS:
   A.   For the purpose of these regulations, certain terms and words are to be
used and interpreted as defined hereinafter. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future and words used in
the singular include the plural. The word "shall" is mandatory and not
directory.
   B.   Whenever the terms "dwelling", "dwelling unit", "rooming house",
"rooming unit", "mobile home court", or "premises" are used in this chapter,
they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part
thereof". (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-3)
9-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
APPROVED: Approved by the health official and/or building inspector charged
with responsibility for administering this chapter.
AVAILABLE: A water, sewer, or electrical system shall be deemed available when
a suitable connection to the system lies within one hundred feet (100') of the
premises to be served.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building located partly underground by having less
than one-half (1/2) of its clear floor to ceiling height below the average
grade of the adjoining ground.
BOARDING HOUSE: A rooming house which provides meals for occupants in a common
dining room.
CELLAR: A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground and having
one-half (1/2) or more than one-half (1/2) of its clear floor to ceiling height
below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
CITY: The city of Jay, Oklahoma.
CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   The legally appointed official designated by the mayor as an authorized
agent of the city with responsibility for enforcement of building, plumbing,
electrical, housing and other codes adopted by the city for the health, welfare
and safety of the citizens.
   B.   The legally designated building authority of the city of Jay, or his
representative.
DWELLING: Any building or structure or any part thereof which is used or
intended to be used for living or sleeping by human occupants.
DWELLING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and forming
a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
EXTERMINATION: The control or elimination of insects, rodents or other pests by
eliminating their harboring places; by removing or making inaccessible material
that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigation, trapping,
blocking their access to a dwelling; or by any other recognized and legal pest
elimination methods approved by the building inspector.
GARBAGE: The animal, vegetable, or other organic waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
HABITABLE FLOOR AREA: The square footage in a habitable room which shall be
used in computing maximum permissible occupancy. At least one-half (1/2) of the
habitable floor area shall have a height of at least seven feet (7'), and the
floor area of that part of any room where the ceiling height is less than five
feet (5') shall not be considered in computing habitable floor area.
HABITABLE ROOM: A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes excluding bathrooms, water closet
compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers, or communication corridors, closets,
and storage spaces.
INFESTATION: The presence, within or around a dwelling or anywhere on the
premises, of insects, rodents, or other pests, in such numbers as to constitute
a hazard to health.
MOBILE HOME: A manufactured home or a manufactured home dwelling.
MOBILE HOME COURT: A manufactured home park or subdivision as further defined
under title 10, "Planning And Zoning Regulations", of this code.
MOBILE OR TRANSPORTABLE TEMPORARY HOUSING: Any tent, trailer, travel trailer,
vacation trailer, or structure, other than a mobile home, used for human
shelter which is designed to be primarily transportable and which is not
attached to the ground, or other structure, or to any utility systems on the
same premises for more than thirty (30) consecutive days.
MOBILE TRAILER, TRAVEL TRAILER, VACATION TRAILER: A movable living unit,
equipped with a chassis but lacking any of the following systems and equipment:
plumbing, heating, electrical, cooking, and refrigeration, or containing any or
all of the systems and equipment herein listed but being of size less than
forty feet (40') in length and less than one hundred feet (100') wide.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: Any dwelling containing more than two (2) dwelling
units.
OCCUPANT: Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in or having
possession or use of a dwelling unit or rooming unit. For the purpose of this
definition, a person under one year of age shall not be counted as an occupant.
OPERATOR: Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building or part
thereof in which dwelling units are let.
OWNER: Any person who, alone, jointly, or severally with others:
   A.   Shall have legal or equitable title to any dwelling or dwelling unit
with or without actual possession thereof; or
   B.   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit as
owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such
person thus representing the actual owner shall be found to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, and with rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, to the same extent as if he were the owner.
PERSON: Means and includes any individual, firm, or corporation, association,
or partnership.
PLUMBING: Means and includes all of the following supplied facilities and
equipment: gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage
disposal units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwasher,
lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch
basins, drains, vents, and other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer, or gas lines.
PUBLIC SPACE: Space within a residential building for public use, such as
lobbies, lounges, reception hall, meeting, lecture, and recreation rooms;
banquet and dining rooms and their kitchens; and swimming pools.
REFUSE: All waste substances, other than garbage, including, but not limited
to, the following: trash or waste materials; paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery, ceramic material and dust.
ROOMING HOUSE: Any dwelling or part thereof in which a rooming unit is let by
the owner or operator to three (3) or more persons who are not related to the
owner or operator by blood or marriage; or any dwelling or part thereof,
containing two (2) or more rooming units.
ROOMING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms in a rooming house or dwelling forming
a single habitable unit used or intended for use for living or sleeping but not
for cooking or storing or eating purposes.
SUPPLIED: Paid for, arranged for, furnished or provided by or under control of
the owner or operator. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-4)
9-2-5: BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES:
   A.   Water Heating And Storage: Every dwelling shall have supplied water
heating and storage facilities which are properly installed, maintained in safe
and good working condition, and properly connected to furnish hot water to
every sink, lavatory, bathtub, or shower required therein.
      1.   Water heating facilities shall be capable of delivering at every
required outlet at a temperature of not less than one hundred twenty degrees
Fahrenheit (120°F).
      2.   Hot water storage facilities shall be provided and shall be able to
store amounts at least equal to or greater than the amounts given in the
following schedule:
         a.   Minimum per dwelling unit: Twenty (20) gallons.
         b.   Minimum per occupant: Four (4) gallons.
   B.   Required Facilities: Every dwelling unit shall contain the following
facilities:
      1.   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected to
hot and cold water lines and a sewage disposal system.
      2.   A flush water closet, located within the building and in a room
affording privacy, and which is properly connected to a water line and sewage
disposal system.
      3.   A bathtub or shower, located within a room affording privacy which
shall be supplied by both hot and cold water lines and connected to a sewage
disposal system.
      4.   A lavatory which shall be supplied by both hot and cold water lines
and connected to a sewage disposal system.
   C.   Sharing Sanitary Facilities: Upon application and after hearing, the
board of appeals and adjustment under procedures established in
title 10, chapter 10, article A of this code, may grant its approval and
permission for the occupants of not more than two (2) dwelling units occupying
the same building to share a flush water closet, a lavatory basin, and a
bathtub or shower; provided, that in no event shall a total of more than six
(6) persons occupy the dwelling units sharing such sanitary facilities.
   D.   Septic Tank Installation: Where both city water supply and sanitary
sewer are available, no septic tank shall be installed. When a sanitary sewer
is not available, a septic tank may be installed which is in compliance with
the rules and regulations of the state health department and the standards and
regulations governing septic tank construction of the city.
   E.   Compliance With Plumbing Code: All plumbing fixtures and facilities
shall conform to standards established in the adopted plumbing code.
   F.   Garbage Containers: Every dwelling shall have garbage and refuse
containers which are of metal or other approved material, flyproof with
tightfitting lids, and which shall not exceed a twenty (20) gallon capacity, or
plastic bags fully secured and not ruptured.
   G.   Means Of Egress: Every dwelling unit shall have safe unobstructed means
of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-
5)
9-2-6: LIGHT, VENTILATION AND HEATING:
   A.   Lighting And Ventilation: Every habitable room shall have at least one
window or skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window
area, measured between stops, shall be ten percent (10%) of the habitable floor
area of such room. If the only window in the room is a skylight type window in
the top of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at
least fifteen percent (15%) of the habitable floor area of the room it serves.
      1.   In every habitable room, at least forty percent (40%) of the window
or skylight required shall be easily opened unless one of the following methods
of ventilating the room is approved:
         a.   For inside the habitable rooms, a wall area equivalent to twenty
percent (20%) of the floor area must be open into a room with adequate light
and ventilation; provided, that in such cases, the window area shall be at
least eight percent (8%) of the total floor area to be served by such windows.
         b.   Kitchens may be equipped with a ventilation system capable of
continuous operation.
      2.   Bathrooms and water closet compartments may be equipped with a
ventilation system which is capable of continuous operation.
      3.   Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of any
room and such light obstruction structures are located less than three feet
(3') from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the
room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors, and
shall not be included as contributing to the total required window area.
   B.   Electricity: Where there is electric service available, the dwelling
shall be supplied with electricity and shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Every habitable room shall contain at least two (2) separate wall
type electric convenience outlets or one such convenience outlet and one
supplied ceiling type light fixture.
      2.   Every water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, and public
hall shall contain at least one ceiling or wall type electric light fixture.
      3.   Every public hall or stairway in or leading into every multiple
dwelling shall have a minimum of one foot-candle or illumination measurable
with a standard light meter at floor level in halls and at tread level on
stairways when the structure is occupied.
   C.   Heating Facilities: Every dwelling unit shall have heating facilities
which are properly installed, are maintained in safe and good working
condition, and are capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments therein to a temperature of
seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) at a distance three feet (3') above floor
level at an outside temperature of zero degrees Fahrenheit (0°F). Such heating
equipment shall be operated as is reasonably necessary to maintain a
temperature in all habitable rooms at not less than seventy degrees Fahrenheit
(70°F). (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-6)
9-2-7: SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling, and roof shall be reasonably
weathertight, watertight, and rodentproof; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be kept in good repair.
   B.   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weathertight, watertight, and rodentproof; and shall be kept in good repair.
   C.   Every inside and outside stairs, every porch, and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load the normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
   D.   Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects,
leaks and obstructions.
   E.   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor surface
shall be constructed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free
from defects, leaks and obstructions.
   F.   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or utility which is
required under this chapter shall be so constructed or installed that it will
function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in satisfactory
working condition.
   G.   No owner, operator, or occupant shall furnish or use any cooking
equipment which does not comply with the following minimum standards:
      1.   Every piece of cooking equipment shall be so constructed and
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in good working condition.
      2.   Portable cooking equipment employing flame and cooking equipment
using gasoline or kerosene as fuel for cooking are prohibited.
   H.   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment, or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed from
or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling let or occupied by
him, except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while actual
repairs or alterations are in process, or during temporary emergencies when
discontinuance of service is approved by the building inspector.
   I.   No owner shall occupy or let to any other occupant any vacant dwelling
unit unless it is clean and in a sanitary condition. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-7)
9-2-8: MINIMUM SPACE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Space: Every dwelling unit shall contain at least one hundred fifty
(150) square feet of habitable floor space for the first occupant thereof and
at least one hundred (100) additional square feet of habitable floor space for
every additional occupant; provided, however, that a dwelling unit exclusive of
mobile homes shall contain at least one habitable room having a minimum
horizontal height of ten feet (10'); and further provided, that the amount of
area allowed as habitable floor area for the purpose of complying with these
regulations shall not be in excess of eighty percent (80%) of the gross floor
area. Gross floor area shall include all of the area encompassed by measuring
from the outside face of the exterior walls.
   B.   Sleeping Rooms: In every dwelling unit of two (2) or more rooms, every
room occupied for sleeping purposes by the occupant shall contain at least
seventy (70) square feet of floor space and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than one occupant, including buildings operated as clubs,
dormitories, etc., shall contain at least fifty (50) square feet of floor space
for each occupant therefor.
   C.   Access To Bathroom: No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two (2) or
more sleeping rooms shall have such room arrangements that access to a bathroom
or water closet department intended for use by occupants of more than one
sleeping room can be had only by going through another sleeping room, nor shall
room arrangements be such that access to a sleeping room can be had only by
going through another sleeping room or a bathroom, or water closet compartment.
   D.   Basement Or Cellar Space: No basement or cellar space shall be used as
a habitable room or dwelling unit unless:
      1.   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness; and
      2.   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum window area sizes as required in section
9-2-6 of this chapter, except where there is supplied some other device
affording adequate approved ventilation.
   E.   Temporary Housing: No temporary housing shall be used without the
written permission of the building inspector. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-8)
9-2-9: OWNER AND OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Every owner of a dwelling containing three (3) or more dwelling units
shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the
shared or public areas of the dwelling and the premises thereof.
   B.   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling,
dwelling unit, and premises thereof which he occupies and controls.
   C.   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall dispose of all his garbage and
rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in garbage disposal
facilities or in the containers required by subsection
9-2-5F of this chapter. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to supply
such facilities or containers for all dwelling units in a dwelling containing
four (4) or more dwelling units and for all dwelling units located on the
premises which four (4) or more units share. In all other cases, it shall be
the responsibility of the occupant to furnish such facilities or containers.
   D.   The owner is responsible for extermination of any insects, rodents, or
other pests, when such infestation exists, in the following cases:
      1.   In any dwelling containing one or more units when infestation is due
to the failure of the owner to keep the dwelling or dwelling units in insect,
rodent, or pest proof condition.
      2.   In the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two (2) or
more of the dwelling units.
   E.   The occupant is responsible for extermination of any insects, rodents,
or other pests, when such infestation exists, in the following cases:
      1.   Every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing one or
more dwelling units shall be responsible when his dwelling unit is the only one
infested.
      2.   Every occupant of a dwelling containing only one dwelling unit shall
be responsible for extermination if the owner of the dwelling has kept it in
insect, rodent, or pest proof condition.
   F.   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit shall give
the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of such
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, or its premises at any reasonable hour
for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter or any lawful order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-9)
9-2-10: ROOMING HOUSES:
   A.   Specific Standards: Rooming houses shall conform to all the
requirements and provisions of this chapter, and to any rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, with the following exceptions or additions:
      1.   At least one flush water closet, one lavatory basin, and one bathtub
or shower, properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the
building inspector and in good working condition, shall be supplied for each
six (6) persons or fraction thereof residing within a rooming house, including
members of the operator's family whenever they share the use of the said
facilities. In a rooming house in which rooms are let only to males, flush
urinals may be substituted for not more than one-half (1/2) the required number
of water closets.
         a.   All such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling as to
be reasonably accessible from a common hall or passageway to all persons
sharing such facilities.
         b.   Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot water at all times.
         c.   No such facilities shall be located in a basement except by
written approval of the building inspector.
      2.   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall
contain at least seventy (70) square feet of floor space, and every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one person shall contain at least
fifty (50) square feet of floor space for each occupant thereof.
      3.   The preparation and cooking of food shall not take place in any
rooming unit.
      4.   The operator of every rooming house shall change supplied bed linen
and towels therein at least once a week, and prior to letting of any room to
any occupant. The operator shall be responsible for maintaining all supplied
bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
      5.   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings, and for maintenance of
a sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming house; and he shall be
further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where
the entire structure or building is leased or occupied by the operator.
      6.   Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level as required by laws of the state
and the city.
      7.   Every provision of this chapter which applies to rooming houses
shall also apply to hotels, except to the extent that any such provision may be
found in conflict with the laws of the state or with the lawful regulations of
any state board or agency. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-10)
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Issuance; Fee: Every person operating a rooming house shall secure
from the city clerk a rooming house permit. Such permit shall be issued only
when the building inspector finds that the rooming house is structurally sound,
free from fire hazards, and in conformance with all provisions of this chapter
and any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
         a.   This permit shall be displayed at all times in a conspicuous
place within the rooming house. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-11)
         b.   This permit is nontransferable. A fee of twenty nine dollars
($29.00) shall be charged for the permit. Every person holding such a permit
shall give notice in writing to the building inspector within twenty four (24)
hours after sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise disposed of interest
in, or control of, the rooming house.
         c.   Every rooming house permit shall expire on June 30 each year
following its date of issuance, unless suspended or revoked as hereinafter
provided. Fee for issuance shall be prorated for portions of full month
increments to annual expiration. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-11; amd. 2016 Code)
         d.   Any person whose application for a permit to operate a rooming
house has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on this matter
before the board of appeals under the procedure provided in
title 10, chapter 10, article A of this code.
      2.   Suspension: Whenever upon inspection of any rooming house the
building inspector finds that conditions or practices exist which are in
violation of any provision of this chapter or of any rule or regulation adopted
pursuant hereto, the building inspector shall give notice in writing to the
operator of such rooming house that unless such conditions or practices are
corrected within a reasonable period, the operator's rooming house permit will
be suspended. At the end of such period, the building inspector shall reinspect
such rooming house, and if he finds that such conditions or practices have not
been corrected, he shall give notice in writing to the operator to immediately
cease operation of such rooming house, and no person shall occupy for sleeping
or living purposes any rooming unit therein.
      3.   Procedure For Appeal: Any person whose permit to operate a rooming
house has been denied or suspended, or who has received notice from the
authorized city official that his permit is to be denied or suspended unless
existing conditions or practices at this rooming house are corrected, may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter as provided in
title 10, chapter 10, article A of this code; provided, that if no petition for
such hearing is filed within ten (10) days following the day on which such
permit was suspended, such permit shall be deemed to have been automatically
revoked. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-11)
9-2-11: MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES:
Mobile and manufactured homes shall be constructed in accordance with and
conform to all applicable federal laws and regulations including, but not
limited to, the national manufactured housing construction and safety standards
act of 1974 (42 USC section 501 et seq.). (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-12)
9-2-12: MOBILE HOME COURTS:
   A.   General Requirements: Mobile home courts shall be designed and
constructed to conform to applicable zoning and building regulations and comply
with title 10, chapters 7 and 8 of this code, and the following:
      1.   Drainage: Mobile home courts shall have adequate facilities for
drainage of surface and subsurface water. This shall include proper grading and
installation, where necessary, of gutters, culverts, catch basins, drain
inlets, stormwater, sewer or other satisfactory drainage systems.
      2.   Surfacing: Walks, driveways, and parking spaces shall be provided
with a sealed surface pavement and arranged in a manner that provides safe and
convenient access under normal use and weather conditions.
      3.   Overhead Wires: Wires installed above driveways and parking spaces
shall have clearance of not less than eighteen feet (18').
      4.   Maintenance: Mobile home courts shall be properly maintained so as
to ensure the desirable residential character of the property.
   B.   Utilities: Mobile home courts shall be provided with the following
utilities which shall have sufficient capacity to supply the requirements of
the mobile home court and the maximum number of mobile homes which will be
located therein: water supply system, sewage disposal system, electrical
system, which shall meet the following conditions:
      1.   Water Supply System: No water supply system other than the Jay water
system shall be authorized.
      2.   Sewage Disposal System: No sewage disposal system other than the
municipal sewer system shall be authorized.
      3.   Electrical System: The electrical system shall be designed to
provide adequate capacity to supply the connected load without exceeding the
current capacity of conductors.
      4.   Gas System: No gas system other than the municipal gas system shall
be authorized. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-13)
9-2-13: ENFORCEMENT; SERVING OF NOTICES AND ORDERS:
Whenever the building inspector determines that there has been a violation of
any provision of this chapter, he shall give notice of such violation to the
person or persons responsible therefor and order compliance with this chapter
as hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
   A.   Be in writing.
   B.   Include a list of violations referring to the sections violated.
   C.   Order remedial action to be taken which will effect compliance with the
provisions violated.
   D.   Specify a reasonable time for performance.
   E.   Be served on the violator personally, or by certified mail, to his last
known address.
   F.   Inform the violator of the appeals process before the board of
adjustment as described in
title 10, chapter 10, article A of this code. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-14)
9-2-14: ORDER TO VACATE PREMISES:
Where a notice of violation and order to comply has been served pursuant to
section
9-2-13 of this chapter, and upon reinspection at the end of the time specified
for compliance, if no petition for a hearing has been filed, and it is found
that the violation or violations continue to exist, the building inspector may
order the habitation affected by the continued violations, vacated in
accordance with the following procedure:
   A.   A habitation shall be vacated within a reasonable time which shall not
exceed sixty (60) days.
   B.   Vacated habitation shall have all outer doors firmly locked and
basement, cellar, and first story windows barred or boarded to prevent injury.
   C.   If a habitation is not vacated within the time specified in a vacation
order, the building inspector may seek an order in a court of competent
jurisdiction to require compliance with the order.
   D.   Vacated habitation shall not again be used for human occupancy unless
the violations have been corrected and an occupancy permit has been issued by
the building inspector. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-15)
9-2-15: CONDEMNATION:
   A.   Conditions Considered Unfit: Any habitation shall be condemned as unfit
for human occupancy if it is found to be in one or more of the following
conditions:
      1.   So damaged, decaying, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, or vermin
infested that it created a serious hazard to the health and safety of the
occupants or of the public.
      2.   So deficient in illumination, sanitation, or ventilation facilities
adequate to protect the health and safety of the occupants or of the public.
      3.   So located as to be dangerous to the health or safety of the
occupants or of the public.
   B.   Notification For Vacation: Whenever the building inspector determines
that a habitation is unfit for human occupancy as defined above, he shall give
notification for vacation by the following procedure:
      1.   Affix upon the door or entrance to such habitation a printed placard
stating that the habitation is unfit for human occupancy and shall be vacated
according to the procedure prescribed in section
9-2-14 of this chapter.
      2.   Any habitation which has been condemned, placarded, and vacated
shall not again be used for human occupancy until written approval is secured
from, and such placard is removed by, the building inspector. He shall remove
the placard only upon the elimination of the defects upon which the
condemnation and the placard were based.
      3.   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the
condemning and placarding of a habitation as unfit for human occupancy may
request and shall be granted a hearing in the matter under the procedure set
forth in
title 10, chapter 10, article A of this code.
   C.   Order For Repair Or Demolition: If an owner, occupant, or lessee fails
to comply with an order of the building inspector, issued under this section or
an order or decision of the board of appeals made under this chapter, the
building inspector shall cause such habitation to be vacated and, if delay will
be dangerous to the health, morals, safety, or the general welfare of the
people, after obtaining authorization from the governing body of the city, may
cause it to be repaired or demolished. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 7-16)
9-2-16: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED:
No habitation shall be so occupied until a certificate of occupancy is obtained
from the building inspector, upon his finding that the habitation is in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. If the building inspector
determines that there is a violation of this chapter, he shall cancel the
certificate of occupancy and proceed with the enforcement thereof. (1985 Code
ch. 4 § 7-17)
CHAPTER 3
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND TRAILER PARKS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: License Required
9-3-3: Application And Fee
9-3-4: Plans; Bond
9-3-5: Site Requirements
9-3-6: Codes Applicable
9-3-7: Required Area
9-3-8: Ordinances Applicable
9-3-9: Park Attendant
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
MHMA: Mobile Home Manufacturer's Association.
PARK: A recreational vehicle or trailer park as defined in this section.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND/OR TRAILER: Any vehicle designed so as to permit
occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters for one or more persons, which may be
mounted on wheels and/or propelled by its own power, which has been factory
assembled of a length less than forty feet (40') and less than ten feet (10')
wide, and factory equipped with at least one water closet, one bathtub or
shower, and one lavatory and one kitchen sink, installed in compliance with
MHMA minimum standards or TCA specifications.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND TRAILER PARK: Any tract of ground consisting of not
less than two (2) acres of land upon which are sites or lots for trailers, of
the size, improved and equipped as hereafter specified, and which rents or
leases spaces therein for periods of time not less than thirty (30) days.
SITE OR LOT: A well defined plot of land designed as the location for a single
vehicle or trailer not less than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
TCA: Trailer Coach Association. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 8-1)
9-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, or maintain
a recreational vehicle or trailer park as defined in this chapter, without
having first secured a license therefor and having paid the proper fee for
inspection of the construction of such park. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 8-2)
   B.   Such license shall expire on June 30 of each year and may be renewed
annually upon written application to the city clerk; provided, however, that no
license shall be renewed, except with the approval of the city council, if the
owner or manager has been finally convicted in a court of proper jurisdiction
of a violation of the laws of the state of Oklahoma, or a crime involving moral
turpitude. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 8-2; amd. 2016 Code)
9-3-3: APPLICATION AND FEE:
   A.   Any person desiring a license for the operation of a recreational
vehicle or trailer park shall file an application therefor with the city clerk,
and pay to said city clerk the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00), and file a
corporate surety bond in the sum of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00),
conditioned to guarantee compliance with all requirements of this chapter
during the term of said permit. The application shall state the name and
address of the owner of the land involved and the legal description of the
premises upon which the park is to be located. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 8-3; amd.
2016 Code)
   B.   The licenses issued under the terms of this chapter shall not convey
any right to erect any building, or do any plumbing or electrical work without
compliance with other applicable ordinances with reference thereto to the city.
(1985 Code ch. 4 § 8-3)
9-3-4: PLANS; BOND:
   A.   Any person desiring to construct and/or operate a recreational vehicle
or trailer park in the city shall file with the city clerk his application for
license together with one complete set of plans and specifications for all
improvements to be placed upon the property. The plans for the area shall show
the entire area to be used together with improvements on adjoining property, if
any, roads and driveways within the park, location of sites or lots, and
abutting streets and alleys, location of water lines, sewer lines, gas lines,
electrical lines and any other utilities and plans for electrical street
lighting, and any other necessary information that the city planning commission
may require.
   B.   No construction may begin upon the park area until a license is issued.
Prior to the issuance of any such license, final approval must be obtained from
the city council as recommended by the planning commission. The applicant shall
file with the city clerk a corporate surety bond conditioned to guarantee
improvement of such area according to said plans and specifications, within a
time specified by the city planning commission, which may be one and the same
bond as that required in section
9-3-3 of this chapter. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 8-4)
9-3-5: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No occupied mobile unit or building of any nature shall be located
within the city limits nearer to the roads and streets than the applicable
setback line for the zoning district in which such mobile unit or building is
located. Side yards and back yards between unit sites shall be not less than
required by ordinance for the zone in which the park is located.
   B.   Every recreational vehicle or trailer park shall be located on an area
having good drainage of surface waters, and fire hydrants shall be installed
every three hundred feet (300') or less along the streets therein.
   C.   All sites or lots shall be clearly designated and the park so arranged
that all sites abut on a driveway or street at least sixteen feet (16') in
width, giving access to all units from public streets. All driveways and roads
within the park shall be paved so as to have natural drainage and shall be well
lighted at night and unobstructed.
   D.   All sites abutting a street or drive of less than thirty feet (30') in
width shall have at least one paved off street parking space.
   E.   Connections for sanitary sewer facilities, water, gas, or electricity
shall be provided in a common location at each site. Electrical connections
must be sufficient for fifty (50) amps with circuit breakers installed at each
site.
   F.   Every site shall be provided with garbage disposal facilities
accessible to sanitation pick up means.
   G.   Each site shall be improved by the construction of a two hundred (200)
square foot concrete patio and an anchor pad containing twenty four (24) cubic
feet of concrete with one- half inch (1/2") galvanized rings or bolts. (1985
Code ch. 4 § 8-5)
9-3-6: CODES APPLICABLE:
   A.   All plumbing, electrical, building, and other work on any park licensed
under this chapter shall be performed in accordance with the codes of the city
regulating the same unless said codes are specifically made inapplicable under
the terms thereof or under the terms of this chapter; provided, however, that
any employee of any park licensed under this chapter may connect and disconnect
water, gas, or sewer facilities to individual units located in any park
operated under the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Sewer connection inspection fees for recreational vehicle or trailer
parks shall be those applicable to multi-family dwellings and each site within
the park shall be deemed a family unit.
   C.   The provisions of the housing code for the city adopted in chapter 2 of
this title shall be applicable to this chapter unless specifically excepted.
(1985 Code ch. 4 § 8-7)
9-3-7: REQUIRED AREA:
   A.   In a recreational vehicle or trailer park, there shall not be more than
twelve (12) mobile home sites per acre, inclusive of streets, alleys and public
ways.
   B.   Recreation and playground areas shall consist of not less than five
percent (5%) of the total area within the confines of said park and shall be
maintained by the park owner. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 8-8)
9-3-8: ORDINANCES APPLICABLE:
All ordinances enacted by the city pertaining to traffic and vehicles, and the
control of pets and/or animals shall be fully as effective within the park as
though streets and driveways were dedicated to public use. (1985 Code ch. 4 §
8-9; amd. 2016 Code)
9-3-9: PARK ATTENDANT:
   A.   Park Office; Register Of Guests: In every recreational vehicle or
trailer park, there shall be a building in which shall be located the office of
the person in charge of the park. A copy of the city license issued by the
city, together with a copy of this chapter pertaining thereto, and a plan of
the area involved, shall be posted for public view. The park register shall be
kept at all times in said office and subject to inspection by city authorities
at all times.
   B.   Attendant Duties: It is hereby made the duty of the attendant or person
in charge, and licensee, of said park to:
      1.   Keep a register at all times of all guests, showing:
         a.   Name of the person owning the unit;
         b.   A license number of the unit and/or owner's vehicle license
number, together with the name of the state where such license was issued;
         c.   Date of entrance into the park;
         d.   Number of people residing in the unit and their names.
      2.   Maintain the park in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times.
      3.   Assure that the provisions of this chapter are complied with by the
occupants of the park and report promptly to city authorities violations of
this chapter or other ordinances.
      4.   Report to the city authorities all cases of persons or animals
suspected of being infected with any communicable disease. (1985 Code ch. 4 §
8-6)
CHAPTER 4
MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Exemptions
9-4-3: Modular/Mobile/Manufactured Home In Residential Districts
9-4-4: Module/Mobile/Manufactured Commercial Buildings In Commercial Districts
9-4-5: Application For Variance
9-4-6: Utilities Hookup And Meter
9-4-7: Tie Down And Skirting Requirements
9-4-8: Parking Of Motor Vehicles
9-4-9: Accessory Or Supporting Structures
9-4-10: Noncompliance With Regulations
9-4-11: Penalties And Enforcement
9-4-1: DEFINITION:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
 
                                        A structure on the same lot with, but
ACCESSORY USE:                          incidental and subordinate to, the
                                        principal use or structure.
                                        A mobile/manufactured dwelling that was
                                        used as permanent residence on a parcel
                                        of land prior to the effective date of
EXISTING MOBILE/ MANUFACTURED DWELLING: this chapter. All such, unless in
                                        compliance with the provisions of this
                                        article, shall be considered as a non-
                                        conforming use.
                                        dwelling unit, designed and built in a
                                        factory, which bears a seal certifying
                                        that it was built in compliance with
                                        the National Manufactured Housing
                                        Construction and Safety Standards Act
                                        and is a movable residential dwelling
MANUFACTURED HOME/ MANUFACTURED         designed for year-round occupancy with
DWELLING:                               no foundation other than wheels, jacks,
                                        or skirtings, and capable of being
                                        moved, towed, or transported by another
                                        vehicle (i.e. built on a chassis).
                                        Removal of its wheels and placement
                                        upon permanent foundation shall not
                                        warrant re-classification to a
                                        conventional single-family dwelling.
 
 
                                An area in which spaces are provided on a
                                rental basis or lease basis only for
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK:         owner occupied manufactured homes, or in
                                which both the space and the manufactured
                                home are offered to the public on a
                                rental or lease basis only.
                                A single commercial unit, designed and
                                built in a factory and is a movable
                                commercial unit designed for year-round
                                occupancy with no foundation other than
MOBILE/ MANUFACTURED COMMERCIAL wheels, jacks, or skirtings, and capable
BUILDING:                       of being moved, towed, or transported by
                                another vehicle. Removal of its wheels
                                and placement upon a permanent foundation
                                shall not warrant re-classification to a
                                conventional commercial building.
                                A combination of two or more buildings
                                manufactured in whole or in part in an
                                off-site manufacturing facility designed
                                to be transported to a building site on
                                their own wheels, attached to a chassis,
                                or by a trailer, or other similar
MODULAR COMMERCIAL BUILDING:    carrier. Modular commercial buildings may
                                or may not be constructed with an
                                integral chassis, permanent hitch,
                                wheels, axles, or other device allowing
                                transportation. Modular commercial
                                buildings must meet current building
                                codes.
                                A residential dwelling manufactured in
                                whole or in part in an off-site
                                manufacturing facility designed to be
                                transported to a building site by a
                                trailer or other similar carrier which is
                                not designed to be permanently attached
                                to the dwelling or remain with it after
MODULAR HOME DWELLING:          the structure is placed on its permanent
                                foundation. Modular homes are not
                                constructed with an integral chassis,
                                permanent hitch, wheels, axles, or other
                                device allowing transportation. Modular
                                homes must meet the Official Building
                                Code of the City of Jay and be approved
                                by the building official.
 
 
                                    For the purposes of this chapter, any non-
                                    conforming structure which was lawful
                                    before the adoption of this chapter may
                                    continue to be used as long as it is
NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE:           adequately maintained and does not
                                    constitute a public hazard or nuisance, and
                                    provided that it is not expanded, extended,
                                    enlarged in floor area, or changed in basic
                                    structural design and integrity. Ownership
                                    and occupancy is nontransferable.
                                    An accessory use which may be a structure
                                    or concession trailer, with or without
RETAIL STAND OR CONCESSION TRAILER: wheels which offers merchandise, food,
                                    snacks, beverages, or food preparation out
                                    of the structure or trailer no greater than
                                    300 square feet. (Ord. 340, 10-7-2019)
 
9-4-2: EXEMPTIONS:
Existing mobile/manufactured dwellings will be grandfathered in and considered
a legal non-conforming structure.
Mobile/manufactured dwellings located in RMH Mobile Home Residential Districts
or Mobile Home Park Residential Districts already grandfathered in.
Modular commercial buildings, as defined herein.
As temporary sales office for the sale of mobile/manufactured dwellings or
commercial buildings on land, which is zoned for, said purpose.
Temporary use, as needed for the day to day operation of federal, state,
county, or city government, including public school systems, such uses could
include, police precincts and substations, and public health services.
Temporary classroom space in conjunction with a church or private or parochial
school.
Temporary construction offices on construction sites.
Temporary use, as an accessory use, which offers merchandise, food, snacks,
beverages, or food preparation. (Ord. 340, 10-7-2019)
9-4-3: MODULAR/MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Regarding placement of manufactured homes on lots in residential districts, the
Board of Adjustments and City Council shall have the power and authority to
grant variances as they shall deem appropriate. Such variances shall be granted
or denied by the Board of Adjustments and City Council on a case by case basis
upon a majority vote at any meeting where a quorum is present. (Ord. 195, 8-18-
1988; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 340, 10-7-2019)
9-4-4: MODULE/MOBILE/MANUFACTURED COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
Regarding placement of manufactured buildings on lots in commercial districts,
the Board of Adjustments and City Council shall have the power and authority to
grant variances as they shall deem appropriate. Such variances shall be granted
or denied by the Board of Adjustment and City Council on a case by case basis
upon a majority vote at any meeting where a quorum is present. (Ord. 195, 8-18-
1988; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 340, 10-7-2019)
9-4-5: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:
   A.   Contents of Application: Application for a variance shall be made in
writing to the city clerk. The application shall state:
      1.   The proposed location (legal description of lot or address) where
the mobile home is to be placed.
      2.   Size and type of said mobile home, and size of the lot on which the
mobile home is to be placed, and a diagram showing measurements of the lot and
mobile home and showing proposed location of mobile home upon the lot, together
with measurements showing distance between mobile home and front, side, and
rear boundaries of the lot.
      3.   Proposed method of sewerage, water and electricity connections.
      4.   Type of proposed foundation, including the number, location, and
type of anchoring devices to be used.
   B.   Payment of Fees: Applicant shall pay all fees in accordance with the
schedule of fees in force for permits.
   C.   Request For Variance: Along with satisfying the above requirements in
all instances where a variance is requested, the request will be heard by the
board of adjustment as a request for variance under the provisions of
title 10, chapter 10 , article A of this code. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 9-7; amd.
Ord. 340, 10-7-2019)
9-4-6: UTILITIES HOOKUP AND METER:
All manufactured buildings must be connected to the sanitary sewer and have its
own metering for water and gas, all of which conform to the ordinances and
regulations pertaining to utility service of the city. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 9-3;
Ord. 340, 10-7-2019)
9-4-7: TIE DOWN AND SKIRTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Skirting: All manufactured buildings installed in the city are required
to be skirted with material of like kind and quality as the exterior of the
manufactured home itself. The skirting shall completely cover the underside of
the manufactured home.
   B.   Foundation and Tie Down Specifications: Foundations and tie downs shall
meet or exceed the following specifications:
      1.   Piers And Footings: All piers and footings shall be spaced at a
maximum of ten foot (10') intervals on both frame rails with end piers no
farther than five feet (5') from end of mobile home; footings of solid concrete
sixteen inches by sixteen inches by four inches (16" x 16" x 4"); piers of
standards eight inches by eight inches by sixteen inches (8" x 8" x 16")
concrete blocks, open or closed cells with open cells in a vertical position.
Wood blocks used for leveling not exceeding a maximum of four inch (4")
thickness extending the length and width of the mobile home is acceptable.
Piers shall be double locked with blocks interlocked and capped with a filler
of wood or concrete footing measuring a minimum twenty four inches by twenty
four inches (24" x 24") in width by eighteen inches (18") in depth with steel
reinforcing dowels. Piers shall be a minimum sixteen inches by sixteen inches
(16" x 16") with blocks interlocked and laid in; mortar with steel reinforcing
dowels in each of the block cells and tied into the footing. All block cells
shall be filled with concrete.
   C.   Anchoring Installations:
      1.   Every ground anchor shall have specifications data showing the soil
classifications for which it qualifies. Anchor selection shall be based on a
determination of the soil classification at the depth at which the anchor will
be installed. Ground anchors, including means for attaching ties, shall be
located to comply with anchoring system instructions provided by the
manufactured home manufacturer, or, if there are no instructions, in accordance
with the requirements of this standard.
      2.   Ground anchors shall be designed and installed to transfer the
anchoring loads to the ground. The load carrying portion of the ground anchors
shall be installed to the full depth called for by the manufacturer’s
installation directions and shall extend below the established frost line into
undisturbed soil.
      3.   Manufactured ground anchors shall be listed by an approved testing
agency and installed in accordance with the terms of their listing and the
anchor manufacturer’s instructions, and shall include means of attachment of
ties meeting the requirements of subsection B7 of this section, which includes
ground anchor manufactured homes, particularly damage that can be caused by
frost heave. Each ground anchor shall be marked with the manufacturer’s
identification and listed model identification number which shall be visible
after installation. Instructions shall accompany each listed ground anchor
specifying the types of soil for which the anchor is suitable under the
requirements of this section.
      4.   Each approved ground anchor, when installed, shall be capable of
resisting an allowable working load at least equal to three thousand one
hundred fifty (3,150) pounds at forty (40) to fifty degrees (50°) from vertical
without displacing the ties end of the anchor more than four inches (4")
horizontally. Anchors designed for connection of multiple ties shall be capable
of resisting the combined workload and overload consistent with the intent
expressed herein.
      5.   Anchoring Equipment: Anchoring equipment, when installed as a
permanent installation, shall be capable of resisting all loads as specified
within this standard. When the stabilizing system is designed by a registered
professional engineer or architect, alternative designs may be used; provided,
that the anchoring equipment to be used is capable of withstanding a fifty
percent (50%) overload.
      6.   Resistance To Weather Deterioration: All anchoring equipment exposed
to weathering shall have a resistance to weather deterioration at least
equivalent to that provided by a coating of zinc on steel of not less than six
hundred twenty five thousandths (0.625) ounce per square foot on each side of
the surface coated, as determined by ASTM A90-69. Slit or cut edges of zinc
coated steel strapping do not need to be zinc coated.
      7.   Permanency Of Connections: Anchoring systems shall be so installed
as to be permanent. Anchoring equipment shall be designed to prevent self-
disconnection with no hook ends used.
      8.   Tension Device Design: Tension devices, such as turnbuckles or yoke
type fasteners, shall be ended with clevis or forged or welded eyes.
      9.   Ties, Materials And Installation: Steel strapping, cable, chain, or
other approved materials shall be used for ties. All ties shall be fastened to
ground anchors and drawn tight with turnbuckles or other adjustable tension
devices or devices supplied with the ground anchor. Tie materials shall be
capable of resisting an allowable working load of three thousand one hundred
fifty (3,150) pounds with no more than two percent (2%) elongation and shall
withstand a fifty percent (50%) overload (4,750 pounds). Ties shall comply with
the weathering requirements of subsection B4 of this section. Ties shall
connect the ground anchor and the main structure frame. Ties shall not connect
to steel outrigger beams which fasten to and intersect the main structural
frame unless specifically stated in the manufacturer’s installation
instructions. Connection of cable ties to main frame members shall be five-
eighths inch (5/8") drop forged closed eye bolts affixed to the frame member in
an approved manner. Cable ends shall be secured with at least three (3) U-bolt
type cable clamps with the “U” portion of the clamps installed on the short
(dead) end of the cable to assure strength equal to that required by this
section.
   D.   Permit Required: Manufactured buildings may be installed, blocked, and
anchored only upon issuance of a permit by the building inspector. The permit
application shall include the location where the manufactured home is to be
placed and shall receive zoning approval prior to issuance. (1985 Code ch. 4 §
9-4; Ord. 340, 10-7-2019)
9-4-8: PARKING OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
Parking of motor vehicles at mobile home parks shall conform to parking and
traffic ordinances, and rules and regulations as provided for other residences
in the city. Off street parking spaces shall be required for each mobile home.
(1985 Code ch. 4 § 9-5; Ord. 340, 10-7-2019)
9-4-9: ACCESSORY OR SUPPORTING STRUCTURES:
A separate application must be made, and approval obtained for the building of
each accessory or supporting building or structure, including a garage; or for
alteration, enlargement, or change in any application previously approved; said
application shall be made in writing to the city clerk. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 9-6;
Ord. 340, 10-7-2019)
9-4-10: NONCOMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
Manufactured/Mobile/Modular Homes located in residential districts not
conforming to these regulations will be considered as not in compliance hereto
and the use of these facilities permitted as a nonconforming use until such
time as the mobile home is moved from its location or additions made thereto.
Future use of the lot or parcel for a nonconforming mobile home in a
residential area will not be permitted. (1985 Code ch. 4 § 9-8; Ord. 340, 10-7-
2019)
9-4-11: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Jay Code Officer
In addition, any peace officer or elected official may enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 340, 10-7-2019)
TITLE 10
PLANNING AND ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Commission Created; Appointment; Members
10-1-2: Terms Of Office
10-1-3: Quorum
10-1-4: Organization; Rules And Regulations
10-1-5: Duties; Compensation
10-1-6: Scope Of Authority
10-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT; MEMBERS:
   A.   Commission Created: There is hereby created within and for the city a
planning commission, which said commission shall consist of five (5) citizens
of the city as hereinafter provided. The members of said commission shall be
nominated and appointed solely with reference to their fitness and without
reference to party affiliation, and shall serve without compensation except as
hereinafter provided. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 1-1)
   B.   Appointment; Approval: The mayor shall appoint the members of the city
planning commission subject to approval and confirmation by the city council.
(1985 Code ch. 16 § 1-5)
   C.   Ex Officio Members: The vice mayor and the city building official shall
be ex officio members of the city planning commission, but shall receive no
compensation other than their affixed salary as said officials. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 1-3)
10-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
Members of the city planning commission shall hold office for a term of three
(3) years with the exception that in the first instance two (2) shall be
appointed to serve a term of one year, two (2) for a term of two (2) years, and
one appointed for a term of three (3) years; and appointments thereafter shall
be made for a term of three (3) years, except when a vacancy occurs, then the
appointment shall be made to fill the unexpired term. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 1-2)
10-1-3: QUORUM:
Three (3) members of the city planning commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business; provided, however, that no action shall be taken
and be binding upon the city planning commission unless concurred in by not
less than a majority of all members comprising the said city planning
commission. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 1-4)
10-1-4: ORGANIZATION; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The members of the city planning commission shall meet within two (2) weeks
after their appointment and confirmation and organize by electing from their
members a chairman, vice chairman, and secretary, and shall adopt, from time to
time, for approval by the city council, such bylaws, rules and regulations and
amendments thereto as may be necessary to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 1-6)
10-1-5: DUTIES; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Powers And Duties Generally: The city planning commission shall
prepare, from time to time, plans for the systematic development of the city as
a place of residence or for commerce. It shall have the power and authority to
employ engineers and attorneys, clerks, and a secretary, or other help deemed
necessary, subject to the approval of the city council.
   B.   Compensation: The salary and compensation of such employees shall be
fixed by the city council and shall be paid out of the city treasury as other
officers and employees. The necessary expenses incurred by said commission
shall be paid out of the city treasury as other legal expense of the city
government. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 1-7)
10-1-6: SCOPE OF AUTHORITY:
   A.   Consider And Investigate; Make Recommendations: The planning commission
may consider and investigate any subject matter tending to the development and
betterment of the city, and make recommendations as it may deem advisable
concerning the adoption thereof by the city council, and for any such purpose,
make, or cause to be made, surveys, maps, or plans. Before final action shall
be taken by the city council, or any department of the city government, on the
location and designs of any public building, statue, memorial, park, parkway,
boulevard, street and alley, playgrounds, public grounds, bridge, or the change
in location of any street or alley, or part thereof, such question shall be
submitted to the city planning commission for investigation and report.
   B.   Plans Submitted To Commission For Consideration: All plans, plats,
preplats of land or subdivisions laid out in lots or plats, and streets,
alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated to the public or
private use within the corporate limits of the city, shall first be submitted
to the city planning commission for its approval or rejection. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 1-8)
ARTICLE A. PURPOSE, JURISDICTION AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2A-1: Purpose And Authority
10-2A-2: Jurisdiction
10-2A-3: General Procedure
10-2A-4: Definitions
10-2A-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
In order to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of present
and future residents, and to bring about the coordinated and efficient
development of the city, the following regulations for the subdividing and
developing of land within its corporate limits are adopted by ordinance in
accordance with the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 41-101 et seq.,
and subsequent amendments thereto. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
10-2A-2: JURISDICTION:
This chapter shall apply to the following forms of subdividing and developing
of land within the corporate limits of the city:
   A.   The dividing of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots, sites, or
parcels, any part of which, when subdivided, shall contain less than ten (10)
acres in area; or
   B.   The redividing of land previously divided or platted into tracts, lots,
sites, or parcels of less than ten (10) acres in area; or
   C.   The dedicating, vacating, or reserving of any public or private
easement through any tract of land regardless of the area involved, including
those for use by public and private utility companies; or
   D.   The dedicating of any street or alley through any tract of land
regardless of the area involved. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-2)
10-2A-3: GENERAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Plat Approval: For all cases of subdividing within the scope of these
regulations, a plat of the land in question shall be drawn and submitted to the
planning commission and city council for their approval or disapproval as
provided herein.
   B.   Official Recording: No plat or description of land subdividing shall be
filed on the office of the county recorder of deeds until same shall have been
given preliminary and final approval by the planning commission and approval by
the city council as required by law. All final plats shall be filed within one
year of planning commission or city council approval, whichever is the later,
and shall void all approvals prior thereto.
   C.   Agenda: Each plat submitted for preliminary or final approval shall be
placed on the planning commission's agenda only after fulfilling the
appropriate requirements of these regulations. However, a plat not meeting all
the requirements may be submitted, provided the subdivider presents with the
plat a letter requesting the specific exception(s) and enumerating in detail
the reason(s) therefor.
   D.   Filing Fee: To defray partially the costs of notification, field and
special studies, there shall be paid to the city clerk, at the time of
submission of the preliminary plat, a fee in the following amount: Five dollars
($5.00) plus one dollar ($1.00) per lot for the first ten (10) lots, plus ten
cents ($0.10) for each additional lot. Where only a portion of an approved
preliminary plat is submitted for final approval, a final plat of the remaining
area may be submitted at any time within five (5) years of the preliminary
approval without payment of an additional filing fee by the subdivider.
   E.   Exemption: Plats containing three (3) lots or fewer and intended for
one single purpose unit may be exempted from the provisions of all or part of
this section upon written approval of the planning commission. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 2-4)
10-2A-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the terms and words in this section shall be
used as hereinafter defined:
ALLEY: A way from which a secondary means of access to abutting property is
obtained.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Jay, Oklahoma.
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT: A lot which runs through a block from street to street and
has frontage on two (2) or more streets.
FINAL PLAT: A map or chart of a land subdivision giving, in form suitable for
filing in the office of the county recorder of deeds, necessary affidavits,
dedications and acceptances, and containing a complete engineering description
(including references to filed markers) sufficient to locate on the ground all
streets, alleys, blocks, lots and other division of the subdivision.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The city planning commission of the city of Jay, Oklahoma.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A map or chart of a proposed land subdivision showing the
character and general details of the proposed development.
REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT: A corner lot of such size and shape that a building
erected on it might logically be designed to face on either adjoining street,
thus causing it to rear on the side line of an abutting lot.
STREET: A way from which the principal means of access to abutting property is
obtained.
STREET, MAJOR: A public street designated as a primary or secondary
thoroughfare on the major street plan as adopted by the city council or a
revision thereof.
STREET, MINOR: Any public street designated as a primary or secondary
thoroughfare on the major street plan, but not including alleys. Minor streets
shall be classified as follows:
Collector Street: A street collecting traffic from other streets and serving as
the most direct route to a major street. Any street shall be deemed a collector
street when it serves over fifty (50) dwelling units between intersections.
Cul-De-Sac: A local street having one closed end terminated by a turnaround.
Local Street: A street primarily providing access to and from abutting property
and serving only occasional through traffic.
SUBDIVIDING: The dividing or redividing of land into streets, lots, sites, or
parcels, or the providing or vacating of public and private easements whether
shown on a map or chart or described by metes and bounds.
WAY: Any street, avenue, parkway, highway, boulevard, road or alley reserved
and/or dedicated for public or private use chiefly by vehicular or pedestrian
traffic; its width shall be the shortest horizontal distance measured between
lines delineating the right of way. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-3)
ARTICLE B. PRELIMINARY APPROVAL
SECTION:
10-2B-1: Submission To Planning Commission
10-2B-2: Drafting; Contents
10-2B-3: Planning Commission Action
10-2B-1: SUBMISSION TO PLANNING COMMISSION:
The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat for presentation to the
planning commission. It shall conform to the minimum requirements of the
comprehensive plan for Jay, which shall have been previously ascertained by the
subdivider. It shall be submitted in duplicate directly to the office of the
city clerk not less than three (3) days before the next planning commission
meeting. Two (2) signed statements describing the proposed use of the land, the
proposed improvement(s) thereon, and the proposed restrictions on future
construction and development shall be submitted with the preliminary plat.
(1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-5)
10-2B-2: DRAFTING; CONTENTS:
The preliminary plat shall be drawn at a scale of not more than one inch equals
two hundred feet (1" = 200') and shall show:
   A.   The scale, north point, and date.
   B.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
   C.   The name and address of the owner of record, the subdivider and/or the
registered engineer preparing the plat.
   D.   A key map showing the location of the proposed subdivision referenced
to existing or proposed major streets and to government section lines, and
including the boundaries and number of acres of the drainage area of which the
proposed subdivision is a part.
   E.   The names, with location of intersecting boundary lines, of adjoining
subdivisions, and the location of the Jay city limits if falling within or
immediately adjoining the tract.
   F.   The land contours with vertical intervals not greater than two feet
(2') referenced to a United States geological survey or coast and geodetic
survey bench mark or monument.
   G.   The location of buildings, and the location of dedicated streets at the
point where they adjoin and/or are immediately adjacent; provided, that actual
measured distances shall not be required.
   H.   The length of the boundaries of the tract, measured to the nearest
foot, and the proposed location and width of streets, alleys, easements, and
setback lines and the approximate lot dimensions.
   I.   The locations, size and type of sanitary and storm sewers, water mains,
culverts, power and natural gas lines and other surface and subsurface
structures and pipelines existing within or immediately adjacent to the
proposed subdivision; and the location, layout, type, and approximate size of
the following structures and utilities proposed to serve the subdivision:
      1.   Water mains.
      2.   Sanitary sewer mains, submains and laterals.
      3.   Storm sewers, culverts, and drainage structures.
      4.   Street improvements.
   J.   The location of all ponds, watercourses, drainage channels and
subsurface drainage structures, and the proposed method of disposing of all
runoff from the proposed subdivision, and the location and size of all drainage
easements relating thereto, whether they are located within or outside of the
proposed plat. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-5)
10-2B-3: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   The planning commission shall approve conditionally, or disapprove the
plat within sixty (60) days of its presentation by the applicant. If the
preliminary plat be disapproved, the reason(s) for such action shall be stated
in writing, a copy of which, signed by the planning commission chairman, shall
be attached to one copy of the plat and transmitted to the applicant. Unless
stipulation for additional time is agreed to by the applicant, if no action be
taken by the planning commission at the end of sixty (60) days after
submission, the plat shall be deemed to have been approved conditioned upon
submission of final plat within one year.
   B.   The reason(s) for disapproval or other conditional approval shall refer
specifically to those parts of the comprehensive plan with which the plat does
not conform. On conditionally approving a plat, the planning commission may
require submission of a revised preliminary plat.
   C.   If the plat conforms to all of the standards, or after the applicant
and planning commission agree upon any revisions which shall be filed with the
planning commission on a revised copy, the applicant may proceed with the
staking of streets and roads and with the preparation of a final plat. (1985
Code ch. 16 § 2-5)
ARTICLE C. FINAL APPROVAL
SECTION:
10-2C-1: Submission To Planning Commission
10-2C-2: Drafting; Contents
10-2C-3: Planning Commission Action
10-2C-4: City Council Action
10-2C-5: Recording Of Plat
10-2C-1: SUBMISSION TO PLANNING COMMISSION:
A final plat, under top sheet designed for authentication and seal by the city,
county, and state officials as required, neatly drawn on tracing cloth and
three (3) dark line prints thereof, shall be submitted to the office of the
mayor of the city not less than five (5) days before the planning commission
meeting when it shall be considered for final approval. At the same time, there
shall be submitted three (3) sets of the proposed specifications for all
improvements and restrictions in final form. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-6)
10-2C-2: DRAFTING; CONTENTS:
   A.   The final plat shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100') from an accurate survey and on sheets whose dimensions are
twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") between border lines. On
the first sheet of every plat, there shall be a key map showing the location of
the subdivision referenced to government survey lines and major streets. If
more than two (2) sheets are required for the plat, the key map shall show the
number of the sheet for each area. A border of one-half inch (1/2") surrounding
the sheet shall be left blank at the top, bottom and right hand side, and a
margin of two inches (2") at the left side for binding purposes.
   B.   In addition to the map specifications for the preliminary plat, the
final plat shall show:
      1.   The location and description of all section corners and permanent
survey monuments in or near the tract, to at least one of which the subdivision
shall be referenced.
      2.   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof, and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees and minutes, as hereafter specified.
      3.   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided fully dimensioned by
length and bearings, and the location of boundary lines of adjoining lands,
with adjacent subdivisions identified by official name.
      4.   The lines of all proposed streets fully dimensioned by length and
bearings or angles.
      5.   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the length and/or direction
of an alley are not readily discernible from data given for lot and block
lines, the length and/or bearing shall be given.
      6.   The widths, and names where appropriate, of all proposed streets,
alleys, and easements which shall be properly located.
      7.   The lines of all proposed lots fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles, except that where a lot line meets a street line at right
angles, the bearing value may be omitted.
      8.   The outline of any property which is offered for dedication to
public use fully dimensioned by lengths and bearings, with the area marked
"public".
      9.   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision
and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, with area to be
excluded from platting marked "reserved" or "not a part".
      10.   The location of all building lines, setback lines, and easements
for public services or utilities with dimensions showing their location:
         a.   Utility Mains: Engineering plans for all water mains, sewerage
collector mains and manholes shall be clearly drawn to include point of
connection to existing city utilities.
         b.   Application And Fee: Application and required fee for the
construction of water and sewer systems shall accompany the final plat. Fee
shall be in the form of a cashier's check drawn to the order of the "Oklahoma
state department of health".
         c.   Submittal Of Application For State Permit: Application for state
permits shall be submitted for state health department approval only upon city
council approval of the final plat and the permit application.
      11.   The radii, arcs, points of tangency, points of intersection, and
central angles for all curvilinear streets and radii for all property returns.
      12.   The proper acknowledgments of owners and the consent by the
mortgagee to plat restrictions.
      13.   The following which shall be made and shown on the cloth tracing:
         a.   Owner's certificate and dedication, signed.
         b.   Engineer's certificate of survey, signed and his seal.
         c.   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated to
the public, signed.
         d.   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed in the office of the county recorder of deeds which directly
affect the land being subdivided.
         e.   Certificate of planning commission/city council approval.
         f.   Certificate of city council acceptance of ways, easements, and
public use dedications.
         g.   Treasurer's certificate.
      14.   A title which shall include:
         a.   Name of the subdivision(s).
         b.   Name of city, county and state.
         c.   Location and description of the subdivision referenced to
section, range, and township. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-6)
10-2C-3: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Time Limit For Action: The planning commission shall act upon the final
plat within forty five (45) days after it has been submitted for final
approval, and this approval shall be shown on the plat with the date of such
approval and over the signature of the commission chairman. Unless stipulation
for additional time is agreed to by the applicant and if no action be taken by
the commission at the end of forty five (45) days after submission, the plat
shall be deemed to have been approved. A certificate by the planning commission
as to date of submission of plat for final approval and failure of planning
commission to act thereon within such time shall be sufficient in lieu of
written endorsement of approval above named.
   B.   Disapproval: If the final plat be disapproved, grounds for this refusal
shall be stated in writing, a copy of which shall be transmitted with the
tracing and prints to the applicant. The reason(s) for disapproval shall refer
specifically to those parts of the official comprehensive plan with which the
plat does not comply. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-6)
10-2C-4: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
Before recording of the final plat, it shall be submitted to the city council
for its approval and acceptance of public ways and service and utility
easements, and of land dedicated to public use. This approval of the plat shall
be shown over the signature of the mayor and attested to by the city clerk or
his deputy. The disapproval of any plat or plan by the city council shall be
deemed a refusal of the proposed dedication shown thereon. Approval by the city
council is not to be construed as advance acceptance of installed utilities
which acceptance shall be effected only upon final acceptance inspection by
authorized officials. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-6)
10-2C-5: RECORDING OF PLAT:
After final approval of the plat and the affixing of all required signatures on
the original tracing, the subdivider shall provide the planning commission with
three (3) dark line prints thereof, and one contact reproducible cloth tracing,
said tracing to be filed with the city clerk. One dark line print shall be
retained in permanent file of the planning commission, one shall be sent to the
office of the city clerk, and one shall be sent to the office of the mayor. The
applicant shall file the original tracing, one dark line print on cloth, and
one contact reproducible cloth tracing or film with the county recorder of
deeds. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-6)
ARTICLE D. DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-2D-1: Conformance With Standards
10-2D-2: Acre Subdivision
10-2D-3: Flood Hazards And Topography
10-2D-4: Arrangement Of Streets
10-2D-5: Streets, Alleys And Easements
10-2D-6: Block Requirements
10-2D-7: Lot Requirements
10-2D-8: Building Lines
10-2D-9: Neighborhood Unit Development
10-2D-10: Maintenance And Supervision
10-2D-1: CONFORMANCE WITH STANDARDS:
All plats shall be prepared in conformance with the purpose and spirit of these
standards. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-7)
10-2D-2: ACRE SUBDIVISION:
Whenever the area is divided into lots containing one or more acres and there
are indications that such lots will eventually be resubdivided into small
building plots, consideration must be given to street and lot arrangement of
the original subdivision so that additional minor streets can be opened to
permit a logical arrangement of smaller lots. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-7)
10-2D-3: FLOOD HAZARDS AND TOPOGRAPHY:
All natural drainage courses into which other drainage courses empty shall be
left undisturbed or improved in a manner that will improve the hydraulics of
the channel. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-7)
10-2D-4: ARRANGEMENT OF STREETS:
The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provisions for the
continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining areas (or their
proper projection where adjoining land is not subdivided) insofar as they may
be deemed necessary by the planning commission for public requirements. The
width of such streets in a new subdivision shall not be less than the minimum
street widths established herein. The street and alley arrangement must also be
such as to cause no hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat
their own land and seek to provide for convenient access to it. Streets that
are obviously in alignment with others already existing and named shall bear
the names of the existing streets. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-7)
10-2D-5: STREETS, ALLEYS AND EASEMENTS:
Streets, alleys, and easements within the subdivision shall be arranged for the
most advantageous development of the tract and in harmony with existing or
potential development of adjoining tracts.
   A.   Street Widths: There shall be provided rights of way as stated
hereafter in accordance with the major street plan of the city:
      1.   Primary thoroughfares: Sixty feet (60');
      2.   Secondary thoroughfares: Sixty feet (60');
      3.   Collector streets: Fifty feet (50');
      4.   Local streets: Fifty feet (50').
   B.   Street Lengths And Deflections:
      1.   A cul-de-sac, court, or similar type street may be permitted where
size, location, or topography of the tract do not permit a normal street
pattern. A cul-de-sac should not be more than five hundred feet (500') in
length as measured from entrance to center of turnaround and, if more than one
hundred fifty feet (150') in length, shall be provided with a turnaround having
a minimum radius of fifty feet (50') at the property line, and not less than
forty feet (40') at the outside curb line.
      2.   Where any street deflects an angle of ten degrees (10°) or more, a
horizontal curve having a minimum radius of one hundred twenty feet (120') for
major streets and one hundred feet (100') for minor streets may be required by
the planning commission.
   C.   Alleys: Alleys shall not be required; however, when provided at the
rear of the business lots, alleys shall be at least thirty feet (30') in width.
Alleys, when provided in residential blocks, shall be not less than twenty feet
(20') in width. At the intersection of two (2) alleys, the corners of the
abutting property shall be provided with a property line return having a radius
of ten feet (10').
   D.   Easements: Where alleys are not provided, easements not less than ten
feet (10') wide shall be provided along each rear lot line, and along side lot
lines where necessary, for use by public and private utilities. Easements of
greater width may be required along or across lots where necessary, for the
extension of main storm and sanitary sewers and other utilities and where both
water and sewer lines are located in the same easements. Where necessary,
aerial easements may be required for use by surface utilities. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 2-7)
10-2D-6: BLOCK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No block shall be longer than one thousand three hundred feet (1,300')
between street intersections. In blocks over seven hundred feet (700') in
length, a dedicated right of way not less than ten feet (10') in width and a
paved crosswalk not less than five feet (5') in width may be required, to
provide pedestrian access between streets.
   B.   For division into residential lots, total depth of the block, street to
street, shall be not less than two hundred twenty feet (220') and twenty feet
(20') additional where alleys are platted in the block.
   C.   For division into business lots, block depth shall be adjusted to allow
for off street parking, as required in the zoning ordinance.
   D.   Proper access shall be provided for all lots abutting all platted
streets.
   E.   Where grade separation structures or similar traffic regulators are, or
may be, needed, the blocks shall be so arranged to provide adequately for such
structures or improvements. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-7)
10-2D-7: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All side lines of lots should be at right angles to straight street
lines, or radial to curved street lines. Double frontage lots should be
avoided.
   B.   For corner lots, but not including those in midblock siding on a
crosswalk right of way, a property return with a radius of twenty feet (20')
may be required; provided, however, if in the opinion of the planning
commission there is an existing or potential future need, a larger radius not
to exceed forty feet (40') may be required. On lots reserved for business use,
a chord may be substituted for the circular arc. Corner lots, including those
in midblock siding on a crosswalk right of way, and butt or key lots for
residential use should at least be ten feet (10') wider than interior lots.
   C.   The minimum lot width, area, and off street parking requirements of the
zoning ordinance shall be observed in the lot and block design. In no case
shall the lot area per family be less than six thousand (6,000) square feet,
and at the building line shall not be less than fifty feet (50').
   D.   The minimum lot width at the street line shall be not less than thirty
five feet (35'), and at the building line shall not be less than fifty feet
(50').
   E.   A minimum of sixty feet (60') width shall be provided on all corner
lots irrespective of whether they rear upon lots facing the side streets. (1985
Code ch. 16 § 2-7)
10-2D-8: BUILDING LINES:
Building lines shall be shown on all plats intended for residential use of any
character as follows:
   A.   In residential districts, a front yard setback line shall be provided
on every lot. The depth of such front yard setback line shall not be less than
twenty five feet (25').
   B.   On any corner lot to be used for residential purposes, the setback line
on the intersecting street shall be located not less than fifteen feet (15')
from the right of way line in case such lot is back to back with another corner
lot and twenty feet (20') in every other case. Restrictions requiring buildings
to be set back to such building lines shall be shown either on the plat or
shall be contained in a separate recorded instrument and referred to in the
plat. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-7)
10-2D-9: NEIGHBORHOOD UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
Whenever a subdivision is developed as a neighborhood unit, wherein adequate
park or playground area is provided, through traffic is adequately cared for
and the majority of the minor streets are of the cul-de-sac type, the planning
commission may vary the requirements of this section in order to allow the
subdivider more freedom in the arrangement of streets and lots, but at the same
time protect the convenience, health, safety, and welfare of the probable
future residents of the subdivision as well as the character of the surrounding
property and the general welfare of the entire community. In no case, however,
shall the lot area per family be less than six thousand (6,000) square feet for
detached single-family dwellings. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-7)
10-2D-10: MAINTENANCE AND SUPERVISION:
Where the subdivision contains sewers, sewage treatment plants, water supply
systems, park areas, street trees, or other physical facilities necessary or
desirable for the welfare of the area, or that are of common use or benefit
which are not or cannot be satisfactorily maintained by any existing public
agency, provision shall be made by trust agreement, made a part of deed
restrictions, acceptable to any agency having jurisdiction over the location
and improvements of such facilities, for the proper and continuous maintenance
and supervision of such facilities. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-7)
ARTICLE E. IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-2E-1: Compliance With Comprehensive Plan
10-2E-2: Required Improvements
10-2E-1: COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
All improvements shall be designed in accordance with all elements of the
comprehensive plan of the city. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-8)
10-2E-2: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
All improvements listed below shall be installed and shall be in accordance
with the designated procedures and requirements:
   A.   Plans And Bond:
      1.   Plans for the improvements herein required shall be prepared by a
qualified engineer, registered in the state of Oklahoma. Three (3) sets of
prints of the proposed plans and specifications for all improvements shall be
filed with the mayor at the time of submission of the final plat for approval.
One set of "as built" plans and specifications certified and signed by an
engineer registered in the state of Oklahoma shall be filed with the city clerk
prior to the acceptance by the city of any improvement installed by the
subdivider.
      2.   In lieu of completion of the improvements herein required, the city
council shall require the subdivider to file a surety bond with the city clerk
to secure to the city the actual construction of such improvements according to
specifications within a period of time not to exceed two (2) years from the
date of approval of the final plat. Such bond shall be in the amount of one
hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the improvements as determined
by the city council, and with surety and conditions satisfactory to the city
council; provided, however, that if all improvements are installed according to
the approved plans and specifications and accepted by the city prior to the
issuing of any building permit for construction within the subdivision, no
surety bond will be required.
   B.   Permanent Markers: Each block corner shall be marked with iron pipes or
pins not less than three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and twenty four inches
(24") long at least one inch (1") below finished grade; and each subdivision
corner shall be marked with a permanent concrete marker capped with a
noncorrosive metal plate, set not less than one inch (1") below the finished
grade, as shown in the appendix of these regulations on file in the office of
the city clerk.
   C.   Street Improvements:
      1.   Residential Street Improvements: The developer of any subdivision or
portion thereof designed to be used for residential purposes shall lay out,
grade, and otherwise improve all streets that are designated on the approved
plat or directly serve the subdivision in accordance with specifications of the
city.
      2.   Commercial And Industrial Street Improvements: The developer of any
subdivision or portion thereof designed to be used for commercial or industrial
purposes shall lay out, grade, and otherwise improve all streets that are
designated on the approved plat or directly serve the subdivision in accordance
with specifications for street construction for the city.
      3.   Major Streets Within Residential, Commercial Or Industrial
Subdivision: Whenever a subdivision contains a primary or secondary
thoroughfare that requires a street facility of a type that is more costly than
is required to serve the future occupants of the subdivision, the subdivider
shall be required to pay the portion of the cost that would equal the estimated
equivalent facility required to serve the subdivision, as determined by the
city council.
      4.   Intersections With State Or Federal Highways: The paving design of
the intersection of any new street with an existing state or federal highway
shall be in accordance with the standard specifications of the Oklahoma state
highway department. But in no case shall be less than the applicable
specification of the city.
   D.   Sidewalk Improvements: Sidewalks may be required along officially
designated major streets. Sidewalks may be required along any minor streets
where deemed essential for public convenience or safety by the city council.
All required sidewalks and crosswalks shall be paved and shall be constructed
in accordance with standards established by the city council. Construction
shall be under the supervision of the mayor, and shall be subject to approval.
   E.   Water Lines: The subdivider shall install water lines and fire
hydrants. Installation shall be in accordance with the specifications for water
line construction of the city, and in accordance with an issued permit by
Oklahoma state department of health. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-8)
ARTICLE F. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2F-1: Variations And Exceptions
10-2F-2: Administration And Amendment
10-2F-3: Time Of Approval Of Final Plat
10-2F-4: Violation; Penalty
10-2F-1: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements contained in these regulations would result in
substantial hardship or inequity, the planning commission may vary or modify,
except as otherwise indicated, such requirements of design, but not of
procedures or improvements, so that the subdivider may develop his property in
a reasonable manner, but so, at the same time, the public welfare and interests
of the city are protected and the general intent and spirit of these
regulations preserved. Such modification may be granted upon written request of
the subdivider, or his engineer, and stating the reason(s) for each
modification and may be waived by three-fourths (3/4) vote of the regular
membership of the planning commission. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-9)
10-2F-2: ADMINISTRATION AND AMENDMENT:
The city council may, from time to time, adopt, amend, and make public rules
and regulations for the administration of these regulations to the end that the
public be informed and that approval of plats be expedited. These regulations
may be enlarged or amended by the city council after public hearing, due notice
of which shall be given as required by law. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-10)
10-2F-3: TIME OF APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT:
The final plat of the proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the planning
commission and city council for final approval within one year of the date on
which the preliminary plan was approved. If not submitted for final approval
within such time, the preliminary plan shall be considered as having been
disapproved unless the planning commission agrees to an extension of time. The
final plat shall be filed in the office of the county recorder of deeds within
one year after approval by the city council and planning commission, whichever
is later, or if not filed within such time, said approval shall be considered
as having been voided. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 2-11)
10-2F-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   No building permit shall be issued for any new structure or change,
improvement, or alteration of any existing structure on any tract which does
not comply with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus cost for each offense. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (1985 Code
ch. 16 § 2-12)
ARTICLE G. TABLES RELATED TO SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2G-1: Tables On File
10-2G-1: TABLES ON FILE:
The following tables shall be on file in the office of the city clerk:
Table I, subdivision bond.
Table II, owner's certificate and dedication.
Table III, certificate of city clerk.
Table IV, acceptance of dedication by city council.
Table V, release of mortgage; county treasurer's certificate. (1985 Code ch. 16
tables; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DEFINITIONS; PURPOSE AND APPLICATION
SECTION:
10-3-1: Statute Authority; Short Title
10-3-2: Purpose
10-3-3: Nature And Application
10-3-4: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
10-3-5: Definitions
10-3-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY; SHORT TITLE:
This chapter, in pursuance of the authority granted by the legislature of the
state of Oklahoma in 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 43-101 through 43-109 and
44-101, 44-102, and 44-104 through 44-110, shall be known as the ZONING
ORDINANCE or ZONING CODE of the city, and may be cited as such. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 3-1)
10-3-2: PURPOSE:
The regulations contained herein are necessary to encourage the most
appropriate uses of land; to maintain and stabilize the value of property; to
reduce fire hazards and improve public safety and safeguard the public health;
to prevent undue concentration of population; and to create a comprehensive and
stable pattern of land uses upon which to plan for transportation, water
supply, sewerage, schools, parks, public utilities, and other facilities. This
shall be necessary for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, and general welfare. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 3-2)
10-3-3: NATURE AND APPLICATION:
   A.   These regulations classify and regulate the use of land, buildings, and
structures within the corporate limits of the city as hereinafter set forth, by
dividing the city into zones and regulating therein the use of the land and the
use and size of buildings as to height and number of stories, the coverage of
the land by buildings, the size of yards and open spaces, the location of
buildings, and the density of population.
   B.   Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, no land shall be used and no
building, structure, or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed, moved,
altered, enlarged, or rebuilt which is designed, arranged, or intended to be
used or maintained for all purposes or in any manner except in conformity with
the regulations contained herein. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 3-3)
10-3-4: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   The boundaries of the zoning districts are hereby established as shown
on the maps entitled "Zoning District Maps Of The City Of Jay, Delaware County,
Oklahoma", dated August 4, 1997, which are a part of these regulations and
which are on file in the office of the county clerk. Said maps and all
notations, references, data, and other information shown thereon shall be and
are hereby adopted and made a part of these regulations.
   B.   Unless otherwise indicated on the zoning maps, the district boundaries
are lot lines, the centerlines of streets or alleys or specified distances
therefrom, or property lines, as they existed at the time of the enactment of
these regulations.
   C.   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the zoning districts
or when the street or property existing on the ground is at variance with that
shown on the zoning district maps, the board of adjustment, upon written
application or upon its own motion, shall determine the location of such
boundaries. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 3-5)
10-3-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise stipulated or required, the following definitions shall be
used in the interpretation and construction of these regulations, and words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular shall include the
plural, and the plural the singular; the word "building" shall mean as well the
word "structure"; the word "used" shall include: "arranged", "designed",
"constructed", "altered", "converted", "rented", "leased", or "intended to be
used", and the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory.
ACCESSORY OR AUXILIARY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure customarily
incidental, appropriate, and subordinate to the principal use of a building or
to the principal use of land and which is located upon the same lot therewith.
ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE: Any material or structure of any character
whatsoever, placed for outdoor advertising purposes. The term placed shall
include making visible in any manner whatsoever. The area of the advertising
structure shall be determined as the area of the largest cross section of the
structure. Neither directional, warning, or other signs posted by public
officials in the course of their public duties shall be construed as
advertising signs for the purpose of these regulations.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming,
dairying, pasturage, horticulture, animal and poultry husbandry, and the
necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing the produce;
provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory use shall be
secondary to that of normal agricultural activities; and provided further, that
the above uses shall not include the commercial feeding of garbage to swine or
other animals, stockyards, or commercial feedlots for cattle.
ALLEY: A minor right of way, dedicated to public use, not more than thirty feet
(30') wide affording a secondary means of access to abutting property and not
intended for general traffic circulation.
AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area, other than a street, used for
the display, sales, or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition where no repair work is done.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: General repairs, rebuilding, or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles, or trailers; collision services including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair, overall painting or paint shop; vehicle
steam cleaning.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental replacement of parts and motor service to
passenger cars and trucks not exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION OR FILLING STATION: Any area used for retail sale of
gasoline or oil fuels, or automobile accessories, and incidental services
including facilities for lubricating, and washing and cleaning, but not
including painting, major repair or the sale of butane or propane fuels.
AUTOMOBILE WASH OR AUTOMOTIVE CAR WASH: A building or structure or chain
conveyors, blowers, steam cleaners, and other mechanical device used primarily
for the purpose of washing motor vehicles.
BASEMENT: A story wholly or partly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a basement shall be counted as a story when more than one-half (1/
2) of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
BLOCK: In describing the boundaries of a district, the word "block" refers to
the legal description. In all other cases, the word "block" refers to the
property abutting on one side of the street between two (2) intersecting
streets or a street and a railroad right of way or watercourse.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The board of adjustment for the city of Jay, Oklahoma,
also referred to as board.
BOARDING HOUSE AND ROOMING HOUSE: Where meals or lodging are provided for
persons other than the family or their relation, excluding facilities for
transient persons such as hotels, motels, inns, supervised living or
residential care facilities, and other such facilities.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, or
property. When such a structure is divided into separate parts by one or more
unpierced walls extending from the ground up, each part is deemed a separate
building, except as regards minimum side yard requirements as herein provided.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: The subordinate building, the use of which is customarily
incidental to that of a principal building on the same lot.
BUILDING LINE: A line established beyond which no part of a building shall
project, except as otherwise provided by these regulations.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building or buildings in which the principal use of the
building site is conducted. In any residential district, any dwelling shall be
deemed to be the principal building on the building site.
BULK LIMITATION (FLOOR AREA RATIO): The number of square feet of "floor area"
as defined herein which is permitted for each square foot of lot area.
BULLETIN BOARD: Any board or sign erected for announcement purposes.
CELLAR: That portion of a building between floor and ceiling partly
underground, but having half or more than half of its clear height below the
adjoining finished grade.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes.
CHILDCARE CENTER: Any place, home, or institution which receives five (5) or
more children under the age of sixteen (16) years, for care apart from their
natural parents, legal guardians, or custodians, and received for regular
periods of time for compensation; provided, however, this definition shall not
include public and private schools, organized, operated, or approved under the
laws of the state; custody of children fixed by a court, children related by
blood or marriage within the third degree to the custodial person, or to
churches or other religious or public institutions caring for children within
the institutional buildings while their parents or legal guardians are
attending services or meetings or classes and other church activities.
CITY: The incorporated city of Jay, Oklahoma.
CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR: The building inspector of the city of Jay, Oklahoma.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer or engineering firm designated by the city of
Jay, Oklahoma.
CLUB: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying
regular dues, and organized for some common purpose, but not including a group
organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a
commercial enterprise.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive plan of the city of Jay, Oklahoma, county
of Delaware, state of Oklahoma.
COUNCIL: The city council of Jay, Oklahoma; and includes the use of the terms
council, city commission, and board of commissioners.
COVERAGE: The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon, including the
area covered by all the hanging roofs.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively as a
residence or sleeping place of one or more persons, but not including a tent,
cabin, trailer or trailer coach, boarding or rooming house, hotel or motel.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for or used by
three (3) or more families or housekeeping units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for or used exclusively for
residence purposes by one family or housekeeping unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for or used exclusively by two (2)
families or housekeeping units.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms, designed for or used by one family.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by
public utility or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
transformation and regulation stations, mains, drains, sewer pipes, conduits,
cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, street and area
lighting facilities, hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories
thereof; reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate services by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public
health, safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
EXCEPTION: A use which is not permitted by right in a particular zoning
district because of its potentially adverse effect but which may be permitted
upon review of the board of adjustment where specifically authorized by these
regulations. Use exceptions must meet the substantive and procedural
requirements of these regulations and may be granted subject to specific
controls or other limitations imposed by the board of adjustment on a case by
case basis in order to protect adjoining property and the general welfare of
the public.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit as a single
housekeeping unit; provided, that unless all members are related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, no family shall contain more than five (5) persons
exclusive of domestic servants. The term "family" does not include individuals
or groups occupying a single dwelling unit for on site institutional education,
training, supervision, medical care, or nursing care nor shall such term
include foster homes, motels, hotels, fraternity or sorority houses or boarding
houses.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or buildings measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the centerlines of walls separating two (2) buildings.
FRONTAGE: The width of a lot measured at right angles to the depth on the front
or street side of the lot.
GARAGE APARTMENT: A dwelling for one family erected as a part of a private
garage.
GARAGE, PARKING: Any building or portion thereof used for the storage of four
(4) or more automobiles in which any servicing may be provided as incidental to
the primary use for storage purposes, and where repair facilities are not
provided.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal
building used or intended for use by the occupants of the premises for storage
of passenger vehicles or trailers.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: The structure or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
used for the storage, sale, hire, care, repairing, or refinishing of any
vehicles.
GARAGE, REPAIR: A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair, or equipping of automobiles.
HEIGHT: The vertical measurement of any building or structure on any parcel of
land measured from the average elevation of the lot or parcel to the uppermost
point of the structure or building.
HEIGHT LIMIT: The limit of height as imposed in these regulations for any
structure or building or permitted use within the zoning district.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a
dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which
is conducted entirely within the main or accessory building; provided, that no
trading and merchandising or advertising sign other than one nonilluminated
nameplate, not more than two (2) square feet in area attached to the main or
accessory building, and no mechanical equipment is used except such as is
customary for purely domestic or household purposes.
HOTEL: A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six (6)
or more sleeping rooms occupied or intended or designed to be occupied as the
more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without
meals for compensation but not including trailer court or camp, hospital,
asylum, orphanage, or building where persons are housed under a restraint.
INDUSTRY: Storage, repair, manufacture, preparation, or treatment of any
article, substance, or any commodity for commercial sale.
INSTITUTIONAL USES: Those uses organized, established, used, or intended to be
used for the promotion of a public, religious, educational, charitable,
cultural, social, philanthropic activities normally operated on nonprofit
basis.
JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD: A place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, bailed, packed, disassembled, or handled, including
all wrecking yards, house wrecking, and structural steel materials and
equipment; but including such places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and
establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used furniture and
household equipment, used cars in operable condition, or salvage material
incidental to manufacturing operations.
KENNEL: Any structure or premises on which five (5) or more dogs over four (4)
months of age are kept.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth on the same lot with the building
or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
LOT: A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal building or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings, or
utilized for a principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such
open spaces as required by these regulations, and having access on a public
street.
LOT, CORNER: A lot which has at least two (2) adjacent sides abutting on a
street; provided, that the interior angle at the intersection of such two (2)
sides is less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage of two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT, WEDGE SHAPED: A lot situated so that the front is either wider or narrower
than the rear of the lot.
LOTS OF RECORD: Herein designated as a separate and distinct parcel on a
legally recorded plat or a legally recorded deed filed on the records of
Delaware County, state of Oklahoma.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent base or undercarriage and designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to required utility systems. A
manufactured home shall retain its character as such without regard to whether
the structure has had its axles removed or has been placed on a permanent
foundation. Recreational vehicles are not included in this definition.
MANUFACTURED HOME STAND: That part of a manufactured home park, subdivision, or
residential lot which has been reserved for the placement of manufactured
housing.
MAXIMUM COVERAGE: The maximum amount of land that may be covered by buildings
on any lot.
MEAN LOT ELEVATION: The average elevation of a lot.
MEDICAL FACILITIES:
Convalescent, Rest Or Nursing Home: A health facility where persons are housed
and furnished with meals and continuing nursing care for compensation.
Dental Clinic Or Medical Clinic: A health facility where persons are housed and
furnished with meals and continuing nursing care for compensation.
Dental Office Or Medical Office: Same as Dental Clinic Or Medical Clinic.
Hospital: An institution providing health services primarily for human
inpatient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training
facilities, central services facilities, and staff offices which are an
integral part of the facilities.
Public Health Center: A facility primarily utilized by a health unit for
providing public health services including related facilities, laboratories,
clinics, and administrative offices.
Sanatorium: An institution providing health facilities for in-patient medical
treatment or recuperation making use of natural therapeutic agents.
MOBILE HOME: A manufactured home or a manufactured home dwelling.
NONCONFORMING USE: A parcel of land lawfully occupied by a use that does not
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
OFF STREET PARKING: The provision of space reserved exclusively for the parking
of motor vehicles entirely off the public street and lying wholly within the
property boundaries of the parcel of land affected.
OPEN SPACE: Area included in any side, rear, or front yard, or any other
unoccupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky except for
the ordinary projection of cornices and eaves or porches.
PARCEL: A "lot" as defined herein.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area for the same uses as private garage.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street or other public way,
used for the parking of automobiles and available to the public whether for
fee, free, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: A permanently surfaced area at least nine feet (9') in width by
twenty feet (20') in length either within a structure or in the open, exclusive
of driveways or access drives for the parking of motor vehicles.
PERMITTED USES: The use of a structure or of a tract of land allowed by the use
regulations of this title.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A trailer, travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper
or camper shell, motor home, tent trailer, boat, houseboat or similar vehicle
or unit less than forty feet (40') in length and less than ten feet (10') in
width. Camper shells attached to a pickup truck are not considered to be
recreational vehicles.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House And Rooming House.
SIGN: Any structure or part thereof, or any device attached to, painted on, or
represented on a building or other structure, upon which is displayed or
included any lettering, model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, decoration,
device, or representation used as, or which is in the nature of, an
announcement, direction, advertisement, or other attention directing device. A
sign shall not include the similar structure or device located within a
building except for illuminated signs within show windows. The sign includes
any billboard, but does not include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any
nation or association of nations, or any state, city, or other political,
charitable, educational, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious, or like
campaign, drive, movement, or event.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: A sign designed to give forth any artificial light, or
designed to reflect light from one or more sources, natural or artificial.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign erected on the face or outside wall of a building
which projects out at any angle therefrom.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: Signs of a temporary nature used to advertise the premises for
sale, rent, or lease.
STORY: That portion of a building, included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
STORY, FIRST: The lowest story or the ground story of any building, the floor
of which is not more than twelve inches (12") below the average contact ground
level at the exterior walls of the building; except that any basement or cellar
used for residence purposes shall be deemed the first story; provided, that a
basement or cellar used purely for recreational purposes shall not be deemed
the first story.
STORY, MEZZANINE: A story which covers one-third (1/3) or less of the story
directly underneath it.
STREET: A public right of way more than twenty feet (20') in width which
provides a public means of access to abutting property and used primarily for
vehicular circulation. The term street shall include avenue, drive, circle,
road, parkway, boulevard, land, place, highway, thoroughfare, and any other
similar term.
STREET, ARTERIAL: As described and shown on the comprehensive plan.
STREET, COLLECTOR: As described and shown on the comprehensive plan.
STREET, INTERSECTING: A street which adjoins another street at an angle whether
or not it crosses the other.
STREET, MINOR: Any street not designated as an arterial or collector street and
intended to serve or provide access exclusively to the properties abutting
thereto.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the structural members of a building such
as walls, columns, beams, or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent location
on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location on the
ground, including buildings, fences, and signs, but not including sidewalks,
driveways, and similar improved areas.
THOROUGHFARE, EXPRESSWAY: A primary thoroughfare with divided roadways, partial
or full control of access in general with grade separations at intersections. A
"freeway" shall mean an expressway with full control of access and meeting the
standards of the bureau of public roads, U.S. department of transportation.
THOROUGHFARE PLAN: The part of the comprehensive plan referring to
transportation development goals, principles, and standards and also includes
use of the words "major street plan" and "trafficway plan".
THOROUGHFARE, PRIMARY OR SECONDARY: An officially designated federal or state
numbered highway or county or other road or street designated as a primary
thoroughfare on the official thoroughfare or comprehensive plan for the city of
Jay, Oklahoma, or county or other road or street designated as a secondary
thoroughfare on said plan, respectively.
TOURIST COURT/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: An area containing one and/or more
buildings and five (5) or more sites for locating recreational vehicles or
travel trailers and designed or intended to be used as temporary facilities for
one or more transient persons.
TRAFFIC SIGNALING DEVICE: A sign, device or mechanical contrivance, used for
the control of motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building or structure is arranged,
designed, or intended, or for which either land, building, or structure is, or
may be, occupied or maintained.
UTILITY SERVICE INSTALLATION: Any structure or installation by utility company
deemed to be necessary for the safe or efficient operation of that utility.
VARIANCE: A relaxation of any requirement or restriction of these regulations,
granted by the board of adjustment, whereby reason of exceptional narrowness,
shallowness, shape, topography, or other extraordinary or exceptional
characteristic, situation or condition of a particular property, the literal
enforcement of the provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary
hardship.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of a lot from side lot line
to side lot line abutting on a street.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured from side lot
line to side lot line and at opposite end to the front lot line.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from front building line to the rear building line
abutting the side lot line.
ZONING COMMISSION: In these regulations, whenever the term zoning commission,
or commission, is used, reference is made to the zoning commission as
established pursuant to state statutes.
ZONING MAP: The adopted zoning map or maps of the city of Jay together with all
amendments. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 3-6)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED, GENERAL DESCRIPTION
SECTION:
10-4-1: Zoning Districts Established
10-4-2: General Description Of Districts
10-4-3: Planning/Zoning Matrix Table
10-4-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The city is hereby divided into zones as shown on the zoning map dated August
4, 1997, filed with the city clerk. The map, as amended, and all explanatory
materials thereon is hereby made a part of this title. Zoning districts shall
be designated as follows:
Agricultural districts:
   R1A agricultural district
   RE-1 residential estates district
Residential districts:
   R-1 single-family residential district
   R-2 two-family residential district
   R-3 multi-family residential district
   RMH residential manufactured home district
Commercial districts:
   C-1 convenience commercial district
   C-2 general commercial district
   C-3 highway commercial and commercial recreation district
Industrial districts:
   I-1 light industrial district
   I-2 heavy industrial district
Specific district regulations are set forth in chapters 5 and 6 of this title.
(1985 Code ch. 16 § 3-4)
10-4-2: GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICTS:
   A.   R1A Agricultural District: The R1A agricultural district is established
for several purposes:
      1.   To provide for the continued use of land for predominantly
agricultural purposes.
      2.   To preserve underdeveloped areas until they can feasibly be
developed at urban standards and with adequate public safeguards of health,
safety, etc.
      3.   To restrict development in areas subject to severe flooding until
such time as it can be shown that these areas are no longer subject to
flooding.
   B.   RE-1 Residential Estates District: The RE-1 residential estates
district is established to provide for large lot residential development within
the incorporated limits of the city. This district may be arranged to provide
for housing in areas where public utilities are not available.
   C.   R-1 Single-Family Residential District: The R-1 single- family district
is established as a district in which the use of the land is for single-family
dwellings, except as noted. It is the purpose and intent of this district to
promote the development of and the continued use of the land for single- family
dwellings and to prohibit commercial and industrial use or any other use which
would substantially interfere with the development or continuation of single-
family dwellings in this district. The intent is to further discourage any use
in this district which would generate traffic or create congestion on
neighborhood streets other than the normal traffic which serves the residents
of the area. This district further encourages only those uses which, because of
character or size, would not create additional requirements and costs for
public services which are in excess of such requirements and costs if the
district was not developed solely for single-family dwellings.
   D.   R-2 Two-Family Residential District: This residential district is
intended to provide for both low and moderate population density. The density
and yard space requirements are so arranged as to provide general compatibility
with the uses found in the R-1 single-family district. Therefore, this
classification may reasonably be placed in positions which are adjacent to
single-family areas or may be used as a transitional zone. The district shall
have the same restrictions concerning nonresidential uses as apply in the R-
1 single-family district.
   E.   R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District: The R-3 district is designed
to provide areas for medium and high population density. R-3 districts will
consist mainly of: 1) areas containing multi-family dwellings; 2) areas which
contain single-family and two-family dwellings, are centrally located, and are
appropriate when ultimate multi-family development appears desirable. In
addition to the general purposes applying to all residence districts, the
regulations for the R-3 districts are designed to encourage the provision of
multiple-family accommodations.
   F.   RMH Residential Manufactured Home District: The RMH district is
designed for manufactured home parks, and for open areas where manufactured
home development appears desirable. The district is intended to permit and
encourage the development of properly planned and improved manufactured home
parks and manufactured home subdivisions in appropriate locations to ensure a
suitable residential environment.
   G.   C-1 Convenience Commercial District: This commercial district is
intended for a unified grouping, in one or more buildings, of retail shops and
stores and personal services that provide for the regular needs and are for the
convenience of the people residing in the adjacent residential neighborhood. It
is intended that the convenience center be developed as a unit with adequate
off street parking space for customers and employees, and with appropriate
landscaping and screening.
   H.   C-2 General Commercial District: This commercial district is designed
for the conduct of personal and business services and the general retail trade
of the community. It is designed to accommodate a wide variety of commercial
uses in the central business district or areas of mixed business enterprises.
It will not normally be applied in the case of new commercial areas.
   I.   C-3 Highway Commercial And Commercial Recreation District: This
commercial district is established as a district in which the principal use of
land is for establishments offering accommodations, supplies or services to
motorists, and for certain specialized uses such as retail outlets, extensive
commercial amusements and service establishments which may serve the entire
community but do not and should not locate in the central business district or
the convenience district.
   J.   I-1 Light Industrial District: The purpose of the I-1 industrial
district is to provide a location for industries. The intent is to preserve
this land especially for industry in locations with access to major streets, as
well as locations generally accessible to railroad transportation. Because of
possible objectionable influences that may be created in this district, it is
necessary to locate I-1 carefully in relation to other districts and provide
such features as buffers or setback strips between this district and other
zoning districts.
   K.   I-2 Heavy Industrial District: The purpose of this district is to
accommodate a wide range of manufacturing, warehousing, wholesale, and other
industrial activities of heavy intensities. The I-2 district regulations are
intended to permit such activities, subject to limitations that will protect
nearby residential and commercial districts and will ensure that permitted uses
are compatible with one another. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 4-1)
10-4-3: PLANNING/ZONING MATRIX TABLE:
IMAGES
   PLANNING/ZONING MATRIX
"+" = This zoning district is in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
"0" = This zoning district may be determined to be in accordance with the
comprehensive plan upon review by the planning commission.
"-" = This zoning district is not in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
 R1A RE-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 RMH C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2
                 R1A RE-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 RMH C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2
Low intensity    +   +    +   +   0   0   +   -   0   -   -
Residential      +   +    +   +   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Commercial       +   -    -   0   0   0   +   0   0   -   -
Medium intensity +   -    0   0   +   +   +   +   +   -   -
Residential      +   -    +   +   +   +   -   -   -   -   -
Commercial       +   -    -   0   +   -   +   +   +   0   -
Industrial       +   -    -   -   -   -   0   0   +   +   +
 
(1985 Code ch. 16 matrix)
CHAPTER 5
USES PERMITTED IN DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Rules Of Interpretation
10-5-2: Table Of Permitted Uses
10-5-1: RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   The uses permitted in the various districts are shown in the table in
section
10-5-2 of this chapter. The uses permitted in a more restricted district may be
permitted in a less restricted district; provided, however, that the yard space
and other requirements of the more restricted district shall apply. For
purposes of applying this rule, each district shown in said table in section
10-5-2 of this chapter shall be considered to be more restricted than the one
(s) listed to the right.
   B.   It is intended that these regulations be interpreted as permitting a
dwelling unit to be located on the same lot with or within a structure used or
intended to be used primarily for nonresidential purposes only upon individual
review and approval by the Jay planning and zoning commission. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 5-1)
10-5-2: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES:
Agricultural districts = R1A - RE-1
Residential district = R-1 - R-2 - R-3 - RMH
Commercial districts = C-1 - C-2 - C-3
Industrial districts = I-1 - I-2
(R) = Uses permitted only upon grant of exception by the board of adjustment.
Permitted Uses Special Conditions Parking Spaces Districts
Permitted Uses                                                           Special    Parking   Districts
                                                                         Conditions Spaces
                                                                                              R1A, C-1,
Advertising signs or structures (off premises)                           10-7-8     None      C-2, C-3,
                                                                                              I-1, I-2
                                                                                              R1A, RE-
                                                                                              1 R-1, R-
Advertising signs or structures (on premises)                            10-7-8     None      2, R-3,
                                                                                              RMH, C-1,
                                                                                              C-2, C-3,
                                                                                              I-1, I-2
Agriculture: farming, dairying, horticulture, animal, poultry,           None       None      R1A
husbandry, excluding the feeding of offal or garbage
                                                                                              R1A, RE-
Agriculture: gardening not commercial                                    None       None      1, R-1,
                                                                                              R-2, R-3,
                                                                                              RMH
                                                                                    1/150 sq.
Ambulance service, office or garage                                      None       ft. gross C-2, C-3
                                                                                    floor
                                                                                    area
Amusement enterprises                                                    None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
                                                                                    1/300 sq. C-1(R),
Animal hospital                                                          10-7-11B   ft.       C-2(R),
                                                                                              C-3
Antique shop                                                             None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Appliance store (radio, TV, etc.)                                        None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Artist supplies and hobby shop                                           None       1/100 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Automobile sales and service                                             None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Automobile service station                                               10-7-11E   1/300 sq. C-1(R),
                                                                                    ft.       C-2, C-3
Automobile wash                                                          None       1/500 sq. C-1(R),
                                                                                    ft.       C-2, C-3
Automobile wrecking and junk yard                                        10-7-11F   1/300 sq. I-2
                                                                                    ft.
Bait shop                                                                None       1/300 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Bait shop (accessory to other)                                           None       1/300 sq. C-1(R),
                                                                                    ft.       C-2, C-3
Bakery shop                                                              None       1/200 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Banks, saving institution                                                None       1/200 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Barber, beauty shops                                                     10-7-2     1/200 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. + C-1, C-2,
Blacksmiths and welding shops                                            None       1 dock/   C-3
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Boat sales                                                               None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Boat storage                                                             None       1/300 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Bookstore                                                                None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
                                                                                    1/
                                                                                    3
Bottling works                                                           None       employees I-1, I-2
                                                                                    + 1 dock/
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Bowling alley                                                            None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. + C-2, C-3,
Building material sales                                                  None       1 berth/  I-1, I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. +
Bulk fuel sales                                                          10-7-9     1 dock/   I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Bus terminal                                                             None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Camera shop                                                              None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Candy store                                                              None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
                                                                                    1/
                                                                                    3
Canning, preserving factory                                                        employees I-2
                                                                                    + 1 dock/
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
                                                                                    1/        C-1, C-2,
Catering establishment                                                   None       2         C-3
                                                                                    employees
Cemetery                                                                 10-7-11C   None      R1A
                                                                                              R-1(R),
                                                                                              R-2(R),
Childcare center/day nursery (minimum lot size 10,000 sq. ft. +          10-7-11H   1/150 sq. R-3(R),
principal access on major street)                                                   ft.       RMH(R),
                                                                                              C-1(R),
                                                                                              C-2, C-3
                                                                                              R1A, RE-
                                                                                              1, R-1
                                                                                              (R), R-2
Church or other worship places                                           10-7-11M   1/4 seats (R), R-3
                                                                                              (R), RMH
                                                                                              (R), C-1,
                                                                                              C-2, C-3
Clothing, wearing apparel store                                          None       1/200 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Cold storage plants                                                      10-7-9     1/150 sq. I-1, I-2
                                                                                    ft.
Commercial radio/television antenna towers and equipment                 10-7-9     1/1,000   I-1, I-2
                                                                                    1/
                                                                                    3
Compounding, processing and blending chemical products, not including    10-7-9     employees I-2
explosives                                                                          + 1 dock/
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
                                                                                    1/6 beds
                                                                                    + 1/each
                                                                                    2         R-2, R-3,
Convalescent, rest, or nursing homes                                     None       employees C-1, C-3
                                                                                    + 1
                                                                                    reserve
                                                                                    doctor
Convenience store, with sale of gasoline                                 None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Convenience store, without sale of gasoline                              None       1/150 sq. C-1(R),
                                                                                    ft.       C-2, C-3
Dairy products store                                                               1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Dance hall                                                               None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Delicatessen                                                             None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Dental lab, supply house                                                 None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2
                                                                                    ft.
Department store                                                         None       1/150 sq. C-1(R),
                                                                                    ft.       C-2, C-3
Drive-in theater/restaurant                                              7-12-11I   1/150 sq. C-2, C-3,
                                                                                    ft.       I-1(R)
Drugstore                                                                None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
                                                                                    1/        R-1, R-2,
Dwelling, duplex (two-family)                                            None       dwelling  R-3
                                                                                    unit
                                                                                              RE-1(R),
                                                                                    See       R-1(R),
Dwelling, manufactured home                                              None       section   R-2(R),
                                                                                    10-7-6    R-3(R),
                                                                                              RMH
Dwelling, multi-family (no garage apartments on same lot as two-family   None       1.5/unit  R-3, RMH
dwellings)
                                                                                    1/
Dwelling, rooming, boarding houses and dormitories                       None       2 guests  R-3, RMH
                                                                                    .75/
                                                                                    occupants
                                                                                              R1A, RE-
Dwelling, single-family                                                  None       1         1, R-1,
                                                                                              R-2, R-3,
                                                                                              RMH
Emergency and protective shelters, homeless centers, residential         10-7-12    ½ per    R1, R2,
treatment centers, and transitional living centers                                  resident  R3, RE-1
Feed store                                                               None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Florist shop                                                             None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Food store                                                               None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Funeral parlor                                                           None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Furniture repair and upholstery                                          None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3,
                                                                                    ft.       I-1
Furniture store                                                          None       1/300 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Garden stores                                                            None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Gift shop                                                                None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Golf course, miniature or practice range                                 None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Golf course or country club (for recreation, commercial activity         None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
accessory. Excludes driving range, pitch and putt, and miniature)                   ft.
Hardware store                                                           None       1/250 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Heating and plumbing sales and services                                  None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Home appliance repair shop                                                         1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
                                                                                              R1A(R),
                                                                                              RE-1(R),
Home occupations                                                         10-7-2     None      R-1(R),
                                                                                              R-2(R),
                                                                                              R-3(R)
                                                                                              RMH(R)
                                                                                    1/4 beds
                                                                                    + 1
                                                                                    doctor on
                                                                                    staff, 1/
Hospital                                                                 None       3         C-2, C-3
                                                                                    employees
                                                                                    + 1
                                                                                    emergency
                                                                                    vehicle
                                                                                    space
Hospital, small animal                                                   10-7-11B   1/150 sq. C-3, I-1,
                                                                                    ft.       I-2
Hotel, motel                                                             None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
                                                                                    1/
                                                                                    3
Ice cream production and distribution                                    10-7-9     employees I-1, I-2
                                                                                    + 1 dock/
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Ice plant, frozen food locker                                            None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3,
                                                                                    ft.       I-1
Interior decorating store                                                None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Kennel                                                                             1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Key shop                                                                 None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Laundry and dry cleaning                                                 None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Laundry, self-service                                                    None       1/200 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Leather good shop                                                        None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Liquor store                                                             None       1/150 sq. C-1(R),
                                                                                    ft.       C-2, C-3
Lodges/service institutions (minimum lot size 1 acre, frontage on major  None       1/150 sq. C-1(R),
street)                                                                             ft.       C-2, C-3
                                                                                    1/
                                                                                    2
Machine shops, tool and dye shops, metal products manufacture, excluding 10-7-9     employees I-1, I-2
use of automatic screw machines, drop forges, or riveting machines                  + 1 dock/
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. + C-2, C-3,
Machinery rental, sales and service, new and used                        10-7-9     1 dock/   I-1, I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
                                                                                    1
                                                                                    employee  C-2, I-1,
Mail order house                                                         10-7-9     + 1 dock/ I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Manufactured home park or subdivision                                    10-7-6     2/stand   RMH
                                                                                    1
Manufacturing and assembling textiles, foods and other products                     employee  I-1(R),
excluding raw material processing                                        10-7-9     + 1 dock/ I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
                                                                                    1
Manufacturing, fabricating, assembling, repairing, storing, cleaning,               employee
servicing, or testing. Excluding use of automatic screw machines, drop   10-7-9     + 1 dock/ I-2
forges, or rivet machines                                                           25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Meat market                                                                        1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
                                                                                    6/doctors
Medical facility, clinic or office                                       None       + 1/      C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    2         C-3
                                                                                    employees
                                                                                    1
Medical marijuana commercial grower as defined at OKLA. STAT. Tit. 63 §            employee  R1A, I-1,
427.2(33)                                                                None       + dock/   I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Milk bottling and distribution                                           10-7-9     1/44 sq.  I-2
                                                                                    ft.
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. +
Monument stonecutting                                                    10-7-9     1 dock/   I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. +
Motor freight terminal                                                   10-7-9     1 dock/   I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Music, radio, television shop and repair                                 None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Nightclub                                                                None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Novelty shop                                                             None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Office, general and administrative                                       10-7A      1/300 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3, I-1
                                                                                              R1A(R),
                                                                                              RE-1(R),
                                                                                              R-1(R),
                                                                                              R-2(R),
                                                                                              R-3(R),
Outdoor storage (accessory use)                                          10-7-11N   None      RMH(R),
                                                                                              C-1(R),
                                                                                              C-2(R),
                                                                                              C-3(R),
                                                                                              I-1(R),
                                                                                              I-2(R)
                                                                                              R1A(R),
                                                                                              RE-1(R),
                                                                                              R-1(R),
                                                                                              R-2(R),
                                                                                    As        R-3(R),
Parking lot                                                              10-7-3     required  RMH(R),
                                                                                    for use   C-1(R),
                                                                                              C-2(R),
                                                                                              C-3(R),
                                                                                              I-1(R),
                                                                                              I-2(R)
                                                                                              R1A, RE-
                                                                                              1, R-1,
Parks, playgrounds, forest preserves operated not for profit             None       None      R-2, R-3,
                                                                                              RMH, C-1,
                                                                                              C-2, C-3
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. +
Pattern shop                                                             10-7-9     1 dock/   I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Pawnshop                                                                 None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Pet store                                                                None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Pharmacy                                                                 None       1/250 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
                                                                                              R1A, RE-1
                                                                                              (R), R-1
Plant nursery, retail excluded                                           None       None      (R), R-2
                                                                                              (R), R-3
                                                                                              (R), RMH
                                                                                              (R), C-3
Police and fire stations                                                 None       None      R1A, C-1,
                                                                                              C-2, C-3
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. + C-2, I-1,
Printing and binding plant                                               10-7-9     1 berth/  I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Printing shop                                                            None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. +
Processing, meat and vegetable products                                  10-7-9     1 berth/  I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
                                                                                              R1A, RE-1
                                                                                              (R), R-1
Public building, or those used in the public interest, including art                          (R), R-2
galleries, post office, libraries, museums, stadiums, auditoriums,       10-7-11I   1/200     (R), R-3
arenas, armories                                                                              (R), RMH
                                                                                              (R), C-1,
                                                                                              C-2, C-3
Public garage or parking                                                 10-7-3     1/250 sq. C-2, C-3,
                                                                                    ft.       I-1
Public health center                                                     None                 
                                                                                              R1A, RE-1
                                                                                              (R), R-1
                                                                                              (R), R-2
Public utility and service uses (provided arterial or collector street   10-7-11K   1/400 sq. (R), R-3
from frontage available)                                                            ft.       (R), RMH
                                                                                              (R), C-1,
                                                                                              C-2, C-3,
                                                                                              I-1, I-2
                                                                                    1/
Railroad yards and switching areas, including lodging facilities         10-7-9     3         I-2
                                                                                    employees
Recreation center, community                                             10-7A      1/50 sq.  C-2
                                                                                    ft.
Recreation center, private                                               None       1/50 sq.  C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. + C-2, C-3,
Research laboratories                                                    10-7-9     1 dock/   I-1, I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Restaurants, no service in autos                                         None       1/100 sq. C-1(R),
                                                                                    ft.       C-2, C-3
Restaurants, service in autos                                            None       1/50 sq.  C-1(R),
                                                                                    ft.       C-2, C-3
Roller skating rink                                                      None       1/50 sq.  C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
                                                                                    1/6 beds
                                                                                    + 1/staff
Sanatorium                                                               None       + 1/      C-2, C-3
                                                                                    2
                                                                                    employees
                                                                                    1
                                                                                    employee
                                                                                    + 1/      R1A, RE-
Schools, public and private elementary, mid high, junior high, senior    None       classroom 1, R-1,
high                                                                                1/50 sq.  R-2, R-3,
                                                                                    ft. +     RMH
                                                                                    assembly
                                                                                    area
Shoe repair                                                              None       1/200 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Sign painting                                                            10-7-9     1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
                                                                                    1/
                                                                                    2
Soldering and welding                                                    10-7-9     employees I-1(R)
                                                                                    + 1 dock/
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Sporting goods store                                                     None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. + I-1(R),
Spray painting and mixing                                                10-7-9     1 dock/   I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Stockbroker                                                              None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3
                                                                                    ft.
Studio, professional (art, craft, dance, photography, etc.)              None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Tackle shop                                                              None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Tailor shop                                                              None       1/200 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Tavern                                                                   None       1/100 sq. C-1(R),
                                                                                    ft.       C-2, C-3
                                                                                              RE-1(R),
                                                                                              R-1(R),
                                                                                              R-2(R),
Temporary building, construction phase only                              None       None      R-3(R),
                                                                                              RMH(R),
                                                                                              C-1, C-2,
                                                                                              C-3, I-1,
                                                                                              I-2
                                                                                              R1A, RE-1
                                                                                              (R), R-1
                                                                                              (R), R-2
Temporary bulletin board, sign                                           10-7-8     None      (R), R-3
                                                                                              (R), RMH
                                                                                              (R), C-1,
                                                                                              C-2, C-3,
                                                                                              I-1, I-2
Theater                                                                  10-7-11I   1/4 seats C-2, C-3
Toy store                                                                None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Travel trailer park and sales                                            10-7-5,    1/150 sq. RMH, C-3
                                                                         10-7-6     ft.
Utility service installation                                             10-7-11K   1/400 sq. C-2, C-3,
                                                                                    ft.       I-1, I-2
Variety store                                                            None       1/150 sq. C-1, C-2,
                                                                                    ft.       C-3
Veterinarian clinic                                                      10-7-11A   1/200 sq. C-3, I-2
                                                                                    ft.
                                                                                    1/1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft. + C-2, C-3,
Warehouse and storage                                                    10-7-9     berth/    I-1, I-2
                                                                                    25,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
                                                                                    1/        R1A, RE-
                                                                                    3         1, R-1,
                                                                                    employees R-2, R-3,
Water filtration plant                                                   10-7-9     + 1       RMH, C-1,
                                                                                    berth/    C-2, C-3,
                                                                                    25,000    I-1, I-2
                                                                                    sq. ft.
Wholesale distributing center                                            None       1/150 sq. C-2, C-3,
                                                                                    ft.       I-1, I-2
 
Notes: None of the listed uses shall be permitted in the "FD" zone as shown on
the zoning map, except as provided in section
10-7-10 of this title.
(1985 Code ch. 16 § 5-1; amd. Ord. 355, 12-7-2020; Ord. 381, 11-6-2023)
CHAPTER 6
DISTRICT LOT AND YARD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Table Of Lot And Yard Requirements
10-6-1: TABLE OF LOT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
No lot or yard shall be established in any district that does not meet the
minimum requirements set forth in the following table. No building or structure
shall be erected or enlarged to exceed these regulations, except as elsewhere
provided in these regulations.
                  Lot      Lot        Setbacks (D)
Zoning    Lot     Width At Coverage
Districts Area    Front    Maximum    Front Adjoining Adjoining Exterior Rear Height
          Minimum Building Percentage (B)
                  Line (A)
                     Lot      Lot        Setbacks (D)
Zoning       Lot     Width At Coverage
Districts    Area    Front    Maximum    Front (B) Adjoining Adjoining Exterior Rear Height
             Minimum Building Percentage
                     Line (A)
                              5%
R1A          5 acres 150'     including  50'       25'       25'       25'      50'  35'
agricultural                  accessory
                              buildings
RE-
1            1 acre  100'     20%        35'       15'       25'       25'      35'  35'
residential
estates
                                                                                20'
R-1 single-  6,000   60'      30%        25'       5'(C)     5'(C)     15'(F)   main 35'
family       sq. ft.                                                            10'
                                                                                main
R-2 two-     6,000                                                              20'
family       sq. ft.                               5'(C) 5'  5'(C) 5'  15'(F)   main 35'
single-      8,000   50' 80'  30% 35%    25' 25'   (C)       (C)       15'(F)   10'  15'
family       sq. ft.                                                            main
duplexes
             6,000
             sq. ft.
             + 1,200                     25'
R-3 multi-   sq.     70'      50%        including 5'(C)     5'(C)     15'(F)   20'  35'
family       ft./                        double
             unit                        frontage
             all
             over 2
                                                   The       The
C-                                                 greater   greater
1            12,000  100'     50%        50'       of 10' or of 10' or 20'      20'  35'
convenience  sq. ft.                               1'/1'     1'/1'
commercial                                         height    height
                                                   (E)       (E)
C-2 general  None    None     None       None      20'       None      20'      None None
commercial
C-3 highway
commercial   10,000
and          sq. ft. 100'     70%        25'       20'       None      30'      20'  45'
commercial
recreation
I-1 light    10,000                                          1'/1'
industrial   sq. ft. 100'     40%        35'       30'       height    30'      30'  45'
                                                             (E)
I-2 heavy    15,000                                          1'/1'
industrial   sq. ft. 100'     50%        35'       35'       height    30'      30'  45'
                                                             (E)
 
RMH manufactured housing. See regulations in chapter 7 of this title.
Notes:
 
(A)   For any wedge shaped lot, the frontage required shall be measured at the
front building line.
(B)   Front yard setbacks shall be measured from the street right of way or
easement line.
(C)   For buildings of more than one story, the minimum width of the side yard
shall be not less than ten feet (10'). On a lot where the principal use is a
nonresidential building, there shall be a side yard of not less than one-half
(1/2) the height of the building, but in no case less than fifteen feet (15').
(D)   If in any given block, one side of a street is occupied by structures
fifty percent (50%) of which do not comply with the front yard setback
requirements, then new construction may conform to the average setback of the
existing structures.
(E)   The setback requirement of "1'/1' height" shall mean the height of the
wall nearest the pertinent lot line, measured from the floor elevation to the
top plate of the wall.
(F)   The exterior side yard setback for lots which side up to streets with
right of way wider than sixty feet (60') shall be ten feet (10').
(1985 Code ch. 16 § 6-1)
 CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL CONDITIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Special Conditions Described
10-7-2: Home Occupations
10-7-3: Off Street Parking Requirements
10-7-4: Modification Or Waiver Of Requirements
10-7-5: Storage And Parking Of Recreational And Commercial Vehicles
10-7-6: Manufactured Home Park Or Subdivision
10-7-7: Sewer Service
10-7-8: Signs And Billboards
10-7-9: Industrial District Standards
10-7-10: Flood District
10-7-11: Miscellaneous Uses And Regulations
10-7-12: Emergency And Protective Shelters, Homeless Centers, Residential
Treatment Centers And Transitional Living Centers Spacing
10-7-1: SPECIAL CONDITIONS DESCRIBED:
Sections
10-7-2 through
10-7-11 of this chapter describe the special conditions under which certain
uses are permitted in a zoning district when reference is made to one or more
of said sections in the "special conditions" column in the table of permitted
uses in section
10-5-2 of this title. Where special conditions are widely applicable, reference
should be made to subsequent sections. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-1)
10-7-2: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
Home occupations (defined in section
10-3-5 of this title), in those districts where permitted, are subject to all
of the following conditions:
   A.   In any dwelling unit, all home occupations, collectively, shall not
occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of one floor
of said dwelling unit, nor more than two hundred (200) square feet of gross
floor area, but these limitations shall not apply to foster family care.
   B.   A home occupation shall not require internal or external alterations or
involve construction features or the use of mechanical equipment not customary
in dwellings.
   C.   The entrance to the space devoted to a home occupation shall be from
within the dwelling.
   D.   There shall not be displayed or created outside the building or
displayed by means of windows or openings in the structure, any external
evidence of the operation of the occupation, except, for each streetfront of
the zoning lot on which the building is located, one unanimated, nonilluminated
accessory identification sign may be placed flat against a wall or door or
displayed in a window.
   E.   Power shall be limited to electric motors, with a total limitation of
three (3) horsepower per dwelling unit.
   F.   The home occupation shall be conducted solely by resident occupants of
the dwelling unit in which the occupation is conducted and shall not have any
employees who do not reside in said dwelling unit.
   G.   To permit a beauty shop, one operator chair, a petition shall be
presented to the planning commission representing the approval of seventy five
percent (75%) of the property owners within two hundred feet (200') with
mandatory approval of those abutting the property. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-2)
10-7-3: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: In all zoning districts, in connection with every
industrial, commercial, institutional, recreational, residential, or any other
use, there shall be provided, at the time any building or structure is erected
or enlarged or increased in capacity, or any other use is established, off
street parking spaces for automobiles in accordance with the requirements in
the "parking spaces required" column in the table of permitted uses in section
10-5-2 of this title.
   B.   Required Open Space: Off street parking space may be a part of the
required open space associated with the permitted use and shall not be reduced
or encroached upon in any manner.
   C.   Location: The off street parking lot shall be located within two
hundred feet (200'), exclusive of street and alley widths, of the principal use
and shall have direct access to a street or alley.
   D.   Joint Parking Facilities: Whenever two (2) or more uses are located
together in a common building, shopping center, or other integrated building
complex, the parking requirements may be complied with by providing a permanent
common parking facility, cooperatively established and operated, which contains
the requisite number of spaces for each use. The total number of spaces
provided shall not be less than the sum of the individual requirements.
   E.   Size Of Off Street Parking Space: The size of a parking space for one
vehicle shall consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than
nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20') plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
   F.   Amount Of Off Street Parking And Loading Required: Off street parking
and loading facilities shall be provided in all districts in accordance with
section
10-5-2 of this title, and as listed below:
      1.   Commercial establishments not otherwise classified: One parking
space for each one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space used for
retail trade in the building and including all areas used by the public.
      2.   Industrial establishments: One off street parking space for each one
thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area or one off street parking
space for each three (3) employees, whichever is greater, and one loading or
unloading berth for each twenty five thousand (25,000) square feet or fraction
thereof of gross floor area.
   G.   Paved Surface Required: All parking spaces shall be paved with a sealed
surface pavement, and maintained in a manner such that no dust will result from
the continued use.
   H.   Off Street Parking Lots In Residential Districts: Whenever off street
parking lots for more than six (6) vehicles are to be located within or
adjacent to a residential district, the following provisions shall apply:
      1.   No parking shall be permitted within a front yard setback line
whenever the parking lot is located in a residential district or immediately
abuts the front yard of a residential unit. In all other cases, a minimum five
foot (5') setback shall be required.
      2.   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be confined to and shall
not exceed twenty five feet (25') in width, exclusive of curb returns.
      3.   All of the lot used for parking and driveway purposes shall be paved
with a sealed surface pavement or maintained in such a manner that no dust will
be produced by continued use.
      4.   Whenever lighting is provided, it shall be arranged so that all
light is deflected from adjoining residential uses.
      5.   No sign of any kind shall be erected except information signs used
to guide traffic and to state the conditions and terms of the use of the lots.
No nonintermittent white lighting of signs shall be permitted. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 7-3)
10-7-4: MODIFICATION OR WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS:
The board of adjustment may authorize, on appeal, a modification, reduction, or
waiver of the foregoing requirements only if it should find that, in the
particular case appealed, the peculiar nature of the residential, business,
trade, industrial, or other use, or the exceptional shape or size of the
property or other exceptional situation or condition not generally applicable
to other lots in the same district, must justify such action. (1985 Code ch. 16
§ 7-4)
10-7-5: STORAGE AND PARKING OF RECREATIONAL AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
Recreational and commercial vehicles, including trailers of all types, shall
not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or on any lot in any
residential district except in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   No more than one (1) commercial vehicle, which exceeds one and one-half
(11/2) tons' rated capacity, shall be permitted on the premises, and in no case
shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling explosives, gasoline, or liquefied
petroleum products be permitted on the premises.
   B.   No more than one (1) camping trailer, travel trailer, or recreation
vehicle, and no more than one (1) flatbed or hauling trailer shall be permitted
on the premises; and further provided, that said trailer shall not be parked or
stored for more than one (1) week unless it is located behind the front yard
building line. A recreational vehicle, camping, or travel trailer shall not be
occupied, either temporarily or permanently, while it is parked or stored in
any area within the incorporated limits except in a tourist court authorized
under this zoning ordinance.
   C.   Weeds, trash and debris, as defined in title 4, chapter 3, shall not be
allowed to accumulate around or upon the trailers. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-5;
amd. Ord. 391, 3-3-2025)
10-7-6: MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Park Requirements: Upon compliance with provisions set forth herein, a
manufactured home park will be allowed within the RMH residential manufactured
home district.
      1.   Submission Of Detailed Site Plan: The applicant, upon making
application for a zoning clearance permit, must submit a detailed site plan
locating all mobile home stands, screening or fencing, and plans and
specifications for the proposed park in a form suitable for making the
determination required herein.
      2.   Contents Of Site Plan: The proposed site shall be a minimum of two
(2) acres in size and shall contain no more than fifteen (15) mobile home
stands per acre. The proposed site shall have a minimum frontage of two hundred
feet (200') on a street designated as either an arterial street or collector
street in the comprehensive plan. All access or egress by automobile will be by
such streets. The proposed site shall be a minimum of two hundred feet (200')
in depth.
      3.   Few Transient Stands Allowed: It shall be the intention of the
proposed plan for the mobile home park to accommodate primarily permanent
occupants with no more than ten percent (10%) of the mobile home stands devoted
to purely transient purposes. These purely transient stands are to be located
in one area of the park so they will in no way interfere with the permanent
residents.
      4.   Yards: The proposed site shall have a front yard of not less than
forty feet (40') from the corner or line of any mobile home stand to the street
boundary of the park. The site shall have side and rear yards of ten feet (10')
from any solid fencing, screen planting, or wall of six feet (6') in height.
      5.   Screening Or Buffering: The proposed site shall be screened or
buffered on all sides with a solid wall or fence six feet (6') in height or a
screen planting which will attain at least six feet (6') in height.
      6.   Off Street Parking: The proposed site shall provide one off street
parking space for each mobile home stand, plus one additional off street
parking space for each four (4) mobile home stands.
      7.   Connection For Utilities: The proposed site shall provide a
connection for each mobile home stand to all public utilities considered
necessary for the health, safety, and general welfare of the public.
      8.   Utilities Required: Municipal or other state health department
approved water system capable of supplying fire hydrants installed in
accordance with specifications of the Oklahoma inspection bureau, and the
American Insurance Association; public sewer system or other disposal system
which has been approved for requested number of units by the state health
department. All mobile homes must be connected to the sanitary sewer system
within seventy two (72) hours of arrival in the park. An individual electric
service outlet shall be provided for each unit.
      9.   Wheels And Foundation: The wheels or other transporting devices of
any mobile home located in a mobile home park for more than seventy two (72)
hours may be removed. Any mobile home located in a mobile home park for more
than seventy two (72) hours shall be securely anchored to the ground in the
manner provided in subsection
9-4-5B of this code. Park operators shall require tenants to skirt units so as
to enclose the underneath area.
      10.   Concrete Slab: Each space shall be provided with a concrete slab of
sufficient size to support wheels and front parking jack of the mobile home
unit parked on the space.
      11.   Interior Streets: The following shall be minimum dimensions for:
         a.   One-way without parking: Twelve feet (12').
         b.   One-way with parking on one side: Twenty one feet (21').
         c.   Two-way without parking: Twenty two feet (22').
         d.   Two-way with parking on one side: Thirty feet (30').
   B.   Location Of Manufactured Homes: Location of a manufactured home in any
zoning district for residential dwelling purposes shall be prohibited, except
as follows:
      1.   Manufactured homes may be placed for dwelling purposes in a
manufactured home park or subdivision zoned RMH as provided by these
regulations.
      2.   Individual manufactured homes may be permitted for dwelling purposes
to occupy a zoning lot in RE-1, R-1, R-2 or R-3 residential districts upon
approval of the board of adjustment, and in accordance with the provisions of
title 9, chapter 4 of this code and pursuant to the procedures governing
special use exceptions established in chapter 10, article A of this title.
      3.   Manufactured homes may be permitted in other zoning districts for
nonresidential purposes only upon approval of the board of adjustment, pursuant
to the procedures established in chapter 10, article A of this title. (1985
Code ch. 16 § 7-6)
10-7-7: SEWER SERVICE:
No structure or use in any district shall be erected or commenced which does
not have a connection to the public sewer system, unless and until the county
health officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal system
can be installed and operated effectively. As a basis for making this decision,
the health officer may require such precaution tests as he deems to be
necessary, and no such private sewer facility shall be placed in an area which
is subject to flooding. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the
landowners. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-7)
10-7-8: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
   A.   Signs Allowed: No signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards, or other
similar structures shall be permitted in the residential districts, except as
follows:
      1.   Temporary signs not to exceed the duration of six (6) months to
advertise the premises for sale, rent or lease, except original sale.
      2.   One bulletin board not exceeding fifty (50) square feet may be
erected by each church.
      3.   Official public notices may be erected on affected property.
      4.   One unilluminated nameplate not exceeding two (2) square feet in
area, and not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or
occupants or name and address of the premises.
   B.   On Premises Signs: The following provisions shall govern on premises
signs which advertise services or merchandise offered on the zoning lot on
which the sign is located. All signs in the C-1 district shall be erected upon
private property and shall not encroach upon any public street or walk except
as approved by the board of adjustment, and they shall not overhang at a height
of less than nine feet (9') and shall not have a maximum projection greater
than seventy two inches (72").
      1.   Any projecting sign in the C-1 district shall not exceed fifty (50)
square feet in size, nor shall it exceed the height of the building by more
than five feet (5').
      2.   Any projecting sign in the C-2 and C-3 districts shall not exceed
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor shall it exceed the height of the
building by more than ten feet (10').
   C.   Off Premises Signs: The following provisions shall govern off premises
signs which advertise services or merchandise not offered on the zoning lot on
which the sign is located.
      1.   No sign or sign structure shall be permitted which faces the front,
side or rear of any lot in any R-1 or R-2 district within one hundred feet
(100') of such lot line or which faces the entrance to any public park, public
school, public library, or similar public institution within one hundred feet
(100') thereof.
      2.   Permits for off premises signs allowed on review in R1A districts
shall be for a period of one year. Such permits may be reviewed by the planning
commission, upon annual application by the owner of such sign. Such signs shall
not acquire status as nonconforming uses, and removal may be required at any
anniversary date of the issuance of the initial permit.
   D.   Incandescent Lighting: No source of incandescent lighting used for
illuminating signs shall be directly visible from any street or highway or from
any residence, hotel or from any room used for sleeping purposes.
   E.   Red, Green Or Amber Illumination: The use of red, green, or amber
illumination in connection with any sign shall not be permitted within one
hundred feet (100') of any controlled intersection. Any use of red, green, or
amber illumination in connection with any sign must be so located that it in no
way creates a confusion with any traffic signal or may be interpreted by any
motorist as a traffic signaling device. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-8)
10-7-9: INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT STANDARDS:
   A.   I-1 District: Any use constructed, established, altered, or enlarged in
the I-1 light industrial district after the effective date hereof shall be so
operated as to comply with the following standards:
      1.   Any building used for residential purposes shall comply with
restrictions set down in R-2.
      2.   No noise from any operation conducted on the premises, other than
that emanating from vehicular traffic, either continuous or intermittent, shall
be detectable at any boundary line of the I-1 district.
      3.   No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke, gas, odorous or particulate
matter shall be emitted that is detectable beyond the lot lines of the zoning
lot on which the use is located.
      4.   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines of the zoning
lot on which the use is located.
      5.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to
avoid casting direct light upon property located in any residence district.
      6.   The manufacture of flammable materials which produce explosive
vapors or gases is prohibited.
      7.   Any operation that produces intense glare or heat shall be performed
within a completely enclosed building, and exposed sources of light shall be
screened so as not to be detectable beyond the lot lines.
   B.   I-2 District: Any use constructed, established, altered, or enlarged in
the I-2 heavy industrial district after the effective date hereof shall be so
operated as to comply with the following standards. No use already established
on the effective date hereof shall be so altered or modified as to conflict
with, or further conflict with, the applicable standards established
hereinafter for the I-2 heavy industrial district.
      1.   Any building used for residential purposes shall comply with the
restrictions set forth in R-2.
      2.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to
avoid casting direct light upon property located in any residence district.
      3.   All manufacturing, fabricating, assembling, disassembling,
repairing, storing, cleaning, servicing, and testing of goods, wares, and
merchandise shall be carried on in such a manner as not to be injurious or
offensive by reason of the emission or creation of noise, vibration, smoke,
dust, or other particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, odorous, glare, or
heat, fire, or explosive hazards.
      4.   No activities involving storage, utilization, or manufacture of
materials or products which decompose by detonation shall be permitted.
      5.   Permitted uses in the I-2 heavy industrial district shall include
manufacturing, fabricating, assembling, repairing, storing, and cleaning,
servicing, or testing any of the following materials, goods, or merchandise:
Apparel.
Beverages (nonalcoholic), processing and bottling.
Boys' and children's vehicles.
Building materials specialties.
Clothing.
Compounding and packaging of chemicals.
Cosmetics and toiletries.
Dairy products.
Drugs and pharmaceuticals.
Electrical and acoustic products and components.
Food products (except fish, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast).
Furniture.
Glass products.
Ice, dry and natural.
Jewelry.
Medical laboratory supplies, equipment, and specialties.
Metal products and utensils.
Musical instruments.
Optical goods.
Paper products, including boxes and containers.
Radio, phonograph recorder and television sets and parts.
Textiles.
Trailers and carts.
Wood products, including wooden boxes and containers. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-9)
10-7-10: FLOOD DISTRICT:
   A.   Shown On Zoning Map: The flood district is shown on the zoning map. The
line indicates the limits of the regulatory flood. The exact configuration of
this area is based on the best available information. It is recognized that the
area may change as new information becomes available.
   B.   Supplemental Or Overlay District: The flood district is a supplemental
zoning district (sometimes called an "overlay district") in that it is an
additional zoning district applied to flood prone properties. All properties
within the flood district will have a nonsupplemental zoning classification
applied to them.
   C.   Application For Use Permit: The authorization of land uses must be
reviewed by the planning commission on the basis of individual applications.
Applications for use permits within the flood district must include
documentation that:
      1.   The proposed use will not be subject to flood damage caused by the
regulatory flood.
      2.   The proposed use will not create a measurable increase in flood
heights or flood flows upstream or downstream of the proposed development.
      3.   The above documentation shall be submitted to the planning
commission and certified by an engineer registered for practice in the state of
Oklahoma with concurrence of the engineer serving the city. (1985 Code ch. 16 §
7-11)
10-7-11: MISCELLANEOUS USES AND REGULATIONS:
Subsections A through K of this section set forth special provisions that apply
to certain miscellaneous uses in certain zoning districts.
   A.   Animal Services: Animal hospital, pound, or shelter; commercial kennel
for cats or dogs; livestock sales or feeding facilities; riding academy; public
stable; veterinarian's office with animals on the premises; shall be located no
nearer than two hundred feet (200') to an R-1, R-2 or R-3 district, and no
nearer to a zoning lot line than one hundred feet (100'). Proponents of such
uses shall show that adequate measures will be taken to prevent odor, dust,
noise, or drainage from becoming a nuisance to uses on other properties. No
incineration of animal refuse shall be permitted.
   B.   Animal Hospital, Small Animal Treatment: The planning commission may
approve the location of restricted small animal hospitals in the C-1 or C-
2 districts, provided the following conditions are met:
      1.   These facilities shall not be permitted within two hundred feet
(200') of residential districts.
      2.   Plans and specifications for proposed facilities shall detail
provisions for soundproofing, avoidance of odors, and satisfactory sanitary
services. Plans shall be submitted to the planning commission for review.
      3.   Such facilities shall be restricted to treatment of common household
pets.
      4.   Animals shall be kept on the premises only for purposes of medical
treatment to the exclusion of boarding.
   C.   Cemetery, Columbarium, Crematory, Mausoleum: Cemetery, columbarium,
crematory, or mausoleum shall have its principal entrance or entrances on a
major thoroughfare, with ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic
congestion and shall provide a wall at least six feet (6') high or an evergreen
hedge at least six feet (6') high and three feet (3') thick, along all property
lines except those adjacent to a street.
   D.   Earthmoving And Excavation: Earthmoving and excavation; depositing of
construction materials on the ground shall be subject to regulations set forth
in subsection G of this section.
   E.   Flammable Liquids And Gases: The storage of flammable liquids and gases
shall comply with the code and standards of the National Fire Protection
Association, as such code and standards may, from time to time, be revised.
   F.   Junk, Salvage, Auto Wrecking Yards: Junkyard, including salvage and
auto wrecking yards shall be permitted; provided, that all exterior storage and
processing areas are screened by solid walls or fences of such height and
location as to prevent visibility of stored materials or of materials in
process from any point eight feet (8') above the ground on any thoroughfare or
in any residential, commercial, or I-1 district, provided such point is not
more than three hundred feet (300') distant from the nearest part of the fence.
   G.   Mining, Quarrying: Mining, including extraction of clay, gravel, or
sand; quarrying of rock or stone; earthmoving and excavation; depositing of
construction material, clay, earth, gravel, minerals, rock, sand, or stone, on
the ground shall not be construed to be a permitted use in any district, except
the I-1 or I-2 districts, except for the following defined extractions and
deposits:
      1.   Excavations for the foundation or basement of any building or for a
swimming pool for which a building permit has been issued, or deposits on the
earth of any building or construction materials to be used in a structure for
which a building permit has been issued.
      2.   Grading of any parcel of land for a permitted use where no bank is
left standing and exposed of more than ten feet (10') in vertical height, or
when less than one thousand (1,000) cubic yards of earth is removed from the
premises.
      3.   Grading in a subdivision which has been approved by the city in
accordance with the Jay subdivision regulations and any amendments thereto.
      4.   Any extractive operation existing and operating as such on the
effective date hereof; such operation shall conform with the provisions of
these regulations within one year of the adoption of these regulations.
   H.   Nursery School, Daycare Center: Nursery school, daycare center for more
than five (5) children, or private kindergarten shall be on site of at least
ten thousand (10,000) square feet and shall maintain a solid wall or fence at
least six feet (6') high between any play area and any other property in a
residential district.
   I.   Public Assemblies: Place of public assembly, major, including arena,
auditorium, coliseum, stadium; or theater with seating capacity of one thousand
(1,000) or over, and drive-in theaters shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Have ingress and egress from a major thoroughfare or from a
collector street not more than three hundred feet (300') distant (by shortest
street route) from a major thoroughfare.
      2.   Have ingress and egress so designated as to minimize traffic
congestion and hazards.
A drive-in theater shall be located not less than two hundred feet (200') from
any residential district, and no projection screen thereof shall be located as
to be visible from any major thoroughfare within one thousand feet (1,000')
thereof.
   J.   Swimming Pools:
      1.   Any swimming pool in any district will:
         a.   Be located at least ten feet (10') from the nearest property
line, unless a greater separation is required elsewhere in these regulations.
         b.   Be so walled or fenced as to prevent uncontrolled access by
children from the street or any adjacent property.
         c.   Be screened by a masonry wall or solid fence at least six feet
(6') high facing the property line of any property in a residential district,
unless the pool is more than thirty feet (30') distant from such line.
         d.   Require the issuance of a building permit.
      2.   No swimming pool shall be permitted in any residential district
unless such pool:
         a.   Is owned and operated by a public agency or a residential group
from within the area in which the pool is located;
         b.   Is accessory to a residential use; or
         c.   Is accessory to a nonresidential use which is permitted in such
district.
Except for a pool owned and operated by a public agency or a residential group
from within the area in which the pool is to be operated, no pool shall be
permitted in any residential district unless the pool is intended for the use
of, and is used by, only the occupants of the principal use of the property on
which it is located.
   K.   Public Utility And Service Uses: Public utility and service uses,
including electrical substations, gas regulator stations, gas, telegraph,
telephone, and water transmission metering and distribution equipment and
structures, water reservoirs, or pumping stations, and other similar facilities
shall be set back, landscaped and/or screened from the side, rear, or front
property line in such a manner as to be attractive and not offensive to
abutting properties. This regulation shall not apply to electric, telegraph, or
telephone transmission and distribution lines and poles which shall not be
limited with respect to height or location and for which no permit shall be
required under these regulations.
   L.   Fire Zone: The boundaries of the fire zone shall be coterminous with
the C-1, C-2 and C-3 zoning districts. The fire zone provisions of the adopted
building code shall apply to all construction in districts classified as C-1,
C-2, or C-3.
   M.   Places Of Worship: Church or other places of worship shall be permitted
in the zoning districts as shown in section
10-4-2 of this title, subject to the following site requirements:
 
District            Minimum   Minimum Yards
                    Site Area Front   Side    Rear
R1A                 3 acres   50 feet 50 feet 50 feet
RE-1, R-1, R-2, R-3 1 acre    25 feet 25 feet 15 feet
C-1, C-2, C-3       1/2 acre  35 feet 10 feet 15 feet
 
   N.   Screening Of Open Storage: Any area of greater than four hundred (400)
square feet which is used for outside storage in conjunction with any
commercial or industrial use shall be screened on all sides which abut a
property in a residential district or are visible from a public road easement
or right of way. Such screening shall be by a solid fence or wall of at least
six feet (6') in height, or such other design or method as may be approved by
the planning commission.
   O.   Site Plan Review:
      1.   Plan Requirements: The following requirements for site plan review
shall apply to the development, redevelopment of land; building or rebuilding
of structures on any commercially zoned lot or parcel which has frontage on any
expressway, primary or secondary thoroughfare, or any primary arterial street.
         a.   Plans for any portion of any site which involve the construction
of public engineering improvements on public easements or rights of way, of
which are to be dedicated to the public, shall be certified by a professional
engineer registered in the state of Oklahoma.
         b.   Plans shall be drawn to scale at a scale of not less than one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
         c.   Plans shall show clearly the location of the tract, lot or parcel
in relation to surrounding properties and public roadways.
         d.   Plans shall show this topography or spot elevation with the
direction of drainage, plus any proposed changes to land elevations.
         e.   Plans shall show all proposed entrances and exits for vehicles,
including location, type and size of drives.
         f.   Plans shall show all off street parking and loading spaces.
         g.   Plans shall show the location, general use, number of floors,
height, net and gross floor area of each building.
         h.   Plans shall show any outside display, sales, or storage areas.
         i.   Plans shall show all signs and illumination proposed for the
location.
         j.   Plans shall show provisions to be made for screening and
landscaping of buildings, parking and outside activity areas as deemed
necessary by the planning commission.
      2.   Site Plan Approval: The approval of the planning commission of
required site plans for development or construction shall be a condition upon
the issuance of any building permit, and failure to conform to approved site
plans shall void any building permits issued pursuant thereto. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 7-12)
10-7-12: EMERGENCY AND PROTECTIVE SHELTERS, HOMELESS CENTERS, RESIDENTIAL
TREATMENT CENTERS AND TRANSITIONAL LIVING CENTERS SPACING:
   A.   The supplemental use regulations of this section shall apply to all
emergency and protective shelters, homeless centers, residential treatment
centers and transitional living centers uses as set forth in
Table 10-5-2 of this code.
   B.   To avoid over-concentration, all emergency and protective shelters,
homeless centers, residential treatment centers and transitional living centers
uses must be separated from one another by a minimum distance of two thousand
six hundred forty feet (2,640'), as measured in a straight line from the
nearest point on the lot line of the property occupied by one of these uses to
the nearest point on a lot line of the other property occupied by one of the
subject uses. The separation distance requirements of this subsection may be
reduced if approved through the special exception approval process. (Ord. 380,
11-6-2023)
ARTICLE A. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Purposes
10-7A-2: Location And Character, Review
10-7A-3: Uses Permitted
10-7A-4: Bulk And Area Requirements
10-7A-5: Administration Of Planned Unit Development
10-7A-6: Public Hearing And Planning Commission Action
10-7A-7: City Council Action
10-7A-8: Planned Unit Development Subdivision Plat
10-7A-9: Issuance Of Building Permits
10-7A-10: Amendments
10-7A-11: Abandonment
10-7A-12: Appeals To District Court From Actions Of Planning Commission
10-7A-1: PURPOSES:
The purposes of planned unit developments are to permit flexibility that will
encourage a more creative approach in the development of land and will result
in a more efficient use of open area, or will facilitate orderly land use
transition while maintaining density and area coverage permitted in the general
zoning district or districts in which the project is located; to permit
flexibility in design, placement of buildings, and use of open spaces,
circulation facilities, and off street parking areas; and to best utilize the
potential of sites characterized by special features of geography, topography,
parcel size or shape, or proximity to sensitive land use areas. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 7-10)
10-7A-2: LOCATION AND CHARACTER, REVIEW:
   A.   Planned unit development is permitted:
      1.   On tracts of not less than five (5) acres in size.
      2.   On tracts of not less than one acre in size located within a
district or districts having supplemental designation PUD.
   B.   In every instance, the PUD is to be reviewed as to the proposed
location and character of the uses and the treatment of the development of the
tract. The regulations of the general zoning district or districts remain
applicable except as specifically modified pursuant to the provisions of this
article. No modification of use or bulk and area requirements of the applicable
general use district or districts shall be permitted unless a subdivision plat
or replat incorporating the provisions and requirements of this article is
submitted to and approved by the planning commission and the city council and
filed of record in the office of the county clerk of Delaware County, Oklahoma.
(1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-10)
10-7A-3: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Principal Uses: The primary uses in a planned unit development shall be
those permitted in the zoning district(s) involved or those uses permitted in
more restrictive zoning districts (i.e., in a commercial district, a planned
unit development could be dominated by shopping facilities or apartments, but
in a multi-family residential district, the predominant land use would have to
be housing). In predominantly residential PUDs, certain other principal uses,
other than dwellings, which are permitted by right or exception in the
residential districts may be included within a PUD, if such uses do not occupy
more than ten percent (10%) of the gross area of the PUD, and are designed and
located to be compatible with the residential uses of the PUD and with the
residential use of adjacent properties. It is intended that the PUD provisions
may be used as an alternative approach in processing of all types of
developments.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses customarily incident to the principal
uses included within the PUD are permitted. Accessory signs shall comply with
the provisions of the zoning districts except as hereafter provided for
accessory commercial uses. Within a PUD in a residential district, accessory
commercial facilities may be included in accordance with the following
provisions of this section.
   C.   Considerations: In considering commercial uses as a part of a planned
unit development in a residential district, the planning commission shall
consider:
      1.   The relationship of the proposed commercial use to:
         a.   The land parcel (both as to boundary, shape, topography, lake
frontage, and other physical features).
         b.   The land and land uses outside the proposed development.
         c.   The arrangement of the other portions of the proposed
development.
      2.   The nature of the commercial use included in the proposal.
   D.   More Than One Business: In developments proposing more than one
business, the aggregate floor area of the commercial facilities shall not
exceed fifty (50) square feet per dwelling unit, nor a total of thirty thousand
(30,000) square feet.
   E.   Maximum Floor Area: Each commercial establishment shall be limited to a
maximum of three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet of floor area.
   F.   Signs: The commercial signs shall be limited to one nameplate or not
more than sixteen (16) square feet for each establishment. Nameplates shall be
attached flat against a building wall and shall not be animated, flashing, or
have other than indirect illumination. Windows signs shall not be permitted.
   G.   Design: The commercial area shall be designed primarily for the
service, convenience, and benefit of the residents of the PUD. The planning
commission may permit a commercial establishment designed to serve patrons both
inside and outside the development if it is determined that a land use problem
is not likely upon consideration of the items listed in subsection A of this
section. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-10)
10-7A-4: BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area Requirements:
      1.   The space required in a planned unit development project, including:
lot area, area per unit and percent of lot coverage, exclusive of the area of
public or private streets, shall meet the requirements of the district(s)
wherein the project is located (as set out in section
10-4-2 of this title). Provided, however, that upon a finding that the PUD
proposal is so designed as to provide the best use of the land with, at the
same time, a good and full protection of the public welfare and the general
intent and spirit of the comprehensive plan and these regulations, the planning
commission may award an increase in the density of development not to exceed
ten percent (10%) of that otherwise allowable in the district(s) in which the
PUD is located.
      2.   If the project area falls in two (2) or more zoning districts, the
space requirements of the project shall be established by calculating the
requirements of the various districts as applied to the amount of area in each
district; in a planned unit development, all area used for development purposes
including recreation areas, open space areas, the aggregate development area
for computation of space requirements.
      3.   The area of planned unit development shall be considered as one
parcel regardless of the extent to which the area may be divided by interior
streets or other features.
   B.   Height Requirements: The height of buildings shall not be more than one
and one-half (11/2) times the distance between the building line and the edge
of the pavement of the nearest street. The building measurement shall be from
the ground floor level to the eave or top of the vertical wall should there be
no eave. The planning commission, upon review of plans for a planned unit
development, may approve buildings of greater height than otherwise permitted
in the zoning district.
   C.   Perimeter Requirements:
      1.   The building setback from the exterior boundaries of the PUD shall
not be less than the minimum yards customarily required for the district or
districts in which located. Provided, that within two hundred feet (200') of
any abutting property in a residential district, structures exceeding ten feet
(10') in height measured from the ground floor to the eave or top vertical wall
if there is no eave shall conform to the setback requirements of the zoning
district plus two feet (2') of setback for each one foot (1') of building
height exceeding ten feet (10') measured from the ground floor level to the
eave or top of vertical wall if there is no eave.
      2.   Unenclosed off street parking areas, containing five (5) or more
spaces, shall be screened from adjoining areas in a residential district by the
erection of a screening wall, fence, or hedge of acceptable design along the
lot line or lines in common with the residential district; provided, that if
the parking area is located more than fifty feet (50') from the residential
district, the planning commission may waive screening requirements.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading:
      1.   Off street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as specified
for the applicable use. The planning commission may consider designs providing
for reasonable sharing of parking spaces by land uses which have inherently
compatible time demands for parking.
      2.   Required spaces may be provided on the lot containing the units for
which it is intended to serve or in common areas. Common parking areas shall be
designed and located so as to be accessible to the units it is intended to
serve.
      3.   Provisions for the ownership and maintenance of common parking space
as will ensure its continuity and conservation shall be incorporated in
subdivision plat. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-10)
10-7A-5: ADMINISTRATION OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
Procedural steps are:
Outline development plan.
Supplemental designation PUD.
Subdivision plat.
   A.   General:
      1.   Any person, corporation, partnership, association, or combination
thereof, owning or possessing a property right or interest in or to a tract of
not less than five (5) acres in size may make application for the approval of
an outline development plan as provided in sections
10-7A-3 and
10-7A-4 of this article.
      2.   Any person, corporation, partnership, association, or combination
thereof, owning or possessing a property right or interest in or to a tract of
not less than one acre in size may make application for the supplemental
district designation PUD application. Due to the previous division of land
areas in an already developed area, the planning commission shall determine if
a proposed site is suitable for development as a PUD. The planning commission
and city council may place the supplemental designation PUD upon locations
through the established zoning amendment process.
      3.   In areas of existing development, any person, corporation,
partnership, association, or combination thereof may propose the redevelopment
or reuse of land through the processing of a PUD application. Due to the
previous division of land areas in an already developed area, the planning
commission shall determine if a proposed site is suitable for development as a
PUD. The planning commission and city council may place the supplemental
designation PUD upon locations through the established zoning amendment
process.
   B.   Application And Outline Development Plan: An application for a planned
unit development shall be filed with the planning commission. The application
shall be accompanied by the payment of a fee equal to that for rezoning
applications which shall include advertising and sign costs. The application
shall be in such form and content as the planning commission may, by
resolution, establish; provided, that three (3) copies of an outline
development plan shall accompany the filing of the application. The outline
development plan shall consist of maps and/or text which contain:
      1.   Existing topographic character of the land, and any topographic
changes which are proposed.
      2.   Proposed land uses, including public uses and open space and the
approximate location of buildings and other structures.
      3.   The character and approximate density of development. Density shall
be expressed in numbers of dwelling units and quantitative area of each
identifiable segment of the development.
      4.   The approximate location of thoroughfares.
      5.   Sufficient surrounding area to demonstrate the relationship of the
development to adjoining uses, both existing and proposed.
      6.   An explanation of the character of the planned development.
      7.   The expected schedule of development. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-10)
10-7A-6: PUBLIC HEARING AND PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
The planning commission, upon the filing of an application for the supplemental
district designation PUD or the filing of an application for the approval of an
outline development plan, shall set the matter for public hearing and give
fifteen (15) days' notice thereof by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation. Where deemed necessary by the planning commission, additional
notice shall be given by the posting of a sign or signs on the property. Within
sixty (60) days after the filing of an application, the planning commission
shall conduct the public hearing and shall determine:
   A.   Whether the proposal is consistent with the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Whether the proposal harmonizes with the existing and expected
development of surrounding areas.
   C.   Whether the proposal is a unified treatment of the development
possibilities of the project site.
   D.   Whether the proposal would benefit orderly and proper development of
the city.
   E.   Whether the sidewalks and streets provide a traffic flow compatible
with the development and surrounding street pattern. Where a supplemental
district designation PUD is required for the processing of a planned unit
development, the planning commission shall forward its recommendation, the
application, and the outline development plan to the city council for further
hearing as provided in sections
10-7A-7,
10-7A-8 and
10-7A-9 of this article. Where planned unit developing may be processed without
the supplemental designation PUD (5 acres or larger), the planning commission
shall approve, approve with modification, or disapprove the outline development
plan. Approval by the planning commission shall be authorization for the
processing of a subdivision plat incorporating the provisions of the outline
development plan. The planning commission, upon approval of the outline
development plan, may direct that a notation indicating the boundaries of the
PUD be made on the zoning map. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-10)
10-7A-7: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
Upon receipt of the application, outline development plan, and planning
commission recommendation, the city council shall hold a hearing, review the
outline development plan, approve, disapprove, modify, or return the outline
development plan to the planning commission for further consideration. Upon
approval, the zoning map shall be amended to reflect the supplemental
designation PUD, and the applicant shall be authorized to process a subdivision
plat incorporating the provisions of the outline development plan. (1985 Code
ch. 16 § 7-10)
10-7A-8: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION PLAT:
A planned unit development subdivision plat shall be filed with the planning
commission and shall be processed in accordance with the subdivision
regulations, and shall include:
   A.   Details as to the location of uses and street arrangement.
   B.   Provisions for the ownership and maintenance of any common open space
as will reasonably ensure its continuity and conservation.
   C.   Such covenants as will reasonably ensure the continued compliance with
the approved outline development plan. In order that the public interest may be
protected, the city shall be made beneficiary of the covenants pertaining to
such matters as location of uses, height of structures, setbacks, screening,
and access. Such covenants shall provide that the city may enforce compliance
therewith. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-10)
10-7A-9: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS:
After the filing of an approved PUD subdivision plat, and notice thereof to the
building inspector, no building permits shall be issued on lands within the PUD
except in accordance with the approved plat. A building permit in a residential
PUD for a freestanding or separate commercial structure shall not be issued
until significant progress has been made on other aspects of the proposed
development. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-10)
10-7A-10: AMENDMENTS:
Minor changes in the platted PUD may be authorized by the planning commission
upon a review of a proposed amended subdivision plat, incorporating such
changes, so long as substantial compliance is maintained with the outline
development plan and the purposes and standards of the PUD provisions hereof.
Changes which would represent a significant departure from the outline
development plan shall require formal abandonment and the subsequent filing of
a new application for planned unit development. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 7-10)
10-7A-11: ABANDONMENT:
Where a planned unit development has been processed pursuant to the
supplemental designation of PUD, its abandonment shall require the city
council's approval after recommendation by the planning commission, of an
application for amendment to the zoning map repealing the supplemental
designation of PUD. Where a planned unit development has been processed by
reason of being more than ten (10) acres, its abandonment shall require the
approval of the planning commission, and vacation of the plat. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 7-10)
10-7A-12: APPEALS TO DISTRICT COURT FROM ACTIONS OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
Any person aggrieved may appeal the final action of the planning commission on
a proposed outline development plan or on a proposed subdivision plat to the
district court by filing with the secretary of the planning commission within
ten (10) days after the action appealed from, a notice of appeal stating the
grounds thereof. There shall be no right of appeal from any act of the planning
commission taken in its advisory capacity to the city council. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 7-10)
CHAPTER 8
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Nonconforming Uses
10-8-2: Height And Density
10-8-3: Buildings
10-8-4: Street Access
10-8-5: Zoning Of Annexed Territory
10-8-1: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Continuing Existing Nonconforming Uses: Except as hereinafter
specified, any use, building, or structure existing on the effective date
hereof may be continued, even though such use, building, or structure may not
conform with provisions hereof for the district in which it is located;
provided, however, that this section does not apply to any use, building, or
structure established in violation of any zoning regulation previously in
effect in the city, unless said use, building, or structure now conforms with
these regulations.
   B.   Limitation On Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   No nonconforming use of a building or land shall be enlarged,
extended, reconstructed, substituted, or structurally altered, unless:
         a.   Such change is required by law or order; or
         b.   The use thereof is changed to a use permitted in the district in
which the building or land is located; or
         c.   Authority is granted by the board of adjustment to extend a
nonconforming use or substitute another nonconforming use for a nonconforming
use; or
         d.   Authority is granted by the board of adjustment to enlarge or
complete a building devoted to a nonconforming use upon a lot occupied by such
building where such extension is necessary and incidental to the existing use
of such building; or
         e.   Authority has been granted by the board of adjustment to extend a
nonconforming use throughout those parts of a building which were manifestly
designed or arranged for such use prior to the date when such use or building
became nonconforming, if no structural alterations, except those required by
law, are made therein.
      2.   Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use,
such use shall not thereafter be changed to a nonconforming use.
   C.   Cessation Of Use Of Building Or Land:
      1.   A lawful nonconforming use of a building or structure that has been
voluntarily discontinued for a period of one year shall not thereafter be
resumed.
      2.   A lawful nonconforming use of land that does not involve
improvements with an assessed value in excess of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) that has been voluntarily discontinued for a period of sixty (60)
days shall not thereafter be resumed.
      3.   A nonconforming commercial or industrial use of land shall be
discontinued within one year, unless on the effective date hereof the assessed
value of buildings located on the property was in excess of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). Any such nonconforming use of land which becomes
nonconforming by reason of subsequent amendments to these regulations shall
also be discontinued within one year from the date of such amendment.
   D.   Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Signs: All nonconforming signs,
billboards, or commercial advertising structures shall be discontinued within
three (3) years from the effective date hereof, except that nonconforming as
specifically describing the business or nature of a lawful nonconforming
building, structure, or use on the premises may be maintained during the lawful
lifetime of the building, structure, or use.
   E.   Construction Approved Prior To These Regulations: Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the overall layout, plans, construction,
size, or designated uses of any development, building, structure, or part
thereof, where official approvals and required building permits have been
granted before the enactment of these regulations, or any amendment thereof,
the construction of which, conforming with such plans, shall have been started
prior to the effective date hereof and completion thereof carried on in a
normal manner within the subsequent six (6) month period, and not discontinued
until completion, except for reasons beyond the builder's control.
   F.   Replacement Of Damaged Or Destroyed Nonconforming Uses: Any
nonconforming building or structure damaged more than fifty percent (50%) of
its then appraised value for tax purposes, exclusive of foundations, by fire,
flood, explosion, wind, earthquake, war, riot, or other calamity or act of God,
shall not be restored or reconstructed and used as before such happening; but
if less than fifty percent (50%) damaged above the foundation, it may be
restored, reconstruction to be completed within twelve (12) months of such
happening.
   G.   Repairs To Nonconforming Uses, Limitation: Such repairs and maintenance
work as are required to keep it in sound condition may be made to a
nonconforming building or structure; provided, that no structural alterations
shall be made except such as are required by law or ordinance. Except as
otherwise provided elsewhere herein, the total structural repairs and
alterations that may be made in a nonconforming building or structure shall
not, during its life subsequent to the date of its becoming a nonconforming
use, exceed fifty percent (50%) of its then assessed value for tax purposes at
such time, unless such building or structure is changed to a conforming use.
(1985 Code ch. 16 § 8-1)
10-8-2: HEIGHT AND DENSITY:
No building shall hereafter be erected or altered which will exceed the height
limit nor shall any building or land be used or occupied hereafter in excess of
the density regulations for that district; no building shall hereafter be
erected or altered to accommodate a greater number of families than those
specified for that district; no building shall be erected or altered to exceed
the specifications or required lot size, maximum coverage, yard requirements,
height limitations, or bulk limitations for that district as defined. (1985
Code ch. 16 § 8-2)
10-8-3: BUILDINGS:
Any building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on one
lot and, except as provided herein, there shall be no more than one principal
building and the customary accessory buildings on one lot; provided further,
that accessory buildings may not be erected or placed in the front and side
yard areas as required in the separate districts. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 8-3)
10-8-4: STREET ACCESS:
No principal building shall hereafter be constructed on a lot which does not
abut a public dedicated street. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 8-4)
10-8-5: ZONING OF ANNEXED TERRITORY:
Any territory annexed to the corporate limits of Jay, Oklahoma, subsequent to
the effective date hereof will be within the jurisdiction of these regulations
and will, upon annexation, be zoned as R-1 single-family residential, unless
otherwise classified by the city council. Within six (6) months after the
effective date of such annexation, the city council shall, in accordance with
11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 43-101 through 43-109 and these regulations,
rezone said annexed territory in keeping with the comprehensive plan. (1985
Code ch. 16 § 8-5)
CHAPTER 9
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Existing Lots Of Record
10-9-2: Fences, Walls And Hedges
10-9-3: Planting In Parkways
10-9-4: Obstructions Around Fire Hydrants
10-9-1: EXISTING LOTS OF RECORD:
   A.   Use As Building Site: Any lot or parcel of land in any district that
was under separate ownership and of record on the effective date hereof, or
amendment thereof, where no adjoining undeveloped land fronting on the same
street was under the same ownership on said date, may be used as a building
site even though such lot or parcel fails to meet the minimum requirements for
lot area, lot width, or both, that are generally applicable to lots in the
district. With respect to such lots, yard dimensions, and other requirements
not involving lot area or width shall be complied with, subject to subsections
B and C of this section.
   B.   Side Yard Requirements: On any such lot or parcel, the side yard
requirements of these regulations shall not operate to reduce the net buildable
width of such lot below thirty eight feet (38'); provided, however, that the
application of this exception shall not be permitted to reduce:
      1.   Any interior side yard below ten percent (10%) of the width of the
lot; or
      2.   Any exterior side yard below twenty percent (20%) of the width of
the lot or eight feet (8'), whichever is greater.
   C.   Reduction Of Net Buildable Depth: On any such lot or parcel, no
combination of the following requirements shall operate to reduce the net
buildable depth of such lot below seventy feet (70'):
      1.   Front and rear yard;
      2.   Front and/or rear building setback; provided, however, that the
application of this exception shall not be permitted to reduce:
         a.   Any front yard below ten percent (10%) of the depth of the lot;
or
         b.   Any rear yard below fifteen percent (15%) of the depth of the
lot, or ten feet (10'), whichever is greater. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 9-1)
10-9-2: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES:
   A.   Location: Fences, walls and hedges may be located in required yards as
follows:
      1.   In areas of required rear yards, not exceeding eight feet (8').
      2.   In areas of required side yards, not exceeding six feet (6').
      3.   In areas of required front yards, not exceeding four feet (4'),
except in areas of vision triangles.
   B.   Vision Triangle: On any corner lot, no fence, wall, hedge, or other
structure or planting more than three feet (3') in height above curb level
shall be erected, placed, or maintained within the triangular area formed by
the intersecting street lines and a straight line joining said street lines at
points whose distance from the point of intersection is twenty five feet (25').
(1985 Code ch. 16 § 9-2)
10-9-3: PLANTING IN PARKWAYS:
No hedge, tree, shrub, or other growth shall be planted in the area between the
street curb and the front property line, said area being known as the
"parkway", when such planting would create a traffic hazard by obstructing the
view or when such planting would obstruct or hinder future development or use
of said parkway. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 9-3)
10-9-4: OBSTRUCTIONS AROUND FIRE HYDRANTS:
No person shall place, or cause to be placed, upon or about any fire hydrant
any rubbish, plants, building material, fence, or other obstruction of any
character whatsoever, nor shall any person fasten to a fire hydrant any
guyrope, cable, or brace, nor park any vehicle nearer than fifteen feet (15')
to a fire hydrant. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 9-4)
CHAPTER 10
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Building Permits
10-10-2: Certificate Of Occupancy
10-10-3: Amendments
10-10-4: Validity
10-10-5: Violation; Penalty
10-10-1: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to commence the construction or
the excavation for the construction of any building or structure, including
accessory building, or to commence the moving or alteration of any building,
including accessory buildings, until the building inspector has issued a
building permit for such work. Except upon written authorization of the Board
of Adjustment as provided in article A of this chapter, no such building permit
shall be issued for any building where said construction, moving, alteration,
or use thereof would be in violation of any provisions of these regulations.
   B.   Application For Permit: There shall be submitted with each application
for a building permit two (2) copies of a layout or plot plan drawn to scale,
showing the actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact
size and location on the lot of any existing buildings or structures, if any,
and the size and location of the building or structure to be constructed,
altered, or moved. The applicant shall also state the existing or intended use
of each such building or part of building and supply such other information
with regard to the lot and neighboring lots that may be necessary to determine
compliance with and provide for the enforcement of these regulations. One copy
of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the building inspector,
after he shall have marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and
attested to same by his signature on such copy. The second copy of the plans,
similarly marked, shall be retained by the building inspector. The application
for a building permit shall be made by the owner of the property concerned or a
certified agent thereof.
   C.   Fees: The application fee for a building permit in the City shall be
prescribed in the Building Code for the City.
   D.   Expiration Of Building Permit: If the work described in a building
permit has not begun within one year from the date of issuance thereof, said
permit shall expire and be canceled by the building inspector, and written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 10-
2)
10-10-2: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required: No building hereafter erected, altered, or
extended shall be used until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
building inspector/Code Officer, stating that the building or proposed use
complies with the provisions of these regulations and the Building Code.
   B.   Fee: The application fee for a certificate of occupancy shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00).
   C.   Penalty: The penalty for use of a building or land without obtaining a
certificate of occupancy is triple the cost of the required fee. (Ord. 329, 3-
4-2019)
10-10-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: These regulations may be amended by changing the boundaries
of districts or by changing any other provision thereof whenever the public
necessity and convenience and general welfare require such amendment.
   B.   Application For Amendment:
      1.   Initiating Action: Amendment may be initiated by the City Council or
the Planning Commission or by an application of one or more owners of property
affected by the proposed amendment.
      2.   Application Fee: Each application by a property owner shall be
accompanied by a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), no part of which shall
be returnable to the applicant.
      3.   Accompanying Data: An application for amendment shall be accompanied
by drawings and any data necessary to demonstrate that the proposed amendment
is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan and that public
necessity, convenience, and general welfare require the adoption of the
proposed amendment. An accurate legal description and map of the land and
existing buildings shall be submitted with the application. A certified
abstract or list of all of the property and/or a list of County recorded
property owners located within three hundred feet (300') of the subject
property shall be submitted with the application.
      4.   Timing: The application shall be delivered to the Planning
Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the meeting at which
action is to be sought.
   C.   Public Hearings Before Planning Commission; Notice:
      1.   Upon filing of the application, the Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing on said application as provided for herein.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall publish a notice of the public hearing
in an official paper or a newspaper of general circulation in the City at least
twenty (20) days prior to the date of said public hearing, giving the time and
place of the public hearing and the proposed zoning change. Notice shall be
mailed to all owners of property located within three hundred feet (300') of
the subject property.
   D.   Action By Planning Commission: If at the conclusion of the public
hearing, the Planning Commission decides to recommend amendment of these
regulations, said recommendation shall be by resolution of the Planning
Commission carried by the affirmative votes of not less than a majority of its
total membership. A copy of any recommended amendments shall be submitted to
the City Council and shall be accompanied by a report of findings, summary of
hearing, and recommendations of the Planning Commission.
   E.   Action By City Council:
      1.   Action On Planning Commission Recommendation: After receipt of a
copy of any recommendation from the Planning Commission and before any action
may be taken, the City Council shall set the matter for public hearing and
shall give notice of the time and place of the hearing by one publication in an
official newspaper or a newspaper of general circulation in the City at least
fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing.
      2.   Change By City Council In Recommendation Of Planning Commission: If
the City Council proposed to adopt an amendment to the regulations in a form
altered from said amendment as recommended by the Planning Commission, or an
amendment where denial has been recommended by the Planning Commission, the
City Council shall refer said matter back to the Planning Commission for report
and recommendation before adoption. If the Planning Commission has not held a
public hearing on said proposed amendment, it shall do so under the procedure
set forth in subsection E3 of this section. The failure of the Planning
Commission to report within thirty (30) days after reference shall be deemed to
be approval of the proposed amendment.
      3.   Vote Under Protest: In case of a protest against a change, signed by
the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more either of the area of the lots
included in such proposed change, or by owners of fifty percent (50%) or more
of the area of the lots within three hundred feet (300') of the site or the
territory included in such proposed change or separated therefrom by an alley
or street, such amendment shall not become effective except by a favorable vote
of four-fifths (4/5) of all members of the City Council.
   F.   Effect Of Denial Of Application: In case an application for amendment
to the regulations is denied, said application shall not be eligible for
reconsideration for one year subsequent to such denial. A new application
affecting or including all or part of the same property must be substantially
different from the application denied, in the opinion of the Council, to be
eligible for consideration within less than one year of the denial of the
original application. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 12-1)
10-10-4: VALIDITY:
Should any section, subsection, paragraph, clause, or provision of these
regulations be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the
same shall not affect the validity of the regulations as a whole or any part
thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid. The City Council does
hereby declare that they would have passed these regulations and each section,
subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, and phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses, or phrases be declared invalid. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 12-2)
10-10-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of these regulations shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine as now provided by law for misdemeanors. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (1985 Code
ch. 16 § 11-1)
ARTICLE A. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
10-10A-1: Appointment; Terms
10-10A-2: Vacancies; Removals
10-10A-3: Organization, Rules And Meetings
10-10A-4: Powers And Duties
10-10A-5: Procedures; Appeals, Hearings, Decisions
10-10A-1: APPOINTMENT; TERMS:
There is hereby created a city board of adjustment consisting of five (5)
members, each to be appointed by the city council, to serve without pay, for a
term of three (3) years. It is specifically provided, however, that on the
effective date hereof, such board of adjustment as was legally in existence
immediately prior to such date shall be constituted as the board of adjustment
hereby created, and the terms of the then members of the board shall expire on
the same dates as were established at the times of the most recent appointment
of each of such members, or until their successors are duly appointed and
qualified. Thereafter, all appointments shall be made for a term of three (3)
years. Appointments of members of the board of adjustment may include two (2)
members of the planning commission, each of whom, if appointed, shall serve as
voting members. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 10-1)
10-10A-2: VACANCIES; REMOVALS:
   A.   Vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the city council to serve
out the unexpired term.
   B.   A member of the city board of adjustment, once qualified, can
thereafter be removed during his term of office only for cause and after public
hearing. In the event of the death, resignation, or removal of any such member
before the expiration of this term, a successor shall be appointed by the city
council to serve his unexpired term. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 10-1)
10-10A-3: ORGANIZATION, RULES AND MEETINGS:
   A.   Officers: A chairman and vice chairman shall be elected annually by the
board from among its membership.
   B.   Duties Of Officers: The chairman, or in his absence the vice chairman,
shall preside at all meetings, shall decide all points of order or procedure,
and, as necessary, shall administer oath and compel the attendance of
witnesses.
   C.   Rules And Meetings: The board may adopt rules to govern its
proceedings; provided, however, that such rules are not inconsistent with these
regulations. Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman
and at such other times as the board may determine. All meetings of the board
shall be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes of its own
proceedings, showing the vote, indicate such fact, and shall keep records of
its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall immediately be
filed in the office of the board and shall be a public record. (1985 Code ch.
16 § 10-1)
10-10A-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of adjustment shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by law
and by these regulations, which are more particularly specified as follows:
   A.   Interpretation: Upon appeal from a decision by the building inspector
or other administrative official, to decide any question involving the
interpretation of any provision of these regulations, including determination
of the exact location of any district boundary, if there is uncertainty with
respect thereto.
   B.   Exceptions: To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of these
regulations, provided the following requirements are met:
      1.   Findings: No such special exception shall be granted by the board of
adjustment unless it relates to a permitted use within the particular zoning
district or is specifically enumerated in subsection B2 of this section, and
meets both of the following findings:
         a.   That the use as described by the applicant will comply with all
other conditions established therefor by these regulations or that required
variances have been granted; and
         b.   That the use will not, under the circumstances of the particular
case, be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public
welfare.
      2.   Special Exceptions: In addition to special use exceptions, the board
of adjustment may grant the following special exceptions:
         a.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of
a district divides a lot in single ownership as shown of record;
         b.   To interpret the provisions of these regulations where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map
fixing the several districts, which map is on file in the office of the city
clerk; and
         c.   To grant exceptions to the off street parking requirement set
forth in these regulations when it is determined that the size and shape of the
lot to be built on is such that off street parking provisions could not be
complied with, and that the proposed use will not create undue traffic
congestion in the adjacent streets.
      3.   Decisions Made By Resolution: Every decision of the board of an
appeal or application shall vote by resolution, each of which shall consist of
a full record of the findings of the board in the particular case. Each such
resolution shall be filed in the board's office, with case number, under one or
another of the following headings:
         a.   Interpretations,
         b.   Exceptions, or
         c.   Variances,
together with all documents pertaining thereto.
      4.   Fee: The fee for any appeal or application to the board shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00), no part of which shall be refundable.
      5.   Effect Of Appeal: An appeal shall stay all proceedings of the action
appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certified to
the board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that, by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the board
or by a court of record on application on notice to the officer from whom the
appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
      6.   Appeals To District Court: Any person or persons, jointly or
severally, aggrieved by any decision of the board, or any taxpayer or an
officer, department or board of the city may present to the district court of
Delaware County, Oklahoma, a notice of appeal from any decision of the board of
adjustment. The notice of appeal shall specify the grounds of the appeal and
shall be filed with the district court and with the clerk of the board within
ten (10) days after the filing of the decision appealed from and not
thereafter. Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the clerk of the board shall
transmit to the court clerk and to the appellant, certified copies of all
documents or other papers constituting the record in the case, together with
the order, decision, or ruling of the board. An appeal from the board of
adjustment shall be heard and tried de novo in district court of Delaware
County, Oklahoma. All proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from
shall be stayed during the pendency of the appeal unless such stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property.
      7.   Variances: To vary or adapt the strict application of any of the
requirements hereunder in the case of exceptionally irregular, narrow, shallow,
or steep lots, or other exceptional physical conditions, where such strict
application would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship that
would deprive the owner of the reasonable use of the land or building involved,
but in no other case. No variance shall be granted to permit in any district a
use that is not a permitted use in such district. In granting any variance, the
board of adjustment shall prescribe any conditions that it deems necessary or
desirable.
      8.   Appeals: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there
is an error of law in any order, requirements, decision, or determination made
by an administrative official in the enforcement of these regulations. (1985
Code ch. 16 § 10-1)
10-10A-5: PROCEDURES; APPEALS, HEARINGS, DECISIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Specified Procedures: The board shall act in strict
accordance with the procedures specified by law and by these regulations.
   B.   Appeals:
      1.   Appeals to the board can be taken by any person aggrieved by any
officer, department, or board of the city affected by any decision of the
building inspector or other administrative officer.
      2.   All appeals and applications made to the board shall be made in
writing, on forms prescribed by the board, within ten (10) days after the
decision has been rendered by the building inspector or other administrative
officer.
      3.   The appeal or application shall be accompanied by an abstract or
certified mailing list and/or a list of county recorded property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the subject property.
      4.   Every appeal or application shall refer to the specific provision of
these regulations involved and shall exactly set forth:
         a.   The interpretation that is claimed;
         b.   The use for which the permit is sought; or
         c.   The details of the variance that is applied for and the grounds
on which it is claimed the variance should be granted, as the case may be.
         d.   The appeal or applications shall be filed with the officer from
whom appeal is taken and with the board. The officer from whom appeal is taken
shall forthwith transmit to the board all papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   Hearing And Notice: The board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of an appeal, give public notice thereof fifteen (15) days before the
date of the hearing, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear
in person, by agent, or by attorney.
   D.   Decisions And Records:
      1.   In exercising its power, the board may, in conformity with the
provisions set forth in the statutes of the state governing said board, revise
or reform, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from and make such order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made and shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom appeal is taken.
      2.   Three (3) members of the city board of adjustment shall constitute a
quorum. The concurring vote of three (3) members shall be necessary to revise
any order, requirement, decision, or determination of any such administrative
official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is
required to pass under these regulations or to effect any variance in said
regulations. (1985 Code ch. 16 § 10-1)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Statutory Authorization
11-1-2: Findings Of Fact
11-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
11-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
11-1-5: Definitions
11-1-6: Lands To Which Chapter Applies
11-1-7: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
11-1-8: Establishment Of Development Permit
11-1-9: Compliance Required
11-1-10: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
11-1-11: Interpretation
11-1-12: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
11-1-13: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
11-1-14: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
11-1-15: Permit Procedures
11-1-16: Variance Procedures
11-1-17: General Standards For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-18: Specific Standards For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-19: Standards For Subdivisions Proposals
11-1-20: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
11-1-21: Floodways
11-1-22: Floodplain Management Fee Schedule
11-1-23: Penalties For Noncompliance
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Oklahoma has, in the Oklahoma floodplain
management act, sections 1601 through 1620.1 of title 82 of the Oklahoma
Statutes, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the city of Jay,
Delaware County, Oklahoma, does hereby ordain that these flood damage
prevention regulations as set forth in this chapter, and any lawfully enacted
amendments thereto, be hereby enacted and effective on September 13, 2019.
(Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-
13-2019)
11-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common
usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
Structures which are on the same parcel of property as the principal structure
and the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure,
including, but not limited to, garages and storage sheds.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD: The land area that would be
inundated by the 1-percent-annual (1%) chance one hundred (100) year flood
based on future conditions hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on a
community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one (1) to three (3) feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR,
AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) and found in the accompanying flood insurance study (FIS) for zones A,
AE, AH, A1-30 and AR that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from
the flood that has a one percent (1%) chance of equaling or exceeding in any
given year; also called the base flood.
   BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL: A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as "existing structures."
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCES: This chapter, and any lawfully enacted
amendments or revisions thereto.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (for example, mudflow)
and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which
the federal emergency management agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING: Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY: See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
   LEVEE: A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one (1) or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the north American vertical
datum (NAVD) of 1988, to which base flood elevations shown on a community's
flood insurance rate map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure."
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10)
or (d)(3) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation
is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the north American vertical datum (NAVD) of
1988, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in floodplains.
(Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-6: LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES:
This flood damage prevention chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood
hazard within the jurisdiction of the city. (Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339,
9-13-2019)
11-1-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in the current scientific
and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study For Delaware
County, Oklahoma And Incorporated Areas", dated August 5, 2010, with the
accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM) are hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter; as well as those dated September 13,
2019, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps and/or flood boundary-
floodway maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) dated September 13, 2019, are also hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-8: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-9: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-10: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and any
other ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 268, 7-
5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-11: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-12: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 268, 7-5-
2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-13: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The appointed floodplain administrator, Robert G. Real, is hereby appointed the
floodplain administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this
chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R. (emergency management and
assistance - national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management. (Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-14: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following.
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed building
site projects, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. §1334) from which prior approval is required.
   E.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Oklahoma
water resources board prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the federal emergency management
agency.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
section
11-1-7, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
sections
11-1-17 through
11-1-23.
   I.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
   J.   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. chapter 1, section 65.12 of the
national flood insurance program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than 1 foot (1'), provided
that the community first completes all of the provisions required by section
65.12.
   K.   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§1601-1620,
as amended.
   L.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures with
in the city limits, determine if the residential and non-residential structures
and manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce the
substantial improvement requirement.
   M.   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a decision of
the board of trustees. (Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-15: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure shall be flood-proofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the non-residential flood-proofed structure shall meet the flood-proofing
criteria of section
11-1-18B.;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      5. Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with section
11-1-14A.; and
   B.   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      9.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-16: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The appeal board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in section
11-1-15B. have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one
half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (section
11-1-3).
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites For Granting Variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in divisions A. through I. of this section are
met; and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-17: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   G.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-18: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in section
11-1-7, section
11-1-14H., or section
11-1-19C., the following provisions are required.
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated one-foot (1') above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this division as proposed
in section
11-1-15A.1. is satisfied.
   B.   Non-Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated one-foot (1')
above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are flood-
proofed shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator.
   C.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings on separate walls having a total net
area of not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding shall be provided;
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one-foot (1')
above grade; and
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on a
community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      2.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured home
park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such bottom of the I-beam of the
manufactured home is elevated one-foot (1') above the base flood elevation and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
The home shall be installed by a licensed installer according to Oklahoma state
law and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the floodplain
administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
      3.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
this division D. be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of
the I-beam of the manufactured home is elevated one-foot (1') above the base
flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within zones A, A1-30, AH and AE with in the city FIRM, either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of section
11-1-15, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes"
in division D. of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use
if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   F.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
zones A and AE on the city FIRM shall comply with the following:
      1.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
      2.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
      3.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
      4.   Structures shall be small in size, not exceed six hundred (600)
square feet in size;
      5.   Structures exceeding six hundred (600) square feet in size will be
required to meet all applicable standards of sections
11-1-8,
11-1-16,
11-1-17, and this section, including relevant divisions;
      6.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE;
      7.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      8.   The structure shall be considered low in value, designed to have low
flood damage potential and constructed with flood resistance materials;
      9.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement;
      10.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
      11.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and be placed on opposing walls with the net area of
not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of the size of the
footprint of the structure (flood vents);
      12.   The openings (flood vents) shall be located no higher than one foot
(1') above grade; and
      13.   The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
(Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-19: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
11-1-2 through
11-1-4 of this chapter.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of sections
11-1-8,
11-1-15, and the provisions of sections
11-1-17 through
11-1-23 of this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which are greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5)
acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to sections
11-1-7 or
11-1-14H. of this chapter.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-20: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES):
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in section
11-1-7, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with flood depths of one foot (1') to three feet (3')
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one
foot (1') above the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least
two feet (2') if no depth number is specified).
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures:
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one
foot (1') above the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least
two feet (2') if no depth number is specified); or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO zone, or below the base
flood elevation in an AH zone, level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   C.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in section
11-1-15, are satisfied.
   D.   Require within zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-21: FLOODWAYS:
Floodways, located within areas of special flood hazard established in section
11-1-7, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If division A. above is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
of sections
11-1-17 through
11-1-23.
   C.   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. chapter 1, section 65.12 of the
national flood insurance program regulations, a community may permit
encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations, provided that the community first completes
all of the provisions required by section 65.12. (Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-22: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE:
The city council establishes the following fee schedule, not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one service:
   A.   Notice of intent fee: Fifty dollars ($50.00) maximum.
   B.   Floodplain development permit application review: Seventy five dollars
($75.00).
   C.   Floodplain development permit fee: Residential: Seventy five dollars
($75).
   D.   Floodplain development permit fee: Commercial: Three hundred dollars
($300.00).
   E.   Inspection fee, per inspection: Seventy five dollars ($75.00).
   F.   Variance fee: Seventy five dollars ($75.00)
(Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord. 339, 9-13-2019)
11-1-23: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not more than one
(1) year, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
Delaware County board of commissioners from taking such other lawful action as
is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 268, 7-5-2010; amd. Ord.
339, 9-13-2019)
TITLE 12
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
CEMETERY
SECTION:
12-1-1: Sexton
12-1-2: Cemetery Management And Board Of Trustees
12-1-3: Cemetery Care Fund
12-1-4: Fees And Charges
12-1-5: Lot Sales
12-1-6: Burials
12-1-7: Rules And Regulations
12-1-8: Penalty
12-1-1: SEXTON:
The mayor, with the consent and confirmation of the city council, shall appoint
some suitable person to be sexton of the cemetery, and shall fix the
compensation to be paid for such services. (Ord. 377, 11-6-2023)
12-1-2: CEMETERY MANAGEMENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
Absent the creation of a Cemetery Board of Trustees pursuant to Section 53 of
the City of Jay Charter by the Mayor and City Council as hereinafter provided,
the care, custody, control and management of the municipal cemetery shall be
solely performed by the Mayor and City Council.
   A.   Creation Of Cemetery Board Of Trustees: Upon its election to do so, the
Mayor and Council may create a Cemetery Board of Trustees to be comprised of
three (3) members to be appointed by the mayor, with the approval and
confirmation of the city council. Each member of the cemetery board shall be
appointed to hold office for a term of six (6) years, with the exception that
the original members appointed to the cemetery board shall be appointed for
terms of four (4), five (5) and six (6) years, respectively, and with the
further exception that if a vacancy occurs in the membership of the cemetery
board during the unexpired term of any member thereof, the mayor, with the
approval and confirmation of the city council, shall appoint a successor to
serve the unexpired term of the member whom he/she replaces. Each member of the
cemetery board shall hold office until his/her successor is appointed and
qualified. The mayor and city council may declare a vacancy to exist in any
membership on the cemetery board in any case where in the opinion of the mayor
and city council, any member thereof through incapacity, illness or otherwise,
is unable or unwilling properly to participate in the meetings, deliberations
or functions of the cemetery board.
   B.   Organization; Officers: The members of the cemetery board shall meet
within two (2) weeks after their appointment and confirmation to organize by
electing from their members a chairman, vice chairman and secretary, who shall
serve for a period of one year. The cemetery board shall adopt from time to
time such bylaws, rules and regulations, and amendments thereto, as may be
necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter.
   C.   Duties: The cemetery board shall serve as an advisory board for the
purpose of assisting the mayor and council in the operations of the cemetery
owned and operated by the city. The control of operations of the cemetery shall
remain in the mayor and city council. The cemetery board shall have the duty
and may consider and investigate any subject matter pertaining to the
establishment, development, management, operation, maintenance, beautification
and preservation of all cemetery owned and operated by the city and shall have
the power and duty to recommend to the mayor and the city council plans,
ordinances, rules or regulations pertaining to the establishment, development,
management, operation, maintenance, beautification and preservation of all such
cemetery. The cemetery board may submit employment recommendations and job
description recommendations for cemetery positions to the Mayor and city
council for approval. All employees of the cemetery are hired by the city of
Jay and are under the supervision of the mayor and city council and subject to
disciplinary action by same.
   D.   Compensation: The members of the cemetery board shall serve without
compensation. (Ord. 377, 11-6-2023)
12-1-3: CEMETERY CARE FUND:
   A.   Established: There is hereby established a cemetery care fund for the
maintenance and improvement of the cemetery owned and operated by the city in
accordance with state law.
   B.   Appropriations: At least twenty five percent (25%) of the income to the
city accruing from the sale of cemetery lots and other revenues from the
operation of the municipal cemetery, is hereby appropriated and directed/
segregated by the officers of the city to the credit of the cemetery care fund.
Such segregation shall be accounted for monthly and shall be kept in a separate
account or fund by the city treasurer. (Ord. 377, 11-6-2023)
12-1-4: FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Price Of Grave Sites: The price of grave sites in the municipal
cemetery shall be established from time to time by resolution. (See appendix A
of this code.)
   B.   Setting Monument, Marker:
      1.   Any person placing any aboveground grave cover, individual
mausoleum, ground vault, ledger stone, monument or marker shall pay a one-time
permit fee as set by the city council from time to time. (See appendix A of
this code.) However, veteran's markers that are provided by federal services
shall be exempt from the permit fee.
      2.   No aboveground grave cover, individual mausoleum, ground vault,
ledger stone, monument or marker shall be set, established or placed until the
person placing the same has obtained from the sexton a permit in writing. Such
permit shall indicate the specific location for the stone, monument or marker,
its size and the name of the person securing the same. (See appendix A of this
code.)
   C.   Fee Required Prior To Action: No deed for any cemetery lot shall be
issued, no grave opened nor shall any aboveground grave cover, individual
mausoleum, ground vault, ledger stone, monument or marker be set, located or
placed until and unless the requisite price, fee or charge therefor has been
paid in full to the appropriate city officer. (Ord. 377, 11-6-2023)
12-1-5: LOT SALES:
   A.   Conveyance: All cemetery lots shall be sold at such prices as the mayor
and city council may from time to time adopt and establish. All lots sold
therein shall be conveyed by certificate to be issued by the sexton and signed
by the mayor, and countersigned by the city clerk, under the seal of this city,
which certificate shall show the lot or lots described by numbers as shown upon
the plat of the cemetery, the price paid and by whom paid, and date of
issuance. (See appendix A of this code.)
   B.   Records Maintained: It is the duty of the sexton to keep a record, in a
well bound book to be kept for that purpose, of all sales of lots in the
cemetery, which record shall show the number and location of the lot or lots
sold, the date of sale, to whom sold, and the amount paid for each lot or lots,
and the name of the person whose body is interred in the cemetery. (Ord. 377,
11-6-2023)
12-1-6: BURIALS:
   A.   Permit And Fee Required: In no case shall any person dig any grave or
make any interment in or upon any lot owned by this city in the cemetery until
the city shall have received the full price to be paid for the lot or lots in
or upon which such grave or interment is to be made, and until a permit is
issued by the sexton as provided for herein.
   B.   Permits Issued: The sexton shall have the power and authority to
contract and sell any lot or lots in the cemetery, at the price or prices fixed
and established by the mayor and city council, and to issue permits for
interment pursuant to an interment permit fee as established by the Mayor and
Council from time to time (See appendix A of this code) in the cemetery,
provided such permits shall not be issued until all monies and charges due this
city shall have been paid.
   C.   Container Construction: All interments in the cemetery of the city must
be in caskets enclosed within a box or container constructed of concrete, steel
or plastic and that no wooden outside enclosure shall be accepted.
   D.   Interments Of Cremains: No more than three (3) cremains shall be buried
per grave site. All such cremains shall be interred using a container of
concrete, steel, or plastic. All interments of cremains shall be made pursuant
to the regulations set forth within this code. (Ord. 377, 11-6-2023)
12-1-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Installing Improvements: It is unlawful for any person to install any
coping, walk or wall, however, this prohibition shall not apply to the city
where such improvements are necessary for the public good in maintaining the
cemetery.
   B.   Embellishments: The erection of monuments, tombstones, filling of
graves, improving, adorning and embellishing graves, or the marking thereof, by
private parties in the cemetery shall be done under the supervision of the
sexton and not otherwise, and no improvements shall be made and no erection of
monuments or marking of graves be had until all charges owing to the city on
the lot or lots to be improved, shall have been fully paid.
   C.   Operation Of Vehicles: It is unlawful for any person to drive any
automobile or other vehicle, for any purpose whatsoever off of designated
driving surfaces within the cemetery, without first having obtained permission
of the sexton so to do, and all vehicles driven into the cemetery shall be
subject to the orders and directions of the sexton, or other authorized officer
in charge of the cemetery.
   D.   Removal Of Decorations: The city, its agents, representatives or
employees may, one week following Memorial Day or other occasion when graves in
the cemetery may be decorated, remove and dispose of such decorations, other
than permanent plantings and potted flowers or plants placed upon grave markers
in a position where they do not interfere with the mowing or other maintenance
of the cemetery. (Ord. 377, 11-6-2023)
12-1-8: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby is guilty of a municipal offense
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished at the discretion of the judge
of the municipal court as provided in the general penalty provisions of this
City Code for violation of municipal ordinances. Each day upon which a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   B.   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to subsection A of this section
shall interfere with the right of the city also to apply to the proper courts
of the state for an injunction, writ of mandamus or other appropriate action
against such person. (Ord. 377, 11-6-2023)
