KELLYVILLE, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-005, Passed 4-8-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions and notes
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to statutes
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.20   Altering code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This code may be cited as the “Kellyville Town Code,” or another properly
identifying description. When a change or changes have been prepared and
inserted in the code, as provided herein below, the words “as amended” may be
added to the citation or title when referring to the code as amended.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code for the convenience of persons using
the code, and shall have no legal effect.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Town Board of Trustees of Kellyville.
      COUNTY. Creek County, Oklahoma.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the state constitution and
state statutes, the ordinances of the town and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, such as “Clerk-Treasurer,”
“Town Clerk-Treasurer,” “Town Attorney,” “Fire Chief,” “Police Chief” and the
like, they shall mean the officers, agencies or departments of the town.
      PERSON. Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates and
government agencies, except when a contrary intention plainly appears.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the state as they now
are or as they may be amended.
      STREET. Street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, highway,
court, place, square, curb or any other public way in the town which is
dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN, THIS TOWN or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Kellyville, Oklahoma.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the town include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the town include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed by the Town Board of
Trustees after this code goes into effect is invalid, all valid parts which are
severable from the invalid parts remain in effect.
   (B)   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed hereinafter is
invalid in one or more of its applications, the part remains in effect in all
valid applications which are severable from the invalid applications.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   Reference to the statutes of the state means the statutes as they are now or
as they may be amended, and a reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a certain
year also means the comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature passed prior to and in effect at the time the code is adopted, but not
included in the code, are hereby repealed as of the time when the code goes
into effect.
   (B)   Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed or
amended by the adoption of the code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.17 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case, all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance of the Town
Board of Trustees, as provided hereinafter.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any and all amendments are listed following
the text of the code section.
Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 1-402) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the Prior Code section number
shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, § 50.01).”
§ 10.20 ALTERING CODE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or
deletions any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the town to be misrepresented thereby.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 1-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code
or in any ordinance of the town an act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this code or
ordinance the doing of any act is required, or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 and/or 60 days imprisonment.
Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this code or of
any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Provided, however, that the fine and cost for such unlawful act or
offense shall not be greater than the maximum fine and cost established by
state statutes for the same offense.
      (3)   Provided further, that any conviction of an offense relating to
speeding or parking, shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding $200.
      (4)   Provided further, that any conviction of an offense relating to
speeding in excess of the posted speed limit by no more than ten mph upon any
portion of the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways, federal-aid
primary highways and the state highway system which are located on the
outskirts of any municipality, as determined by 47 O.S. § 2-117, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $10.
      (5)   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 1-108)
   (B)   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of
competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-109)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Ordinances in effect in outlying territory of town
   
11.02   Map of town designated as official map
§ 11.01 ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF TOWN.
   All ordinances of the town now in effect within the town are hereby extended
to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town outside
the corporate limits of the town, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar
as they are applicable. All ordinances of the town which shall go into effect
in the future, shall also apply to, and be in full effect within the boundaries
of all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in
any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited
to the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed to mean and include also
the outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-110)
§ 11.02 MAP OF TOWN DESIGNATED AS OFFICIAL MAP.
   The map of the town showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as
the official map of the town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the town, including all
annexations made to the town through and including the date of June 5, 2007.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   General powers
   
30.02   Board of Trustees
   
30.03   Meetings of the Board
   
30.04   Rules of order and procedure
   
30.05   Trustees may be designated to perform duties
   
30.06   Elections conducted by County Election Board
Mayor
   
30.20   Election and duties of the Mayor
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of 11 O.S. § 12-101, the town shall have
all the powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and immunities
granted or which may be granted to towns governed by the statutory Town Board
of Trustees form of government. These powers shall be exercised as provided by
law applicable to towns under the Board of Trustees form of government, or, if
the manner is not prescribed, then in such manner as the Board of Trustees may
prescribe.
   (B)   The powers, rights and authorities of the town, including the
determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in and exercised by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 30.02 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five members who shall be
nominated and elected at large without regard to their place of residence
within the corporate limits of the town. Trustees shall be actual residents and
registered voters of the town.
   (B)   The notice of election by the Board of Trustees calling for a general
or special election to fill the office of Trustee shall state the number of
Trustees to be elected for four-year terms and the number of Trustees to be
elected to fill unexpired terms, if any. Candidates for the office of Trustee
shall state on the declaration of candidacy the term of the office being
sought.
   (C)   The ballot shall state the number of offices of Trustee to be filled
for each designated term and that the voters shall vote for the number of
offices to be filled.
   (D)   The candidate who receives a plurality of the votes cast for the
office of Trustee for the designated term shall be elected for that designated
term. If more than one office of Trustee is to be filled for a designated term,
the candidates receiving the largest pluralities shall be elected to those
offices.
(Prior Code, § 2-102)
§ 30.03 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet regularly, on the second Tuesday of
each month at 7:00 p.m., and at such other times as it may prescribe by
ordinance, resolution or otherwise, at the Town Hall. Where the day for a
meeting falls upon a day which is a legal holiday in the state, the meeting
shall be held on the next succeeding day which is not a holiday. Special
meetings may be called by the Mayor or any three Trustees. A majority of all
the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from day to day.
   (B)   Every meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be held in the Town Hall
unless, in case of an emergency, the Mayor designates another place in the town
for the holding of a special meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held at any
other place within the town designated by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-103)
§ 30.04 RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board may determine its own rules and may compel the attendance of
absent members in the manner and under penalties as the Board may prescribe.
Whenever a Trustee is absent from more than one-half of all meetings of the
Board, regular and special, held within any period of four consecutive months,
he or she shall thereupon cease to hold office.
   (B)   The order of business for each meeting of the Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Determination of a quorum;
      (3)   Reading and approval of the minutes;
      (4)   Purchase order for approval;
      (5)   Old business;
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Business from the floor; and
      (8)   Adjournment.
    (C)   The following rules of procedure shall apply to any regular or
special meeting of the Board unless three Trustees agree to waive the rule or
rules.
      (1)   At the request of the Mayor or any Board member, all motions shall
be reduced to writing.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the Board shall
not be entertained unless it be made by a member who previously voted in the
majority.
      (3)   No motion shall be debated or put until it be seconded and stated
by the Mayor. It is then, and not until then, in possession of the Board and
cannot be withdrawn but by leave of the Board.
      (4)   (a)   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as
follows:
            1.   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
            2.   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
            3.   When the previous question has been ordered; or
            4.   While a vote is being taken.
         (b)   A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which
the meeting is adjourned.
      (5)   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but:
to adjourn; to lay on the table; for the previous question; to postpone to a
day certain; to commit; to amend; or to postpone indefinitely, which several
motions shall have precedence in the order they stand arranged.
      (6)   When a proper motion is made, but information is wanted, the motion
is to postpone to a day certain.
      (7)   Matters claiming present attention for which it is desired to
reserve for more suitable occasion, the order is a motion to lay on the table;
the matter may then be called for at any time. If the proposition may need
further consideration at the hands of a committee, the motion is to refer to a
committee, but if it need but a few and simple amendments, the Board shall
proceed to consider and amend at once.
      (8)   On an amendment’s being moved, a member who has spoken on the main
question may speak again to the amendment.
      (9)   The question is to be put first on the affirmative and then on the
negative side. After the affirmative part of the question has been put, any
member who has not spoken before to the question may arise and speak before the
negative be put.
      (10)   When a question has been moved and seconded and has been put by
the presiding officer in the affirmative and negative, it cannot be debated
unless under motion for reconsideration.
(Prior Code, § 2-104)
§ 30.05 TRUSTEES MAY BE DESIGNATED TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees may designate various ones of its members or a
committee of its members to have supervision of various personnel and
activities of the town, such as streets, water systems and so on, and may give
each such Trustee or committee designated an appropriate title. Each such
Trustee or committee so designated shall be subordinate to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-105)
§ 30.06 ELECTIONS CONDUCTED BY COUNTY ELECTION BOARD.
   (A)   Pursuant to 11 O.S. § 16-302, the town hereby declares that it shall
not be governed by the state’s Town Meeting Act, being 11 O.S. §§ 16-301 et
seq. as a means of electing its officers and deciding initiative and referendum
questions.
   (B)   The town shall hereby elect its officers and decide initiative and
referendum questions through elections conducted by the County Election Board
pursuant to 11 O.S. §§ 16-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-106)
MAYOR
§ 30.20 ELECTION AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall elect from among its members a
Mayor. The Mayor shall be elected in each odd-numbered year at the first Board
of Trustees meeting held after Trustee terms begin, or as soon thereafter as
practicable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall serve until his or her successor has been elected
and qualified.
   (B)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board and shall certify to
the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He or
she shall be recognized as head of the town government for all ceremonial
purposes and shall have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance. The Mayor shall have all the powers, rights,
duties and responsibilities of a Trustee, including the right to vote on
questions.
   (C)   During the absence, disability or suspension of the Mayor, the Board
shall elect from among its members an acting Mayor. When a vacancy occurs in
the office of the Mayor, the Board shall elect another Mayor from among its
members to serve for the duration of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.02   Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.03   Duties as Treasurer
   
31.04   Town Attorney
   
31.05   Health Officer
   
31.06   Other personnel, appointments, removals
   
31.07   Bonds
   
31.08   Salaries and compensation
   
31.09   Oaths
   
31.10   Officers to continue until successors are elected and qualify
   
31.11   Appointment of personnel in emergencies
   
31.12   Town Administrator
   
31.13   Town Administrator duties
§ 31.01 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be appointed to office at a regular
scheduled meeting by a majority vote of all the members of the Town Board of
Trustees. Removal from office shall be in the same manner. The Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the Board;
      (2)   Enroll in a book kept for that purpose all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the Board;
      (3)   Have custody of documents, records and archives as may be provided
by law or ordinance and have custody of the Town Seal;
      (4)   Attest and affix the seal of the town to documents as required by
law or ordinance;
      (5)   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
moneys paid to him or her have been derived and to whom and when any moneys
have been paid;
      (6)   Deposit daily funds received for the town in depositories as the
Board may designate; and
      (7)   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed
by law or ordinance.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s books and accounts shall at all times be subject
to examination by the Board.
   (C)   When the words “Clerk-Treasurer” or “Town Clerk-Treasurer” are used in
this code or in other ordinances of the town, they shall be deemed to mean the
Town Clerk-Treasurer or Deputy Town Clerk-Treasurer unless another meaning is
clearly indicated by the context.
   (D)   In accordance with 11 O.S. § 8-106, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall the
authority, to appoint one or more Deputy Clerk-Treasurers, subject to
confirmation by the Board of Trustees. Deputy Clerk-Treasurers may be removed
by the Board of Trustees at regular meetings and such a Clerk-Treasurer may
hold more than one office or position in the town government as the Board of
Trustees may ordain.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
§ 31.02 DEPUTY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The office of Deputy Clerk-Treasurer is established for the purpose of
aiding and assisting the Town Clerk-Treasurer of the town who has need of an
assistant.
   (B)   The Deputy Clerk-Treasurer be appointed as a substitute with power to
act, become an assistant or a second in command, perform all duties of the
office of Town Clerk-Treasurer and take charge of the office of Town Clerk-
Treasurer when the Town Clerk-Treasurer is absent.
   (C)   The Deputy Clerk-Treasurer will do all things in the name of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-302)
§ 31.03 DUTIES AS TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   As Treasurer, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall:
         (a)   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source
all moneys paid to him or her have been derived and to whom and when any moneys
have been paid;
         (b)   Deposit daily funds received for the town in depositories as the
Board may designate; and
         (c)   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s books and accounts shall always be subject to
examination by the Board.
   (B)   When the words “Treasurer” or “Clerk-Treasurer” are used in this code
or in other ordinances of the town, they shall be deemed to mean the Town
Clerk-Treasurer or the Deputy Town Clerk-Treasurer unless another meaning is
clearly indicated by the context.
   (C)   In accordance with 11 O.S. § 8-106, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
have the authority to appoint one or more Deputy Treasurers, subject to
confirmation by the Board of Trustees. Deputy Treasurers may be removed by the
Board of Trustees at a regular meeting and such a Clerk-Treasurer may hold more
than one office or position in the town government as the Board of Trustees may
ordain.
(Prior Code, § 2-303)
§ 31.04 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Attorney or may secure the services
of an attorney or attorneys on a contractual basis when needed. The Town
Attorney, when and if appointed, shall be the legal adviser of the Board, all
officers, departments and agencies of the town government in matters relating
to their official powers and duties. He or she shall represent the town in
proceedings in the courts. He or she shall perform all services incident to his
or her position which may be required by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-304)
§ 31.05 HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Health Officer. The county health
officer or any qualified personnel of the State Department of Health may
perform the duties and functions of a Town Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 2-305)
§ 31.06 OTHER PERSONNEL, APPOINTMENTS, REMOVALS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may appoint such other officers and employees as
it deems desirable and may determine their compensation by motion or resolution
and may demote, suspend, lay off or remove all such personnel in compliance
with due process and other requirements of law.
   (B)   An employee or officer who, after a probationary period as set by the
Town Board, is laid off, suspended without pay for more than ten days, demoted
or removed shall receive, at the time of the action or within two days
thereafter, by personal delivery or by registered, certified or similar special
mail, a written statement of the reason or reasons for the layoff, suspension,
demotion or removal. Such officer or employee may appeal in writing to the Town
Board. The appeal must be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer for transmittal
to the Board within ten days after receipt of the notice of the layoff,
suspension, demotion or removal. As soon as practicable thereafter, the Board
shall conduct a hearing on the appeal, or give an adequate opportunity
therefor, and shall report in writing its findings and recommendations and make
its final decision in writing regarding the appellant’s layoff, suspension,
demotion or removal. If the Board finds that the layoff, suspension, demotion
and removal was made for any reason other than the good of the service, it
shall veto the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal and order the
reinstatement of the employee or officer. Any proceedings of the Board shall be
subject to open meeting laws and applicable exceptions provided for executive
sessions. Employees or officers on probationary status may be laid off,
suspended without pay, demoted or removed at any time without the written
statement, hearings and procedures required in this section.
(Prior Code, § 2-306)
§ 31.07 BONDS.
   The Board shall require the Town Clerk-Treasurer and any other officers and
employees as it may designate by ordinance or otherwise to give bond for the
faithful performance of duties in such amount and form as the Board shall
prescribe. The town shall pay the premiums on such bonds. The town may require
the officer to secure the bond within ten days after his or her election or
appointment.
(Prior Code, § 2-307)
§ 31.08 SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Elective town officers. The compensation of all elective town
officers, including the following, shall be fixed by ordinance:
      (1)   Mayor;
      (2)   Each Trustee; and
      (3)   Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-308)
   (B)   Compensation of employees. number and classes of personnel.
      (1)   The compensation of all other officers and employees excepting
those whose compensation the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be
determined by motion or resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees and may be
changed at any time in the same manner.
      (2)   Except as the law provides otherwise, the Board of Trustees may
determine or regulate the number and classes of officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-309)
   (C)   Salaries of certain officers not to be changed after election or
appointment. In no case shall the salary or emoluments of any town officer
elected or appointed for a definite term, be changed after his or her election
or appointment or during his or her term of office unless by operation of an
ordinance passed prior to such election or appointment, such being prohibited
by the Constitution, Article 23, § 10. This provision shall not apply to
officers chosen for indefinite terms nor to employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-310)
§ 31.09 OATHS.
   All officers of the town, but not employees, are required to take the oath
or affirmation of office prescribed by the state Constitution before they enter
upon their duties. Both officers and employees are currently required to take
and subscribe to the loyalty oath prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-311)
§ 31.10 OFFICERS TO CONTINUE UNTIL SUCCESSORS ARE ELECTED AND QUALIFY.
   Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term, shall
continue to serve thereafter until his or her successor is elected or appointed
and qualifies, unless his or her services are sooner terminated by resignation,
disqualification, removal, death, abolition of the office or other legal
manner.
(Prior Code, § 2-312)
§ 31.11 APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor may, in an emergency, appoint such other officers and
employees as he or she may deem necessary to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town during the existence of the emergency,
subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees as soon as a special meeting
or regular meeting can reasonably be called or held therefor. The Board of
Trustees may determine the compensation of such emergency employees by motion
or resolution and may direct the demotion, layoff or removal of such personnel
at the conclusion of such emergency.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, EMERGENCY shall be defined to mean an
unexpected or unforeseen contingency or catastrophic event affecting the
health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-313)
§ 31.12 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Administrator for an
indefinite term by a vote of a majority of all its members. It shall choose the
Town Administrator solely on the basis of executive and administrative
qualifications with special reference to the actual experience in, or the
knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the duties of the office.
   (B)   The Town Administrator shall be the head of the municipal government
and any public trust of the town, under the direction and supervision of the
Board of Trustees, and he or she shall receive such compensation as may be
provided by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-314)
§ 31.13 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES.
   The Town Administrator shall be the chief executive officer and head of the
administrative branch of the town government and the town’s Public Works
Authority. He or she shall execute the laws and administer the government of
the town and shall be responsible therefor to the Board of Trustees. He or she
shall:
   (A)   Recommend the appointment, and when necessary for the good of the
service, recommend removal, demotion, lay off or suspension of all heads of
administrative departments and other administrative officers and employees of
the town except as otherwise provided by law. Except as restricted herein, the
Town Administrator may shall have disciplinary authority over the employees of
the town and the town’s Public Works Authority;
   (B)   To exercise control over all departments and divisions and the
employees thereof created herein or that hereafter may be created by the Board
of Trustees;
   (C)   To have general supervision over all public improvements, works and
undertakings, except as otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees;
   (D)   To prepare the annual budget and keep the Board of Trustees fully
advised as to the financial condition of the town;
   (E)   To attend all regular meetings of the Board of Trustees with the right
to take part in the discussions, but having no vote;
   (F)   To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
   (G)   To recommend to the Board of Trustees for their adoption such measures
as he or she may deem necessary or expedient; and
   (H)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by state and federal
laws or regulations and such duties as may be required of him or her by
ordinances or direction of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-315)
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
32.01   Organization of court
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Jurisdiction of court
   
32.04   Judge; qualifications, term
   
32.05   Alternate judge
   
32.06   Acting judge
   
32.07   Appointment of judge and alternate judge
   
32.08   Salary and payments to judges
   
32.09   Removal of judge
   
32.10   Vacancy in office of judge
   
32.11   Disqualification of judge
   
32.12   Court martial
   
32.13   Clerk of the court; duties
   
32.14   Prosecuting attorney; duties; conflict of interest
   
32.15   Bond of clerk
   
32.16   Rules of court
   
32.17   Enforcement of rules
   
32.18   Written complaints to prosecute ordinance violations
   
32.19   Traffic ordinance violations; procedures for issuing citation; custody;
arrest
   
32.20   Traffic Violations Bureau
   
32.21   Summons for arrest
   
32.22   Form of arrest warrant
   
32.23   Procedure for bail or bond
   
32.24   Traffic bail bond procedures
   
32.25   Arraignment and pleadings by defendant
   
32.26   Sentencing
   
32.27   Imprisonment, work by prisoners
   
32.28   Fines and costs
   
32.29   Penalty assessments
§ 32.01 ORGANIZATION OF COURT.
   [Missing text]
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
   CLERK. The Court Clerk of this municipality.
   COURT. The municipal court of the Town of Kellyville.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Town Board of Trustees of the Town of Kellyville.
   JUDGE. The judge of the municipal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
   JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The district court judicial district of the state wherein
the government of this municipality is situated.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Kellyville, Oklahoma.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 32.03 JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance
with applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
§ 32.04 JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS, TERM.
   (A)   Qualifications.
      (1)   There shall be one judge of the court. A judge shall be an attorney
licensed to practice law in the state. A judge who is a licensed attorney may
engage in the practice of law in other courts, but he or she shall not accept
employment inconsistent with his or her duties as judge, or arising out of
facts which give rise to or are connected with cases within the jurisdiction of
the court, pending therein or which might become the subject of proceedings
therein, he or she must be a resident of this county or maintain a law office
therein, he or she may serve as judge of other municipal courts, if such
service may be accomplished consistently with his or her duties as judge of
this court, with the consent of the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
      (2)   If all licensed attorneys residing within this county certify to
the clerk that they are not willing to accept appointment as judge, a resident
of this municipality, of the age of 25 years or older, possessed of good moral
character, may be appointed judge.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
   (B)   Term. The official term of the judge shall be two years, expiring each
odd-numbered year. Each judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall
serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 6-105)
§ 32.05 ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   There shall be appointed for each judge of the court an alternate judge
possessed of the same qualifications required of the judge in this chapter. His
or her appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as
the judge, and he or she shall sit as acting judge of the court in any case if
the judge is:
   (A)   Absent from the court;
   (B)   Unable to act as judge; or
   (C)   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
§ 32.06 ACTING JUDGE.
   If at any time there is no judge or alternate judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as judge, the Mayor shall appoint some person,
possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the judge, who shall
preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition of pending matters
until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be available.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)
§ 32.07 APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE AND ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   Judges and alternate judges shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
consent of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in
writing to the governing body at the next to the last regularly scheduled
meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take effect and shall
be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The governing body may
decide upon the proposed appointment by a majority vote of a quorum present and
acting.
   (B)   Failure of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent
action thereon at a later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body
unless the Mayor, in writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
§ 32.08 SALARY AND PAYMENTS TO JUDGES.
   A judge, other than an alternate judge or an acting judge, shall receive a
salary as set by the governing body by motion or resolution, paid in the same
manner as the salaries of other officials of this municipality. An alternate
judge or an acting judge shall be paid an amount as set by motion or resolution
of the governing body, however, payments to an acting or alternate judge shall
not exceed the salary set for a judge in whose stead he or she sits.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
§ 32.09 REMOVAL OF JUDGE.
   (A)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing body
for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of this state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
      (1)   The Mayor; or
      (2)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of this municipality.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
   (B)   The governing body shall set a date for bearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten days before the hearing. At the hearing,
the judge shall be entitled to:
      (1)   Representation by counsel;
      (2)   Present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against him or
her; and
      (3)   Have all evidence against him or her presented in open hearing.
   (C)   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the State
Administrative Procedures Act governing individual proceedings (75 O.S. §§ 309
through 317, as amended) shall govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment
of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by a majority of all
members of the governing body, in favor of such removal.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
§ 32.10 VACANCY IN OFFICE OF JUDGE.
   (A)   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      (1)   Dies;
      (2)   Resigns;
      (3)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      (4)   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as
an original appointment is made.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)
§ 32.11 DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.
   In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed; but
the judge before whom the case is pending may certify his or her
disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from sitting under the terms,
conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is
disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an alternate or acting judge
appointed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)
§ 32.12 COURT MARTIAL.
   All writs or process of the court shall be directed, in his or her official
title, to the Chief of Police of this municipality, who shall be the principal
officer of the court.
(Prior Code, § 6-113)
§ 32.13 CLERK OF THE COURT; DUTIES.
   The clerk, or a deputy designated by him or her, shall be the clerk of the
court. He or she shall assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the
court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. He or she shall
administer oaths required in proceedings before the court. He or she shall
enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the court. He
or she shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the judge shall direct. He or she shall receive and receipt for
forfeitures, fines, deposits and sums of money payable to the court. He or she
shall pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer all money so received by him or her,
except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by
him or her for special purposes. All money paid to the Clerk-Treasurer shall be
placed in the General Fund of the municipality, or in such other funds as the
governing body may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the
municipal government in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the
fund in which it is placed.
(Prior Code, § 6-114)
§ 32.14 PROSECUTING ATTORNEY; DUTIES; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   The attorney for this municipality, or his or her duly designated assistant,
shall be the prosecuting officer of the court. He or she shall also prosecute
all alleged violations of the ordinances of the town. He or she shall be
authorized, in his or her discretion to prosecute and resist appeal,
proceedings in error and review from this court to any other court of the
state, and to represent this municipality in all proceedings arising out of
matters in this court.
(Prior Code, § 6-115)
§ 32.15 BOND OF CLERK.
   The court clerk shall give bond, in the form provided by 11 O.S. § 27-111.
When executed, the bond shall be submitted to the governing body for approval.
When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of this municipality
and retained in the municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 6-116)
§ 32.16 RULES OF COURT.
   The judge may prescribe rules consistent with the laws of the state and with
the ordinances of this municipality for the proper conduct of the business of
the court.
(Prior Code, § 6-117)
§ 32.17 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the judge or by the
court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed as to him or her while holding court or committed against process
issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the same extent as the district
courts of this state.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)
§ 32.18 WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of this municipality shall be
styled “The Town of Kellyville vs. (naming defendant or defendants).” Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing by the Town
Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)
§ 32.19 TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES FOR ISSUING CITATION; CUSTODY;
ARREST.
   (A)   If a police officer observes facts which he or she believes constitute
a violation of the traffic ordinances of this municipality, committed by a
resident thereof, in lieu of arresting such a person, he or she may take his or
her name, address, operator’s license number and registered license number of
the motor vehicle involved and any other pertinent and necessary information
and may issue him or her in writing in form prescribed by the Mayor or his or
her duly designated delegate, a traffic citation embracing the above
information, and also stating the traffic violation alleged to have occurred,
and notifying him or her to answer to the charge against him or her at a time,
not later than the date specified in the citation. The officer, upon receiving
the written promise of the alleged violator, endorsed on the citation to answer
as specified, may then release the person from custody. If the person to whom a
citation is issued fails to answer as prescribed in the citation, a complaint
shall be filed and the case shall be prosecuted as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident or
resident of this municipality, the police officer may:
      (1)   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set
out in division (A) above, pending his or her appearance on a day certain in
court, as specified in the citation and §
32.24;
      (2)   Take the person in custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his or her release in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon
giving his or her written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in
division (A) above, the person shall be released from custody.
   (C)   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in divisions
(A) or (B) above, with such variation as the circumstances require, the
operator of this vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him or her personally under divisions (A)
or (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-120)
§ 32.20 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Traffic Violations Bureau for the town.
The judge may establish rules, consistent with the laws of the state and with
the ordinances of this municipality, for the Traffic Violations Bureau.
   (B)   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall be staffed by court personnel and
be physically separate and apart from the Police Department.
   (C)   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall accept fines which may be paid in
lieu of a court appearance for such traffic offenses as may be designated by
the judge under the court’s rules. The schedule of fines shall be adopted by
the governing body from time to time by motion or resolution. A copy shall be
kept in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (D)   All such fines shall be the minimum penalty prescribed for such
violation, and no costs shall be assessed.
   (E)   In no event shall payment of a fine without court appearance be
accepted in the Traffic Violations Bureau for the following offenses:
      (1)   A second or subsequent offense of the same violation;
      (2)   Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs or
actual physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs;
      (3)   Leaving the scene of an accident;
      (4)   Driving while license is suspended or revoked;
      (5)   Reckless driving;
      (6)   Careless driving; or
      (7)   Any charge made because of a motor vehicle accident in which
personal injury or death occurred.
   (F)   (1)   Payment of any fine to the Traffic Violations Bureau shall be
deemed a final determination of the cause against the defendant.
      (2)   In no event shall any such payment be introduced as evidence in any
civil cause arising out of the offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 6-121)
§ 32.21 SUMMONS FOR ARREST.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance,
the judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless
the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and
has given bond for appearance, he or she shall issue a summons, naming the
person charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known,
stating the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her
notice to answer the charge in the court on a certain day as specified after
the summons is served upon him or her, and including such other pertinent
information as may be necessary.
   (B)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as provided
by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-122)
§ 32.22 FORM OF ARREST WARRANT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this municipality,
upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the attorney of
this municipality or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest,
in substantially the following form.
 
The Town of Kellyville to the Marshal of the Municipal Court of Kellyville, Oklahoma.
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the offense
(naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been committed and accusing (name
of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor forthwith to arrest the above named
defendant and bring the above named (name of defendant) before me, at the municipal
courtroom.
Witness my hand this        day of        20        .
                                             
Judge of the Municipal Court
Kellyville, Oklahoma.
 
   (B)   It is the duty of the Marshal, personally, or through a duly
constituted member of the police force of this municipality, or through any
other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as
possible.
(Prior Code, § 6-123)
§ 32.23 PROCEDURE FOR BAIL OR BOND.
   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, or at any time before trial, before or after an arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his or her
appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the judge,
who shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail. In case
of arrests made at night or under other conditions or emergency or when the
judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the Chief of Police, or his
or her designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond of not less
than $10 nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for
the offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 6-124)
§ 32.24 TRAFFIC BAIL BOND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person,
whether a resident of this state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law
or municipal traffic ordinance shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
      (1)   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a participant of the nonresident violator compact or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      (2)   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      (3)   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation; and
      (4)   The violation does not constitute:
         (a)   A felony;
         (b)   Negligent homicide;
         (c)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         (d)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         (e)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver’s license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         (f)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         (g)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in divisions
(A)(4)(a) through (A)(4)(f) above;
         (h)   An overweight violation or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         (i)   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   (B)   (1)   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in division (A) above, then the arresting officer
shall:
         (a)   Designate the traffic charge;
         (b)   Record information from the arrested person’s driver’s license
on the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver’s license, driver’s license number, issuing state
and expiration date;
         (c)   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         (d)   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         (e)   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear
as provided for in the citation.
      (2)   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person’s driver’s license in this state, or in
the nonresident’s home state pursuant to the nonresident violator compact.
   (C)   The court, or the court clerk as directed by the court, may continue
or reschedule the date and time of arraignment upon request of the arrested
person or his or her attorney. If the arraignment is continued or rescheduled,
the arrested person shall remain on personal recognizance and written promise
to appear until such arraignment, in the same manner and with the same
consequences as if the continued or rescheduled arraignment was entered on the
citation by the arresting officer and signed by the defendant. An arraignment
may be continued or rescheduled more than one time; provided, however, that the
court shall require an arraignment to be had within a reasonable time. It shall
remain the duty of the defendant to appear for arraignment unless the citation
is satisfied as provided for in division (D) below. Procedures for arraignment,
continuances and scheduling, timely appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo
contendere, posting bail, payment of fines and costs, issuance of arrest
warrants and requests for suspension of driver’s license, shall be required by
the municipality or as provided in state law (22 O.S. §§ 1115.1 through
1115.5).
   (D)   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he or she is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the
copy of the citation furnished to him or her or on a legible copy thereof,
together with the date of the plea and his or her signature. The defendant
shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the
court clerk. Payment of the fine and costs may be made by personal, cashier’s,
traveler’s, certified or guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial money
order or other form of payment approved by the court in the amount prescribed
as bail for the offense. However, the defendant shall not use currency for
payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere, as provided for in this division (D), such plea shall be accepted
by the court, and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as prescribed by
ordinance for the violation charged or as prescribed by the court or, in the
absence of such ordinance, in the amount prescribed by the court.
   (E)   (1)   If, pursuant to the provisions of division (D) above, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant and the municipal or district court clerk, within
120 calendar days from the date the citation was issued by the arresting
officer, shall notify the State Department of Public Safety that:
         (a)   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         (b)   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         (c)   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         (d)   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      (2)   The court clerk shall request the State Department of Public Safety
to either suspend the defendant’s driver’s license to operate a motor vehicle
in this state or notify the defendant’s home state and request suspension of
the defendant’s driver’s license in accordance with the provisions of the
nonresident violator compact. Such notice and request shall be on a form
approved or furnished by the State Department of Public Safety. The court clerk
shall not process the notification and request provided for in this division
(E)(2) if, with respect to such charges:
         (a)   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed or otherwise settled the case;
         (b)   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         (c)   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         (d)   A period of 120 calendar days or more has elapsed from the date
the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   (F)   The court clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driver’s
license suspension submitted to the State Department of Public Safety pursuant
to the provisions of this section. When the court or court clerk receives
appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes
other arrangements with the defendant or otherwise closes the case, the court
clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the defendant
personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or at such other
address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court or court
clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the
citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator compact,
and shall, in all other cases, notify the State Department of Public Safety of
the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the State Department of Public Safety;
provided, however, that the court or court clerk’s failure to furnish such
proof or notice in the manner provided for in this division (F) shall in no
event create any civil liability upon the court, the court clerk, the state or
any political subdivision thereof or any state department or agency, or any
employee thereof, but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled
thereto upon request.
(Prior Code, § 6-125)
§ 32.25 ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT.
   Upon making his or her appearance before the court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The judge, or the attorney of the municipality, shall read the
complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights,
including the right of trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of
conviction, and ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty.
If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to judgment and sentence
or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is not
guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the court may proceed to try the
case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, § 6-126)
§ 32.26 SENTENCING.
   (A)   The judge may suspend, modify, defer or reduce a sentence in
accordance with 11 O.S. §§ 27-123 and 27-124.
   (B)   A judge who is licensed to practice law in this state in imposing a
judgment and sentence, at his or her discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce
or suspend or defer the imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to
authorize probation for a period not to exceed six months from the date of
sentence, under such terms or conditions as the judge may specify. Procedures
relating to suspension of the judgment or costs or both shall be as provided in
11 O.S. § 27-123. Upon completion of the probation term, the defendant shall be
discharged without a court judgment of guilt, and the verdict, judgment of
guilty or pleas of guilty shall be expunged from the record and the charge
dismissed with prejudice to any further action. Upon a finding of the court
that the conditions of probation have been violated, the municipal judge may
enter a judgment of guilty. The judge may continue or delay imposing a judgment
and sentence for a period of time not to exceed six months from the date of
sentence. At the expiration of such period of time, the judge may allow the
municipal attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense. If a deferred
sentence is imposed, a deferral fee in lieu of a fine may be imposed in an
amount not to exceed the maximum amount which may be imposed as a fine for such
offense. Costs and state-imposed assessments or fees may be imposed in addition
to the deferral fee provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-127)
§ 32.27 IMPRISONMENT, WORK BY PRISONERS.
   (A)   If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy
thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be delivered to the Chief of Police, the
Sheriff of the county or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   (B)   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may
be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public streets, avenues,
alleys, parks, buildings or other public premises or property. For each day of
such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving two days of imprisonment
under his or her sentence.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, subject to the direction of the governing body,
shall direct where the work shall he or she performed. The head of the
department in charge of the place where the work is to be performed, himself or
herself, or by some person designated by him or her, shall oversee the work. If
a guard is necessary, the Chief of Police shall make provision therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6-128)
§ 32.28 FINES AND COSTS.
   (A)   If judgment of conviction is entered or in any case wherein court
costs are assessed, the clerk of the court shall tax the costs to the defendant
in the sum of $30 plus the fees, additional subpoena costs and mileage of
jurors and witnesses, all of which the defendant shall pay, in addition to any
fine that may be imposed by the court, and in addition to any costs, fees or
charges imposed by state law.
   (B)   A municipal court technology fee shall be and is hereby established in
the amount of $10. The fee shall be in addition to and not in substitution for
any and all costs, fees, fines or penalties otherwise provided for by law and
assessed on every citation disposed of in the municipal court except those that
are voided, declined for prosecution, dismissed without costs or the defendant
is acquitted. The revenues generated by this fee shall be used solely and
exclusively for the acquisition, operation, maintenance, repair and replacement
of data processing equipment and software related to the administration of the
municipal criminal justice system and the costs of municipal jail.
   (C)   In addition to any fine and court costs above provided, the court
clerk shall tax and collect from the defendant, the fees and mileage of
witnesses and jurors.
   (D)   A collection fee of 35% of court penalties, cost fines and fees in
cases in which the accused has failed to appear or otherwise failed to satisfy
a monetary obligation imposed by the court shall be added to any such case
which is referred to a collection agency for collection.
(Prior Code, § 6-129) (Ord. 2021-002, passed 2-9-2021; Ord. 2023-005, passed 3-
14-2023)
§ 32.29 PENALTY ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Any person convicted of an offense punishable by a fine of $10 or more
or by imprisonment, excluding parking and standing violations, or forfeiting
bond when charged with such an offense under this division (A), shall pay a sum
as set by state law as a separate penalty assessment for law enforcement
training, and as a separate fingerprinting fee, which shall be in addition to
and not in substitution for any and all fines and penalties and costs otherwise
provided for such offense. The court shall provide for separate bail for the
assessments; however, a defendant admitted to bail on an undertaking by a
surety may include the amount of the assessment in the undertaking.
   (B)   Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the court shall collect the
assessment and deposit the moneys for payment as required by state law.
   (C)   At the end of every quarter the town shall deposit with the State
Treasury the funds deposited in the law enforcement training funds and the
A.F.I.S. (automated fingerprint identification system) Fund as required by law.
The court clerk shall also furnish to the State Treasury reports required on
the funds collected and penalty assessments imposed each quarter.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, CONVICTION means any final
adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment.
(Prior Code, § 6-131)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Police Department created; Chief
   
33.02   Duties
   
33.03   Police officers
   
33.04   Auxiliary police force
   
33.05   Service by police officers outside the town
Civil Defense
   
33.20   Purpose of civil defense organization
   
33.21   Department established
   
33.22   Duties of Director
   
33.23   Power of Director in emergencies
   
33.24   Compensation of members
Fire Department
   
33.35   Fire Department created; Chief
   
33.36   Volunteer department; number of firefighters
   
33.37   Fire Chief
   
33.38   Assistant Chief
   
33.39   Company officers
   
33.40   Secretary-Treasurer
   
33.41   New members
   
33.42   Bylaws
   
33.43   Duties
   
33.44   Rules and regulations
   
33.45   Answering calls outside limits
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF.
   There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of Police
or Police Chief, appointed by the Town Board of Trustees and removable by the
Board. The Chief of Police is an officer of the town and has supervision and
control of the Police Department. All police officers are officers of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-201)
§ 33.02 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Police Department to apprehend and arrest on view or
on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the town; to
suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to its
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions and other processes properly directed and delivered to the
Department; to apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as
provided by law, and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all
respects to perform all duties pertaining to the offices of police officers.
The Police Department has charge of and operates the town jail.
(Prior Code, § 13-202)
§ 33.03 POLICE OFFICERS.
   Police officers shall be appointed subject to approval of the Town Board of
Trustees who shall perform such duties as shall be required of them by the
Chief of Police, town ordinances, federal, state and county regulations and any
other actions required in the maintenance of good order and public peace.
(Prior Code, § 13-203)
§ 33.04 AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of assisting the regularly constituted law enforcement
officers of the town, the establishment, organization and operation of an
auxiliary police force for the town is hereby authorized and directed.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of the town shall, as soon as practicable,
hereafter promulgate rules and regulations for the organization, operation and
maintenance of the auxiliary police force authorized in division (A) above.
When such rules and regulations are fixed by the Board of Trustees, they shall
be reduced to writing and the same shall thereupon govern the membership, dues
and functions of such auxiliary police force.
   (C)   The Chief of Police of the town is hereby given authority over the
auxiliary police force authorized by this chapter and the members thereof. His
or her decisions in all matters shall be subject to review by the Town Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   The members of the town auxiliary police force shall be selected by
the Board of Trustees of the town, acting upon the recommendation of the Chief
of Police. The Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to issue special
officer’s commissions to the members of such auxiliary police force, but
members of said auxiliary police force shall not be authorized to act as police
or peace officers except in accordance with the declaration of an emergency in
accordance with the provisions of 63 O.S. §§ 683.1 et seq., as amended.
   (E)   While upon active duty, the members of the auxiliary police force,
holding special officer’s commission, are hereby authorized to make arrests for
violation of the provisions of this code and other laws and regulations of the
town.
   (F)   Members of the auxiliary police force of the town shall serve without
compensation and shall not be considered members of the Police Department of
the town, and they shall not, under any conditions, become eligible for a
pension from the police and retirement fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-204)
§ 33.05 SERVICE BY POLICE OFFICERS OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   Members of the Police Department may, upon request of the County Sheriff, or
his or her designee, or a member of the State Highway Patrol, serve as law
enforcement officers for the Sheriff’s office or the State Highway Patrol,
respectively.
(Prior Code, § 13-205)
CIVIL DEFENSE
§ 33.20 PURPOSE OF CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   A civil defense organization is created for the town to carry out
preparations for and to function in the event of emergencies endangering the
lives and property of the people of the town.
   (B)   The duties of the civil defense organization are the protection of the
lives and health of the citizens and of property and property rights, both
private and public and performance of all functions necessary and incident
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 13-301)
§ 33.21 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government a
Department of Civil Defense which shall consist of:
   (A)   A Director of Civil Defense, who shall be appointed and may be the
Chief of Police, removed with or without cause by the Mayor; and
   (B)   A civil defense advisory committee. This committee shall consist of
the Mayor as Chairperson and members appointed by the Town Board of Trustees.
The committee shall select from its members a Vice Chairperson and secretary.
It shall hold such meetings as are directed by the Mayor and its function shall
be to act in an advisory capacity as needed or requested by the Mayor or the
Director of Civil Defense.
(Prior Code, § 13-302)
§ 33.22 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Civil Defense shall be the executive head of the Department
of Civil Defense and shall be responsible for carrying out the civil defense
program of the town. He or she shall serve without compensation but may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties. It
shall be the duty of the Director of Civil Defense as soon as practicable after
his or her appointment to perfect an organization to carry out the purposes set
forth in this chapter, and he or she shall have all necessary power and
authority to form committees or other bodies and to appoint and designate the
Chairperson or chief officer of such bodies as may be necessary to perfect such
an organization. He or she shall have further duty and responsibility to
cooperate with all civil defense agencies of other governmental units,
including the state and the federal government. The Director of Civil Defense
is further authorized to formulate written plans and gather information and
keep written record thereof to govern the functions of the civil defense
organization.
(Prior Code, § 13-303)
§ 33.23 POWER OF DIRECTOR IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Director of Civil Defense, after due authorization from the
Mayor, shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations
relating to civil defense and, if necessary, take control of transportation,
communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine and public utilities
for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He or she shall
cooperate in every way with the activities of other governmental agencies of
civil defense organizations. If required by the Mayor, the Director shall have
control over any and all funds allocated from any source for the purpose of
alleviating distress conditions in the town.
   (B)   The Director of Civil Defense and other members of the civil defense
organization created by him or her shall have the power and authority to
enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the town during the period of
emergency and shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for
violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 13-304)
§ 33.24 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   All members of the civil defense organization created in this chapter shall
serve without compensation. The town shall not be liable for any personal or
bodily injury received by any member of such organization while acting in the
line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 13-305)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.35 FIRE DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF.
   There is a Fire Department, the head of which is the Chief of the Fire
Department or Fire Chief, appointed by the Town Board of Trustees, and
removable by the Board. The Chief of the Fire Department is an officer of the
town and has supervision and control of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-401)
§ 33.36 VOLUNTEER DEPARTMENT; NUMBER OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   The Fire Department of the town is a volunteer Fire Department which
has in its employ not more than two full-time salaried firefighters, and not
less than 12 or more than 20 volunteer firefighters.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, a volunteer firefighter shall be
considered as one who is enrolled as a member of the Fire Department and who
serves in that capacity without receiving a regular salary.
(Prior Code, § 13-402)
§ 33.37 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief is at the head of the Department, subject to the laws of the
state, ordinances of this town and the rules and regulations herein adopted.
The Chief shall be held responsible for the general condition and efficient
operation of the Department, the training of members and the performance of all
other duties imposed upon him or her. He or she shall have the following
duties:
   (A)   To inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the Department the
fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at least twice each
year to determine their readiness and availability for firefighting;
   (B)   To maintain a library or file of publications on fire prevention and
fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage of all members;
   (C)   To make every effort to attend all fires and direct the officers and
members in the performance of their duties;
   (D)   To see that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the
community and on the activities of the Department; and
   (E)   To see that each fire is carefully investigated to determine its
cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism shall notify proper
authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use in the
case.
(Prior Code, § 13-403)
§ 33.38 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on duty shall command the
Department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 13-404)
§ 33.39 COMPANY OFFICERS.
   The company officers shall be selected upon their ability to meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   Their knowledge of firefighting;
   (B)   Their leadership ability; and
   (C)   Their knowledge of firefighting equipment.
(Prior Code, § 13-405)
§ 33.40 SECRETARY-TREASURER.
   One member elected by the Fire Department shall be Secretary-Treasurer, and
his or her duties shall consist of the following:
   (A)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
   (B)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
   (C)   Collecting any money due the Department by the members.
(Prior Code, § 13-406)
§ 33.41 NEW MEMBERS.
   (A)   All new members shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment.
   (B)   New volunteer members, upon completion of their probation period, must
be approved by the majority of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-407)
§ 33.42 BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the Department shall include the following.
   (A)   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   They are required to be present at all regular meetings, call meetings
and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   (C)   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
   (D)   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in succession
or three unexcused absences in a period of three months will be dropped from
the Fire Department rolls.
   (E)   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an extended period of time
will be required to notify the Chief.
   (F)   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him or her will be dropped.
   (G)   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be dropped from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
      (5)   Conviction of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 13-408)
§ 33.43 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer first aid
to, persons injured in or about burning structures or elsewhere in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention and unless otherwise provided, to enforce
all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention and safety of persons from
fire and explosions in theaters, stores and other public buildings.
(Prior Code, § 13-409)
§ 33.44 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt rules and
regulations governing the Fire Department. All firefighters shall be of legal
age, in good health and residents of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-410)
§ 33.45 ANSWERING CALLS OUTSIDE LIMITS.
   (A)   The Fire Department, in accordance with any regulations the Town Board
of Trustees may prescribe, may respond to calls outside the town limits. In
answering calls outside the limits or performing fire prevention, rescue,
resuscitation, first aid, inspection or any other official work outside the
town limits, the Department shall be considered an agent of the state and
acting in a governmental capacity. The town shall not be liable for any act of
commission, omission or negligence in answering, returning from or performing
such work outside the limits.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department may respond to calls outside the limits
of the town within a radius of 12 miles of the town.
   (C)   When aid is requested of the volunteer Fire Department by other
governmental agencies, the boundaries imposed by division (B) above shall be
waived to allow execution of the conditions set forth in the mutual aid
agreement entered into by the town and the volunteer Fire Department on
November 9, 1982, and amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 13-411)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Finance and Budget Administration
   
34.001   Depositories designated; funds to be deposited
   
34.002   Funds secured by unit collateral system
   
34.003   “Contractual services” defined
   
34.004   Purchase; how made
   
34.005   When prior approval by the Town Board of Trustees is required
   
34.006   Competitive bidding
   
34.007   When competitive bidding is not required
   
34.008   Sales, Town Board of Trustees to declare surplus or obsolete
competitive bidding
   
34.009   When competitive bidding is not required on sales
Sales Tax
   
34.020   Title
   
34.021   State Sales Tax Code definitions adopted
   
34.022   “Tax collector” defined
   
34.023   Classification of taxpayers
   
34.024   Subsisting state permits
   
34.025   Effective date
   
34.026   Purpose of revenues
   
34.027   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
34.028   Exemptions; sales subject to other tax
   
34.029   Exemption; governmental and nonprofit entities
   
34.030   Exemptions; general
   
34.031   Exemptions; agriculture
   
34.032   Exemptions; manufacturers
   
34.033   Exemptions; corporations and partnerships
   
34.034   Tax due when; returns; records
   
34.035   Payment of tax; brackets
   
34.036   Tax constitutes debt
   
34.037   Vendor’s duty to collect tax
   
34.038   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
34.039   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
34.040   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
34.041   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
34.042   Fraudulent returns
   
34.043   Records confidential
   
34.044   Amendments
   
34.045   Provisions cumulative
   
34.046   Tax rate and levy
   
34.047   Tax additional to all other excise taxes
   
34.048   Purpose of revenues; disposition of proceeds
   
34.049   Administration and collection procedures
   
34.050   Provisions cumulative
   
34.051   Amendments to subchapter
   
34.052   Time limit on tax
Telephone Exchange Tax
   
34.065   Fee levied on telephone exchanges
   
34.066   Fee to be in lieu of other fee, taxes
Utility Tax
   
34.080   Utility tax levied
   
34.081   Not to apply to franchises
   
34.082   Payment of tax
   
34.083   Failure to pay tax
   
34.084   Tax constitutes lien
Use Tax
   
34.095   Title
   
34.096   Definitions
   
34.097   Excise tax on storage, consumption of intangible, personal property
levied
   
34.098   Purpose of revenues
   
34.099   Exemptions
   
34.100   Time when due, returns, payments
   
34.101   Tax constitutes debt
   
34.102   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor
   
34.103   Revoking permits
   
34.104   Remunerative deductions
   
34.105   Interest and penalties, delinquency
   
34.106   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
34.107   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
34.108   Fraudulent returns
   
34.109   Records confidential
   
34.110   Classification of taxpayers
   
34.111   Subsisting state permits
   
34.112   Provisions cumulative
911 Emergency Telephone Service Fee
   
34.125   Fee levied
   
34.126   Maximum lines per user subject to fee
   
34.127   Collection
   
34.128   Purpose
   
34.129   Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
34.130   Cooperation with other entities
   
34.131   Administrative fee
FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
§ 34.001 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS TO BE DEPOSITED.
   All banks and all savings and loan associations which are incorporated under
federal or state law are hereby designated as depositories for the funds of the
town. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit daily all public funds received by
him or her in such banks or savings and loan associations.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 34.002 FUNDS SECURED BY UNIT COLLATERAL SYSTEM.
   The deposits of the town shall be secured by the unit collateral system
provided by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
§ 34.003 “CONTRACTUAL SERVICES” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. Services performed for the town by persons not in the
employment of the town and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing
of commodities in connection with the services under express or implied
contract. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES shall include travel; freight; express; parcel
post; postage; telephone; telegraph; utilities; rents; printing out; binding;
repairs, alterations and maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets and
bridges and other physical facilities of the town; and other services performed
for the town by persons not in the employment of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)
§ 34.004 PURCHASE; HOW MADE.
   All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services for
the offices, departments and agencies of the town government, shall be made by
the Town Board of Trustees or by other town personnel in accordance with
purchase authorizations issued by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)
§ 34.005 WHEN PRIOR APPROVAL BY THE TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES IS REQUIRED.
   Every contract for, or purchase of, supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services for more than $5,000 shall require the prior approval of
the Town Board of Trustees and under no circumstances may such contract or
purchase be made without first obtaining the approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-105)
§ 34.006 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   (1)   Before any purchase of, or contract for, supplies, materials,
equipment or contractual services are made, as otherwise provided below, the
town purchasing authority shall submit to at least three persons, forms or
corporations dealing in and able to supply the same, or to a smaller number if
there are not three dealing in and able to supply the same, a request for
quotation or invitation to bid, and specifications, to give them opportunity to
bid; or publish notice of the proposed purchase in a newspaper of general
circulation within the town.
      (2)   He or she shall favor a person, firm or corporation in the town
when this can be done without additional cost to the town; but he or she shall
submit requests for quotation to those outside the town when this may be
necessary to secure bids or to create competitive conditions, or when he or she
thinks that by so doing he or she can make a saving for the town; and shall
purchase from them when he or she can make a saving for the town.
   (B)   All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a designated
time and place. The town purchasing authority may repeatedly reject all bids,
and again may submit to the same or other persons, firms or corporations the
request for quotation, or invitation to bid, or again publish notice of the
proposed purchase. He or she may purchase from the bidder whose bid is most
advantageous to the town, considering price, quality, date of delivery and so
on, and in case of a tie, may purchase from one of those tying or may divide
the purchase among those tying, always accepting the bid or bids most
advantageous to the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-106)
§ 34.007 WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING IS NOT REQUIRED.
   The following may be purchased without giving an opportunity for competitive
bidding:
   (A)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services whose cost does
not exceed $2,500 in a single transaction;
   (B)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer or which have a uniform price wherever
bought;
   (C)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased from
another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from private
dealers, including government surplus;
   (D)   Equipment to replace existing equipment which has become inoperable
when the Board of Trustees declares the purchase an emergency;
   (E)   Contractual services, including, but not limited to, natural gas,
electricity, telephone service, purchased from a public utility at a price or
rate determined by the State Corporation Commission or other governmental
authority;
   (F)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when purchased
at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the state purchasing agency or
any other state agency hereafter authorized to regulate prices for things
purchased by the state, whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise; and
   (G)   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural and medical services unless competitive bidding is required by
applicable law or regulations, such as certain federal grants programs.
(Prior Code, § 7-107)
§ 34.008 SALES, TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES TO DECLARE SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE
COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value of more
than $1,000 may be sold until the Town Board of Trustees has declared them
obsolete or surplus. Before the Town Board of Trustees sells any surplus or
obsolete supplies, materials or equipment, except as otherwise provided below,
they shall be advertised for sale in a newspaper of general circulation in the
town or give notice in such other manner as the Board of Trustees deems
necessary adequately to reach prospective buyers to give them opportunity to
make bids. All bids shall be scaled and shall be opened in public at a
designated time and place, except when the sale is by auction. The Town Board
of Trustees may repeatedly reject all bids and advertise or give notice again.
The Town Board of Trustees shall sell such supplies, materials or equipment to
the highest responsible bidder for cash. In case of a tie, the Board of
Trustees may sell to either of the bidders tying or may divide the sale among
two or more tying, always selling to the highest responsible bidder or bidders
for cash.
(Prior Code, § 7-108)
§ 34.009 WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING IS NOT REQUIRED ON SALES.
   The Town Board of Trustees may sell the following without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding:
   (A)   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total value
does not exceed $1,000 in a single transaction; and
   (B)   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the town for the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-109)
SALES TAX
§ 34.020 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “Town of Kellyville Sales
Tax Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
§ 34.021 STATE SALES TAX CODE DEFINITIONS ADOPTED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the definitions of words, terms and
phrases contained in the State Sales Tax Code (68 O.S. § 1352) are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 34.022 “TAX COLLECTOR” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the town or the official agency of the
state duly designated according to law or contract and authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax levied in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 34.023 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Sales Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 34.024 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
are, for the purpose of this subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted
in lieu of any requirement for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
§ 34.025 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter became effective as to each cent tax after approval of a
majority of the registered voters of the town voting on the ordinance in the
manner prescribed by 11 O.S. § 16-112.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)
§ 34.026 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is the purpose of the sales tax to provide revenues for the support of
the functions of the municipal government of the town. Any and all revenues
derived thereunder may be expended by the Town Board of Trustees for any
purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized by state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)
§ 34.027 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 3% upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the State Sales Tax Code,
including, but not exclusive of, the following:
   (A)   Tangible personal property;
   (B)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam or any other
utility or public service except water and those specifically exempt by this
subchapter;
   (C)   Transportation for hire of persons by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, pullman car companies, airlines and all other means of
transportation for hire;
   (D)   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or users,
including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This shall
include all services and rental charges having any connection with transmission
of any message;
   (E)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds and characters and the
service of printing or over-printing, including the copying of information by
mimeograph or multigraph, or by otherwise duplicating written or printed matter
in any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information on
magnetic tapes furnished by customers;
   (F)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public rooming
house, motel, public lodging house or tourist camps;
   (G)   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels and
parking lots;
   (H)   Selling, renting or otherwise furnishing computer hardware or software
or coding sheets, cards or magnetic tapes on which pre-written programs have
been coded, punched or otherwise recorded;
   (I)   Food, confections and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
   (J)   Advertising of all kinds, types and character, including any and all
devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising
devices, except those specifically exempt by this subchapter;
   (K)   Dues or fees to clubs, including free or complimentary dues or fees
which shall have the value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise
been made, including any fees paid for the use of facilities or services
rendered at a health spa or club or any similar facility or business;
   (L)   Sales of tickets, fees or other charges made for admission to or
voluntary contributions made to places of amusement, sports entertainment,
exhibition, display or other recreational events or activities, including free
or complimentary admissions which shall have the value equivalent to the charge
that would have otherwise been made;
   (M)   Charges made for the privilege of entering or engaging in any kind of
activity, when no admission is charged spectators, such as tennis, racket ball
or hand ball courts;
   (N)   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement, sports,
entertainment or recreational activity such as trampolines or golf carts;
   (O)   The rental of equipment for amusement, sports, entertainment or other
recreational activities, such as bowling shoes, skates, golf carts or other
sports and athletic equipment;
   (P)   The gross receipts from sales through any vending machine, without any
deduction for rental to locate the vending machine on the premises of a person
who is not the owner or any other deductions therefrom;
   (Q)   Gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of tangible
personal property, including rental or lease of personal property when the
rental or lease agreement requires the vendor to launder, clean, repair or
otherwise service the rented or leased property on a regular basis, without any
deduction for the cost of the service rendered; provided, that if the rental or
lease charge is based on the retail value of the property at the time of making
the rental or lease agreement and the expected life of the property, and the
rental or lease charge is separately stated from the service cost in the
statement, bill or invoice delivered to the consumer, the cost of services
rendered shall be deducted from the gross receipts or gross proceeds;
   (R)   Any licensing agreement, rental, lease or other device or instrument
whereby rights to possess or exhibit motion pictures or filmed performances or
rights to receive images, pictures or performances for telecast by any method
are transferred; provided, that persons regularly engaged in the business of
exhibiting motion pictures for which the sale of tickets or admissions is taxed
under this subchapter shall not be deemed to be consumers or users in respect
to the licensing or exhibiting of copyrighted motion picture features, shorts,
cartoons and scenes from copyrighted features and the sale or licensing of such
films shall not be considered a sale within the purview of this subchapter;
   (S)   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees and other floral items, whether or not
same was produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or nursery
business in this state, including all orders taken by an Oklahoma business for
delivery in another state; provided, that all orders taken outside this state
for delivery within this state shall not be subject to the tax levied by this
subchapter;
   (T)   Tangible personal property sold to persons, peddlers, solicitors or
other sales people, for resale where there is likelihood that this state will
lose tax revenue due to the difficulty of enforcing this chapter because of:
      (1)   The operation of the business;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The turnover of independent contractors;
      (4)   The lack of place of business in which to display a permit or keep
records;
      (5)   Lack of adequate records;
      (6)   The persons are minors or transients;
      (7)   The persons are engaged in service businesses; or
      (8)   Any other reasonable reason.
   (U)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property, including
materials, supplies and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate, even though such real estate is intended
for resale as real property, are hereby declared to be sales to consumers or
users and taxable; and
   (V)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property sold to persons
who are primarily engaged in selling their services, such as repair persons,
are hereby declared to be sales to consumers or users and taxable.
(Prior Code, § 7-208)
§ 34.028 EXEMPTIONS; SALES SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX.
   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this subchapter
the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the State Sales Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq. inclusive, but not exclusive of, and derived from
the:
   (A)   Sale of nonintoxicating beverages on which the tax levied by state law
has been paid;
   (B)   Sale of cigarettes and such tobacco products on which the tax levied
by state law has been paid;
   (C)   Sale of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax, gasoline
excise tax or special fuels tax levied by state law has been paid;
   (D)   Sale of motor vehicles or any optional equipment or accessories
attached to motor vehicles on which the State Motor Vehicle Excise Tax levied
by state law has been paid; and
   (E)   Sale of crude petroleum or natural or casinghead gas and other
products subject to gross production tax under state law. This exemption shall
not apply when such products are sold to consumer or user for consumption or
use, except when used for injection into the earth for the purpose of promoting
or facilitating the production of oil or gas. This division (E) shall not
operate to increase or repeal the gross production tax levied by the laws of
this state.
(Prior Code, § 7-209)
§ 34.029 EXEMPTION; GOVERNMENTAL AND NONPROFIT ENTITIES.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
   (A)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to the United States
government or to the state, any political subdivision of this state or any
agency of a political subdivision of the state; provided, that all sales to
contractors in connection with the performance of any contract with the United
States government, the state or any of its political subdivisions shall not be
exempted from the tax levied by this subchapter, except as hereinafter
provided;
   (B)   Sales made directly by county, district or state fair authorities of
this state, upon the premises of the fair authority, for the sole benefit of
the fair authority;
   (C)   Sale of food in cafeterias or lunchrooms of elementary schools, high
schools, colleges or universities which are operated primarily for teachers and
pupils and are not operated primarily for the public or for profit;
   (D)   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof; provided, that such
societies or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan
or system, and provided such societies or organizations do not operate for a
profit which inures to the benefit of any individual member or members thereof
to the exclusion of other members;
   (E)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except sales made in the course of business for profit or savings, competing
with other persons engaged in the same or similar business;
   (F)   The amount of proceeds received from the sale of admission tickets
which is separately stated on the ticket of admission for the repayment of
money borrowed by any accredited state-supported college or university for the
purpose of constructing or enlarging any facility to be used for the staging of
an athletic event, a theatrical production or any other form of entertainment,
edification or cultural cultivation to which entry is gained with a paid
admission ticket. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, athletic
fields, athletic stadiums, field houses, amphitheaters and theaters. To be
eligible for this sales tax exemption, the amount separately stated on the
admission ticket shall be a surcharge which is imposed, collected and used for
the sole purpose of servicing or aiding in the servicing of debt incurred by
the college or university to effect the capital improvements hereinbefore
described;
   (G)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the Town Board of
Trustees by organizations or similar state supervisory organizations of the Boy
Scouts of America, Girl Scouts of the USA and the Camp Fire organization shall
be exempt from sales tax; or
   (H)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to any county,
municipality, public school district, the institutions of the state system of
higher education and the Grand River Dam Authority, or to any person with whom
any of the above named subdivisions or agencies of this state has duly entered
into a public contract pursuant to law, necessary for carrying out such public
contract. Any person making purchases on behalf of such subdivision or agency
of this state shall certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales
ticket to be retained by the vendor that the purchases are made for and on
behalf of such subdivision or agency of this state and set out the name of such
public subdivision or agency. Any person who wrongfully or erroneously
certifies that purchases are for any of the above named subdivision or agencies
of this state or who otherwise violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined an amount equal to
double the amount of the sales tax involved or incarcerated for not more than
60 days or both.
(Prior Code, § 7-210) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.030 EXEMPTIONS; GENERAL.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
   (A)   Transportation of school pupils to and from elementary schools or high
schools in motor or other vehicles;
   (B)   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not
exceed $1, or local transportation of persons within the corporate limits of a
municipality except by taxicab;
   (C)   Carrier sales of newspapers and periodicals made directly to
consumers. Other sales of newspapers and periodicals where any individual
transaction does not exceed $0.75. A carrier is a person who regularly delivers
newspapers or periodicals to subscribers on assigned route;
   (D)   Sales for resale to persons engaged in the business of reselling the
articles purchased, whether within or without the state; provided, that such
sales to residents of this state are made to persons to whom sales tax permits
have been issued as provided in this subchapter. This exemption shall not apply
to the sales of articles made to persons holding permits when such persons
purchase items for their use and which they are not regularly engaged in the
business of reselling; neither shall this exemption apply to sales of tangible
personal property to peddlers, solicitors and other sales people who do not
have an established place of business and a sales tax permit;
   (E)   Sales of advertising space in newspapers and periodicals and billboard
advertising service, and any advertising through the electronic media,
including radio, television and cable television;
   (F)   Eggs, feed, supplies, machinery and equipment purchased by persons
regularly engaged in the business of raising worms, fish, any insect or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic animal life and used for the purpose of
raising some for marketing. This exemption shall only be granted and extended
to the purchaser when the items are to be used and in fact are used in the
raising of animal life as set out above. Each purchaser shall certify, in
writing, on the invoice or sales ticket retained by the vendor that he or she
is regularly engaged in the business of raising such animal life and that the
items purchased will be used only in such business. The vendor shall certify to
the State Tax Commission that the price of the items has been reduced to grant
the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or vendor
shall be a misdemeanor;
   (G)   Sales of medicine or drugs prescribed for the treatment of human
beings by a person licensed to prescribe the medicine or drugs. This exemption
shall not apply to proprietary or patent medicines as defined by 59 O.S. §
353.1; and
   (H)   Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting the town
from levying and collecting taxes on the sale of natural or artificial gas and
electricity, whether sold for residential or any other use after December 31,
1980. The sales tax levied by the town on natural or artificial gas and
electricity shall be in effect regardless of any ordinance or contractual
provisions referring to previously imposed state sales tax on such items.
(Prior Code, § 7-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.031 EXEMPTIONS; AGRICULTURE.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
   (A)   Sales of agricultural products produced in this state by the producer
thereof directly to the consumer or user when such articles are sold at or from
a farm and not from some other place of business, as follows:
      (1)   Farm, orchard or garden products;
      (2)   Dairy products sold by a dairy worker or farmer who owns all the
cows from which the dairy products offered for sale are produced;
      (3)   Livestock sold by the producer at a special livestock sale; and
      (4)   The provisions of this division (A) shall not be construed as
exempting sales by florists, nursery workers or chicken hatcheries, or sales of
dairy products by any other business except as set out herein.
   (B)   Sale of baby chicks, turkey poults and starter pullets used in the
commercial production of chicken, turkeys and eggs; provided, that the
purchaser certifies, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to
be retained by the vendor that the pullets will be used primarily for egg
production;
   (C)   Sale of salt, grains, tankage, oyster shells, mineral supplements,
limestone and other generally recognized animal feeds for the following
purposes and subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   Feed which is fed to poultry and livestock, including breeding
stack and wool-bearing stock, for the purpose of producing eggs, poultry, milk
or meat for human consumption;
      (2)   Feed purchased in the state for the purpose of being fed to and
which is fed by the purchaser to horses, mules or other domestic or draft
animals used directly in the producing and marketing of agricultural products;
      (3)   Any stock tonics, water-purifying products, stock sprays,
disinfectants or other such agricultural supplies;
      (4)   Poultry shall not be construed to include any fowl other than
domestic fowl kept and raised for the market or production of eggs;
      (5)   Livestock shall not be construed to include any pet animals such as
dogs, cats, birds or such other fur-bearing animals; and
      (6)   This exemption shall only be granted and extended where the
purchaser of feed that is to be used and in fact is used for a purpose that
would bring about an exemption hereunder executes an invoice or sales ticket in
duplicate on a form to be prescribed by the Tax Commission. The purchaser may
demand and receive a copy of the invoice or sales ticket and the vendor shall
retain a copy.
   (D)   Sales of items to be and in fact used in the production of
agricultural products. Sale of the following items shall be subject to the
following limitations:
      (1)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person regularly engaged,
for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor, that he or she is so engaged in farming or ranching and that the
material purchased will be used only in such business;
      (2)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person engaged in the
business of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis to land owned
or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall certify, in writing,
on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor that he
or she is engaged in the business of applying such materials to lands owned or
leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the business
of farming or ranching, and shall show in the certificate the name or names of
such owner or lessee and operator, the location of the lands on which the
materials are to be applied to each such land, and he or she shall further
certify that his or her contract price has been reduced so as to give the
farmer or rancher the full benefit of this exemption;
      (3)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to persons engaged in the business
of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis shall not be
considered to be sales to contractors under this subchapter, and the sales
shall not be considered to be taxable sales within the meaning of the State
Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq. For the purpose of this division
(D)(3), AGRICULTURAL FERTILIZER means any substance sold and used for soil
enrichment or soil corrective purposes or for promoting the growth and
productivity of plants;
      (4)   Sales of agricultural seed or plants to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. This section shall
not be construed as exempting from sales tax, seed which is packaged and sold
for use in noncommercial flower and vegetable gardens;
      (5)   Sales of agricultural chemical pesticides to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. For the purpose of
this division (D)(5), AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL PESTICIDES shall include any
substance or mixture of substances intended for preventing, destroying,
repelling or mitigating any insect, snail, slug, rodent, bird, nematode,
fungus, weed or any other form of terrestrial or aquatic plant or animal life
or virus, bacteria or other microorganism, except viruses, bacterial or other
microorganisms on or in a living human, or any substance or mixture of
substances intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant or desiccant; and
      (6)   This exemption shall only be granted and extended to the purchaser
where the items are to be used and in fact are used in the production of
agricultural products. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of
the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material
purchased will only be used in his or her farming occupation. The vendor shall
certify to the State Tax Commission that the contract price of the items has
been reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by
the purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor, and, upon violation and
conviction for a second offense, the State Tax Commission shall revoke the
vendor’s sales tax permit.
   (E)   Sale of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel, oil, lubricants
and other substances used for operation and maintenance of the farm machinery
to be used directly on a farm or ranch in the production, cultivation,
planting, sowing, harvesting, processing, spraying, preservation or irrigation
of any livestock, poultry, agricultural or dairy products produced from such
lands. Each purchaser of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel must
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor, that he or she is engaged in farming or ranching and that the
farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel will be used only in farming or
ranching. The exemption provided for herein shall not apply to motor vehicles.
Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales
ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material purchased will only be
used in his or her farming occupation. The vendor shall certify to the State
Tax Commission that the price of the items has been reduced to grant the full
benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or vendor shall be
a misdemeanor, and, upon violation and conviction for a second offense, the
State Tax Commission shall revoke the vendor’s sales tax permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-212) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.032 EXEMPTIONS; MANUFACTURERS.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
   (A)   Goods, wares, merchandise and property purchased for the purpose of
being used or consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling or preparing for sale a finished article and such goods,
wares, merchandise or property become integral parts of the manufactured,
compounded, processed, assembled or prepared products or are consumed in the
process of manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling or preparing
products for resale. For the purpose of this division (A), MANUFACTURING PLANTS
shall mean establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing
operations, and generally recognized as such;
   (B)   Ethyl alcohol when sold and used for the purpose of blending same with
motor fuel on which motor fuel tax is levied by state law;
   (C)   Sale of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing plants in the state, and machinery and equipment
purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing plants already
established in the state. This exemption shall not apply unless such machinery
and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of
manufacturing property subject to taxation under this subchapter. For the
purpose of this division (C), MANUFACTURING PLANTS means establishments
primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and generally
recognized as such;
   (D)   Sales of containers when sold to a person regularly engaged in the
business of reselling empty or filled containers or when purchased for the
purpose of packaging raw products of farm, garden or orchard for resale to the
consumer or processor. This exemption shall not apply to the sale of any
containers used more than once and which are ordinarily known as returnable
containers, except returnable soft drink bottles. Each and every transfer of
title or possession of such returnable containers in this state to any person
who is not regularly engaged in the business of selling, reselling or otherwise
transferring empty or filled containers shall be taxable under this code. This
exemption shall not apply to the sale of labels or other materials delivered
along with items sold but which are not necessary or absolutely essential to
the sale of the sold merchandise; or
   (E)   Sale of tangible personal property manufactured in the state when sold
by the manufacturer to a person who transports if to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state.
(Prior Code, § 7-213)
§ 34.033 EXEMPTIONS; CORPORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied in this
subchapter:
   (A)   The transfer of tangible personal property, as follows:
      (1)   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. For the purpose of this division (A)(1), REORGANIZATION means a
statutory merger or consolidation or the acquisition by a corporation of
substantially all of the properties of another corporation when the
consideration is solely all or a part of the voting stock of the acquiring
corporation, or of its parent or subsidiary corporation;
      (2)   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of a
corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
      (3)   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of such
corporation where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately
after the transfer in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities
received by each is substantially in proportion to his or her interest in the
property prior to the transfer;
      (4)   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the
former owners of the property transferred are immediately such;
      (5)   Sales of containers when sold to a person regularly engaged in the
business after the transfer, members of such partnership and the interest in
the partnership, received by each, is substantially in proportion to his or her
interest in the property prior to the transfer; or
      (6)   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in the
dissolution of such partnership.
   (B)   Sale of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other person who after such sale owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the state sales or use tax has previously been paid on
such tangible personal property.
(Prior Code, § 7-214)
§ 34.034 TAX DUE WHEN; RETURNS; RECORDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the State
Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-215)
§ 34.035 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax.
   (B)   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the tax
collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
town and the tax collector, in the collection of both the town sales tax and
the state sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 7-216)
§ 34.036 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty and interest due under this subchapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 7-217)
§ 34.037 VENDOR’S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It is the duty of each and every vendor in this town to collect from
the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this subchapter, or
an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall constitute
a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or user to
vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other
debts.
   (C)   A vendor, as defined hereunder, who willfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
subchapter, or willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply
with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly
or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein
levied, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any
statement which infers that he or she is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax
for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the
tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
10.99.
   (D)   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this subchapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the town, Any
person, firm, corporation, joint venture or association that willfully or
intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be
collected or paid shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-218)
§ 34.038 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be
subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the State Sales Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq. for collection of state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 7-219)
§ 34.039 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   The town hereby adopts and makes part of this subchapter 68 O.S. § 217, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this subchapter. The failure or refusal of any
taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time
and manner required by this subchapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
In addition, if the delinquency continues for a period of five days, the
taxpayer shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount allowed under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-220)
§ 34.040 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer’s failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in administration
of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220. To accomplish the purposes of
this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-221)
§ 34.041 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227. To accomplish the purpose of
this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-222)
§ 34.042 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this subchapter, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this subchapter shall be an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, the
offending taxpayer shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-223)
§ 34.043 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of the Uniform Tax Procedure
Code (68 O.S. § 205), and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town
sales tax as if set forth fully herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-224)
§ 34.044 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the town, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance hereby
authorize the Town Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the town as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-225)
§ 34.045 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any
or all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-226)
§ 34.046 TAX RATE AND LEVY.
   There is hereby assessed and levied a city excise tax of 1%, in addition to
all other excise taxes assessed and levied by the town, and all other taxing
authority, upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales to
any person taxable under the provisions of the State Sales Tax Code (68 O.S. §§
1350 et seq.). The terms and provisions of said State Sales Tax Code, where
applicable and not in conflict, are incorporated herein by reference thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7-227)
§ 34.047 TAX ADDITIONAL TO ALL OTHER EXCISE TAXES.
   The excise tax levied pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter is in
addition to any and all other excise taxes levied or assessed by the city or
any other taxing authority.
(Prior Code, § 7-228)
§ 34.048 PURPOSE OF REVENUES; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenue for special and general needs of the town, and that the revenue derived
from such tax levy shall be distributed in the following manner.
      (1)   Sixty percent of such additional funds shall be earmarked and used
for street improvements, which would include road construction, resurfacing,
drainage improvements, financing expense and such other projects which would
result in the improvement of the town’s street system.
      (2)   Ten percent of such additional funds shall be earmarked and used
for the betterment of the town library, which would include the purchase of
books and materials, salaries, construction and other projects which would
result in the betterment of said library.
      (3)   Ten percent of such additional funds shall be earmarked and used
for Fire Department services, including the purchase and repair of equipment,
training, salaries, construction and other projects which would result in the
betterment of said Fire Department services.
      (4)   Ten percent of such additional funds shall be earmarked and used
for Police Department services, including the purchase and repair of equipment,
training, salaries, construction and other projects which would result in the
betterment of said Police Department services.
      (5)   Five percent of such additional funds shall be earmarked and used
for sanitary sewer improvements, which would include the installation, repair
and constructions of sewer projects, and the purchase and repair of equipment,
salaries, construction and other projects which would result in the improvement
of the town’s sewer system.
      (6)   Five percent of such additional funds shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the town.
   (B)   All revenues and proceeds derived from the tax levied by this
subchapter, including any interest earned from the proceeds, shall be deposited
and credited into the respective funds above described, created and established
under the provisions of state statutes, for the purposes herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-229)
§ 34.049 ADMINISTRATION AND COLLECTION PROCEDURES.
   For the purpose of administration and collection, the provisions of §§
34.021 through
34.024 and §§ 34.27 through
34.045 shall apply to the excise tax assessed and levied by this subchapter and
those sections of this subchapter are incorporated herein by reference as if
fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-230)
§ 34.050 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any
and all other taxing provisions of any city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-231)
§ 34.051 AMENDMENTS TO SUBCHAPTER.
   The governing body is authorized, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method of
administration and enforcement of this subchapter as may be necessary or proper
for efficiency and fairness, except that the tax rate and the limitation of
time for the collection of the tax herein shall not be changed, without
approval of the qualified electors of the city as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-232)
§ 34.052 TIME LIMIT ON TAX.
   The excise tax levied and imposed by this subchapter shall remain in effect
for a period of ten years, commencing on January 1, 2002, and ending on
December 31, 2011, and shall be collected on all taxable sales occurring within
the city on and between those dates.
(Prior Code, § 7-233)
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE TAX
§ 34.065 FEE LEVIED ON TELEPHONE EXCHANGES.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge
upon each and every person, firm or corporation operating a telephone exchange
in the town in an amount equal to 2% of the gross revenues for each current
year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the
limits of the town to compensate the town for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulations and police control of the construction of lines and
equipment of the telephone company in the town.
   (B)   The inspection fee and charge shall be on a calendar year basis and
shall be due and payable to the town as required by the Town Board shall he or
she paid into and appropriated and expended from the General Revenue Fund of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
§ 34.066 FEE TO BE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEE, TAXES.
   During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this subchapter by
the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the town is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police calls
systems of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-302)
UTILITY TAX
§ 34.080 UTILITY TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of 2% or as set by
ordinance, upon the gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas
in the town, which tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license,
occupation or excise tax levied by such town, all as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-401)
§ 34.081 NOT TO APPLY TO FRANCHISES.
   The tax levied under this subchapter shall, when levied, apply to all
persons, firms, associations or corporations engaged in business of furnishing
gas or electricity within the town limits, except it shall not apply to any
person, firm, association or corporation operating under a valid franchise from
the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-402)
§ 34.082 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax levied under this subchapter on gas receipts shall be levied for a
term of not less than one year and shall be payable monthly and placed in the
General Revenue Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-403)
§ 34.083 FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such town, and,
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-404)
§ 34.084 TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the town of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling gas within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-405)
USE TAX
§ 34.095 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “Town of Kellyville Use
Tax.”
(Prior Code, § 7-501)
§ 34.096 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the terms and phrases contained in the
State Use Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1401, as well as the following definitions, shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the town government or the official agency
of the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law,
to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
   TRANSACTION. Sale.
(Prior Code, § 7-502)
§ 34.097 EXCISE TAX ON STORAGE, CONSUMPTION OF INTANGIBLE, PERSONAL PROPERTY
LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person
storing, using or otherwise consuming within the town tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into this town, an excise tax on the storage, use
or other consuming within the town of such property at the rate of 2% of the
purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by every person
storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the town, tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into the town. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
within the town and shall be assessed to only property purchased outside the
state; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against
tangible, personal property intended solely for use outside the town, but which
is stored in the town pending shipment outside the town or which is temporarily
retained in the town for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance or other service.
   (B)   Any person liable for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct
from such tax any local or municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or
services; provided, that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that
would have been due if the taxes imposed by the town had been levied on the
sale of such goods or services.
(Prior Code, § 7-503)
§ 34.098 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the
town, and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the
governing body of the town for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully
expended as authorized.
(Prior Code, § 7-504)
§ 34.099 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the town by a nonresident individual visiting in this town for his
or her personal use or enjoyment while within the town;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   (1)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal
property on which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the State
Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq. and this subchapter, has been paid
by the person using such tangible, personal property in the town, whether such
tax was levied under state laws or some other state or municipality of the
United States; and
      (2)   If any article of tangible, personal property has already been
subjected to a tax by the state or any other state or municipality in respect
to its sale or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the State
Use Tax Code and Town Use Tax, the provision of this subchapter shall also
apply to it by a rate measured by the difference only between the rate provided
by both the State Use Tax Code and this subchapter, and the rate by which the
previous tax upon the sale or use was computed; provided, that no credit shall
be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality, if that state or
municipality does not grant like credit for taxes paid in the state and the
town.
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the town, and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons to the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the town; provided, that this
exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated
into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to
taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the town. For the purpose of this division
(D), MANUFACTURING PLANTS means those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the town;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the town by an individual with intent to become a resident of this
town where such personal property is for such individual’s personal use or
enjoyment;
   (G)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; or
   (H)   In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and brought into
this town for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(Prior Code, § 7-505)
§ 34.100 TIME WHEN DUE, RETURNS, PAYMENTS.
   The tax levied by this subchapter is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the State Use
Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-506)
§ 34.101 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 7-507)
§ 34.102 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR.
   (A)   Generally. Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business
both within and without the state, and making sales of tangible, personal
property from a place of business outside this state for use in this town shall
at the time of making such sales collect the use tax levied by this subchapter
from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner
and form prescribed by the Tax Commission, if the Tax Commission shall, by
regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the
Tax Commission the name and address of all his or her agents operating in this
town and location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or
other places of business in the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-508)
   (B)   Retailers or vendors not maintaining a place of business within the
state, or both within and without state. The Tax Commission may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax herein levied
by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business within the state
but who makes sales of tangible, personal property for use in this town and by
the out-of-state place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places
of business both within and without this state and making sales of tangible,
personal property such out-of-state place of business for use in this town.
Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such
taxes by the Tax Commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and
agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of
such retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible, personal property
sold to his or her knowledge for use within this town. Such authority and
permit may be cancelled when at any time the Tax Commission considers that such
tax can more effectively be collected from the person using such property in
this town; provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are made
or completed by delivery to the purchaser within this town by the retailer or
vendor in such retailer’s or vendor’s vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by
common carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to
applicable town sales tax at the point of delivery, and the tax shall be
collected and reported under taxpayer’s sales tax permit number accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 7-509)
§ 34.103 REVOKING PERMITS.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter of
the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq. or any orders, rules or
regulations of the Tax Commission, the Tax Commission may, upon notice and
hearing as provided for in 68 O.S. § 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit,
if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor
is a corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel the corporation’s license to do business in this
state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied
with the obligations under this subchapter, the State Use Tax Code or any
orders, rules or regulations of the Tax Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7-510)
§ 34.104 REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Use Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.; and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall
be subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the Code for the
collection of state use taxes.
(Prior Code, § 7-511)
§ 34.105 INTEREST AND PENALTIES, DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts and makes part of this subchapter 68 O.S. §
217, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as herein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this subchapter; provided, that the
failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports
and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this subchapter shall
cause such tax to be delinquent.
   (B)   In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five days,
the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount allowed
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-512)
§ 34.106 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the State Use Tax provided in 68 O.S. § 227, and,
to accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of 68
O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-513)
§ 34.107 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the town use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the purpose of
this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-514)
§ 34.108 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this subchapter, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this subchapter shall be an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, the
offending taxpayer shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day of noncompliance with this subchapter shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-515)
§ 34.109 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, of the State
Use Tax Code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town use tax as is
herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 7-516)
§ 34.110 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Use Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-517)
§ 34.111 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Tax
Commission, pursuant to the State Use Tax Code, are, for the purpose of this
subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-518)
§ 34.112 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of the town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-519)
911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE FEE
§ 34.125 FEE LEVIED.
   There is hereby imposed upon the tariff charges for exchange telephone
service or its equivalent of the local exchange telephone company providing
service within the corporate limits of the town a fee of 5%. The proceeds of 3%
of the 5% fee (60% of the total proceeds) shall be utilized to pay for the
operation of emergency telephone service as specified in 63 O.S. §§ 2811 et
seq. The remaining 2% of the 5% fee (40% of the total proceeds) shall be
utilized for the purchase of ancillary communications equipment necessary to
communicate the reported emergency to the appropriate emergency service agency.
Said fee shall remain in effect until such time as the provisions hereof are
amended or revoked by ordinance of the Board of Trustees of the town or by
operation of law.
(Prior Code, § 7-601)
§ 34.126 MAXIMUM LINES PER USER SUBJECT TO FEE.
   No such tax shall be imposed upon more than 100 exchange access lines or
their equivalent at one location per service user.
(Prior Code, § 7-602)
§ 34.127 COLLECTION.
   The tax shall be collected monthly by the local exchange company and
forwarded, within 30 days of the close of the month in which such taxes were
collected, to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 7-603)
§ 34.128 PURPOSE.
   Funds collected from this tax shall be spent for engineering, installation,
administration and other recurring or one-time costs necessary to implement,
administer, operate and maintain emergency 911 telephone service in the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-604)
§ 34.129 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to administer the emergency
911 telephone services in the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-605)
§ 34.130 COOPERATION WITH OTHER ENTITIES.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to cooperate with other
governing bodies who may impose a similar tax and who wish to participate in
the town’s emergency 911 telephone service.
(Prior Code, § 7-606)
§ 34.131 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   The local exchange company providing exchange telephone service within the
town shall be entitled to retain, as an administrative fee, 3% of the tax
imposed and collected pursuant to §
34.125.
(Prior Code, § 7-607)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Application for utility service
   
50.02   Separate service
   
50.03   Bills, when payable, delinquency, disconnection of service
   
50.04   Rights reserved to interrupt service
   
50.05   Damaging equipment
   
50.06   Interference with mains, fire hydrants
   
50.07   Tampering with meters unlawful
   
50.08   Procedure for governing board to set utility rates and charges
   
50.09   Utility fees and billings in general
   
50.10   Property owners responsible for renter utility service, bills
§ 50.01 APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICE.
   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to have his or her premises
connected with any of the town’s utilities, sewer or trash collection shall
make application and sign a contract therefor upon a printed form to be
furnished for that purpose and shall pay the regular fees and deposits for
installation of the service.
(Prior Code, § 17-101)
§ 50.02 SEPARATE SERVICE.
   Every separate premises supplied must have its own separate service
connection with the mains or lines, and the premises so supplied shall not be
allowed to supply water or sewer to any other premises.
(Prior Code, § 17-102)
§ 50.03 BILLS, WHEN PAYABLE, DELINQUENCY, DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon failure of any customer to pay any part of a utility bill
for any utility services by the due date on the bill, the following actions and
penalties may result:
         (a)   A 10% penalty of all amount owing on a utility bill is added to
any utility bill which is not paid by the due date of the bill; and
         (b)   If the bill remains unpaid as of ten days after the due date on
the bill, then the following actions may result:
            1.   The authorized agents of the town may disconnect or
discontinue any or all utility services to the customer after mailing written
notice to the customer of the intent of the town to disconnect or discontinue
any or all of the utility services;
            2.   The authorized agents of the town, upon direction of the Town
Board of Trustees, may discontinue to furnish water to any customer refusing or
neglecting to pay all or any part of a utility bill submitted after mailing
written notice to the customer of the intent of the town to disconnect the
water service; and/or
            3.   The authorized agents of the town, upon direction of the Town
Board of Trustees, may issue a citation to any customer refusing or neglecting
to pay all or any part of a trash bill submitted, after mailing written notice
to the customer of intent of the town to issue a citation with fines and court
costs assessed as provided in §
10.99.
      (2)   If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected pursuant to
this section, the town, or its agents, shall not reconnect or reestablish the
service until the full amount of any outstanding utility service bill is paid,
plus the penalty provided in this section, plus any applicable charges or
expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service.
   (B)   If town personnel goes to the premises to shut off the service and the
occupant pays the town personnel prior to his or her shutting off the service,
there shall be added to the bill a sum for the trip made by the town personnel
to shut off such services. All bills, penalties and fees collected as
hereinabove specified shall be paid over to the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Nothing
herein shall be construed as preventing the town from instituting suit for the
recovery of any delinquent accounts.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may not accept payment of a trash bill
without payment of the sewer service charge, nor shall the Clerk-Treasurer
accept payment of a sewer bill without payment of the trash bill. The failure
to pay any utility bill in accordance with divisions (A) and (B) above shall be
grounds for discontinuing any or all of the utility services furnished to the
customer whose bill is delinquent.
   (D)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment
of bills only after notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed
bills. The town’s form for application for utility service and all bills shall
contain, in addition to the title, address, room number and telephone number of
the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and easily readable
provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (E)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (F)   When it becomes necessary for town to discontinue utility service to a
customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after all
bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge as
follows:
 
Reconnection Fee
1st          $50
2nd          $100
3d           $400
4th          $500
 
(Prior Code, § 17-103)
§ 50.04 RIGHTS RESERVED TO INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   The town reserves the right to shut off service without notice, for repairs,
extensions, nonpayment of rates or for any other reason, and no liability shall
attach therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 17-104)
§ 50.05 DAMAGING EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to destroy or injure any water
pipe, hydrant, faucet, pole or other sewer or water equipment erected or placed
by or belonging to the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 INTERFERENCE WITH MAINS, FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to disturb, interfere with,
open, operate, close, turn on, turn off, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect
anything with any fire hydrant, or stop any valve or stop cock belonging to the
town. However, this section shall not apply to any member of the Fire
Department when in the lawful discharge of his or her duties as such or to any
person endeavoring to prevent or put out any fire in any lawful manner.
(Prior Code, § 17-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 TAMPERING WITH METERS UNLAWFUL.
   The tampering with water meters or meter boxes of the town, or the placing
of any bypass connection on or around the meters, or the use of any other
device tending to interfere with the proper registration of same is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.08 PROCEDURE FOR GOVERNING BOARD TO SET UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Board of Trustees shall establish future rates, charges, deposits and
fees for utility services by ordinance, motion or resolution, as the case may
be. A copy of the current rates and charges shall be available in the Town
Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 17-108)
§ 50.09 UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   All fees and charges in connection with any customer’s use of
the town’s sanitary sewer system or the operation of the town’s collection and
disposal of refuse and garbage are billed in accordance with applicable rates.
All fees and charges owing for any of these utility services shall be billed on
one monthly bill submitted to the customer each month.
      (2)   In the event the customer is not the property owner, the owner
shall be held jointly responsible for nonpayment of utility bills. Any
delinquent charges for utility service must be paid before such sendee can be
reestablished subsequent to service discontinuance.
   (B)   Upon sale or transfer of ownership by any means of property upon which
a sewer account exists, the new property owner shall present a copy of the deed
for review and copying by the Town Clerk-Treasurer and pay a $25 one-time
transfer fee.
(Prior Code, § 17-109)
§ 50.10 PROPERTY OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR RENTER UTILITY SERVICE, BILLS.
   Owners of real property which is rented or leased to another shall be held
responsible for paying utility fees and accounts chargeable to their rental
properties.
(Prior Code, § 17-110)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Accumulations of garbage and refuse
   
51.03   Collection of garbage and rubbish
   
51.04   Contract and disposal
   
51.05   Incineration
   
51.06   Inspections
   
51.07   Fees
   
51.08   Duty to request garbage service
   
51.09   Charges to be on utility bill
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter, or both, likely to
decay or usually discarded as waste matter from kitchens, dining rooms, hotels,
restaurants, boarding houses and dwelling houses of every kind, and shall
include such waste animal or vegetable matter from public institutions,
businesses, stores, markets or other establishments.
   PERSON. Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership or other entity.
   PREMISES. Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft or parts
thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs (which shall be cut into
lengths not exceeding three and one-half feet), leaves and the like, from any
premises within the town limits.
   RUBBLE. Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden or metal
refuse-like materials, longer, larger and/or heavier than refuse.
   TOWN HEALTH OFFICER. The person so designated to act by the Town Board of
Trustees, at a compensation also set by the Town Board of Trustees, if any.
   TRASH. Any accumulation of broken or discarded boxes, glass, metal vessels
or containers, paper, straw, sawdust, ashes, iron or other metal, clothing,
trimmings from trees, shrubs, grass or gardens, and such other similar waste
matter usually discarded by business establishments or occupants of dwellings
or living quarters.
(Prior Code, § 17-401)
§ 51.02 ACCUMULATIONS OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   It is the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning, managing,
operating, leasing or renting any premises or any place where garbage or
rubbish accumulates, to provide and at all times to maintain in good order and
repair, on any premises a portable container or containers for refuse which
shall be made of galvanized metal or equivalent, not easily corrodible, rodent-
proof and fly-proof, with a tight-fitting lid which shall not be removed except
when depositing or removing the contents of the receptacle, and with handles on
the sides, and of sufficient capacity and in sufficient numbers to accommodate
and securely keep all of the garbage and rubbish that may accumulate between
collections; provided, that each container shall have a capacity of not more
than 32 gallons, except where the approved type of bulk storage containers are
in use. All containers shall be kept clean and free from the accumulation of
any substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would
attract flies, mosquitoes and any other insects.
   (B)   All containers shall be kept in a convenient location for collection,
as designated by the Town Board of Trustees, whereby collectors can obtain same
without going into buildings, garages, locked gates or fenced yards with dogs.
All containers and grounds immediately around same shall be kept in a safe and
sanitary condition at all times.
   (C)   All ordinary accumulations of rubbish such as tree limbs, paper boxes
and scrap lumber which cannot be conveniently placed in the containers required
by this chapter shall be gathered together and baled, tied or sacked in compact
bundles, weighing not more than 50 pounds and placed in a location easily
accessible to the collector.
   (D)   There shall be no open burning on the premises, unless approval is
obtained from the town officials.
(Prior Code, § 17-402) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   The town or its authorized representative shall collect from all areas
of the town not less than once weekly all garbage and rubbish. It is the duty
of any person in possession or control of any premises to place the containers
required by this chapter in a location easily accessible to the collector as
directed by the town officials.
   (B)   The places having rubble and excessive accumulations of garbage and
rubbish may be excluded from the service, and such accumulations shall then be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having charge;
provided, that the owner, person having such accumulations in charge, or
collection agent shall secure permission from the town officials for removal
and disposal of same.
   (C)   Carcasses of animals such as cows, horses and mules shall be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having same in charge and
by the method directed by the town officials.
   (D)   Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken concrete, ashes, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees and other bulky, heavy materials shall be
disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same under the
direction of the town officials.
   (E)   Manure from cowlots, horse stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts and
other animals or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations or
materials considered hazardous and/or dangerous, shall be removed and disposed
of at the expense of the person controlling same in the manner and by the
method directed by the town officials.
   (F)   The placing of garbage or rubbish or any refuse material in any street
or alley within the town limits or the disposal of such refuse at any place
within the town limits, except at such place as may be directed by the town
officials, is prohibited.
   (G)   The meddling with refuse containers or in any way pilfering,
scattering contents or junking in any alley or street within the town limits is
prohibited.
   (H)   Trimmings from trees and shrubs, if too bulky for such containers, may
be cut in short lengths and placed at or near the trash container.
   (I)   It is unlawful for any person not duly authorized as provided in this
chapter to tamper with, overturn, remove or destroy any garbage or trash
container of a residence or business or other establishment in the town.
   (J)   All vehicles used in the collection, removal or disposal of garbage
and trash shall be so constructed as to prevent such waste matter from
spilling, blowing or falling off while being transported. Such vehicles shall
be subject or inspected by any person authorized to enforce the provisions of
this chapter and, if found to be defective or unfit for such service, shall not
be used therefor until such defect is remedied and the use of the vehicle
approved by such official.
(Prior Code, § 17-403) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 CONTRACT AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The town shall have authority to enter into contractual obligation
with those who wish to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse
disposal for compensation in the town. The town shall be limited to contracting
for such service to contract only with persons having proper equipment, meeting
State Department of Health requirements and sufficient personnel to collect and
dispose of refuse in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and
provided further that the method of disposal contracted for must be in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Every person desiring to engage in the collection and disposal of
refuse shall have the right to make written application to the town and shall
make written application, setting forth the name of such person, the residence
address thereof or the address of the place of business, a description of the
equipment to be used in the collection and/or disposal of such refuse, the
place of disposal and the method of disposal to be practiced. Upon approval of
application all bids will be considered six months prior to the expiration of
the then existing contract, if any.
   (C)   Any person whose application has been denied may request and shall be
granted a hearing before the Town Board of Trustees.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person who does not do so under a contract with
the town to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal for
compensation in the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-404) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 INCINERATION.
   The disposal of garbage and rubbish shall be by an approved method of
incineration (not open burning) or by landfill and daily cover.
(Prior Code, § 17-405)
§ 51.06 INSPECTIONS.
   It is the duty of the town officials, and they are hereby directed, to make
all necessary inspections and investigations of any and all premises to see
that the terms of this chapter are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 17-406)
§ 51.07 FEES.
   There is charged, assessed and collected from each residential and
commercial unit such amounts as are set out by resolution of the Public Works
Authority trustees.
(Prior Code, § 17-407)
§ 51.08 DUTY TO REQUEST GARBAGE SERVICE.
   To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the town, it is the duty
of every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of any premises
located on a regularly established garbage route to notify the Town Garbage
Department at the beginning of such occupancy and request, accept and use the
garbage pickup and collection service; provided, however, that failure of any
owner, rental agent or occupant of such premises to make such request shall not
prevent nor in any way impair or impede the town from adding the address of
such premises to the proper garbage collection route records and providing such
service and otherwise enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory measures
herein prescribed and causing the fees or charges therefor to be paid.
(Prior Code, § 17-408)
§ 51.09 CHARGES TO BE ON UTILITY BILL.
   All bills for sanitary (refuse) service charges shall be included on a
utility bill, carrying the same due dates, grace periods and penalties as
applicable bills.
(Prior Code, § 17-409)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 17-410)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Conformance to rules and regulations
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Connections
   
52.04   Charge to be made for permit
   
52.05   Compliance with ordinances and laws
   
52.06   Sewer service charge levied
   
52.07   User charge schedule
   
52.08   Review and revision
   
52.09   Toxic pollutants charges
   
52.10   Notification
   
52.11   Charges for extraneous flows
   
52.12   Records
   
52.13   Procedures; required connection to sewer
   
52.14   Prohibited discharges
   
52.15   New sewers and connections
   
52.16   Sewer disconnection
   
52.17   Connections prohibited
   
52.18   Disconnection required
   
52.19   Access
   
52.20   Civil remedies
   
52.21   Notice to owner
Highway 66 Sewer System Assessment Area
   
52.35   Purpose
   
52.36   Area described
   
52.37   Costs
   
52.38   Zones
   
52.39   Fees
   
52.40   Payment in platted tracts
   
52.41   Payment in nonplatted tracts
   
52.42   Reservation of authority
   
52.43   Consent to annex
   
52.44   Properties not located in assessment area
   
52.45   Purpose of fees
   
52.46   Termination of service
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 CONFORMANCE TO RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All connections to the sewers of the town shall conform to the rules and
regulations prescribed by the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-301)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SANITARY SEWAGE or SEWAGE. The liquid waste which may or may not contain
solids originating in the sanitary conveniences for the personnel of a
dwelling, business building, factory or institution.
   SANITARY SEWER or SEWER. Includes all sanitary sewer trunk lines, main
lines, submain lines, lateral lines and sewage treatment plants, and all sewer
lines connected to the town’s sewer lines or treatment plants whether owned by
the town or not.
   USER OF THE SEWER SYSTEM. The person, firm or corporation having a contract
for water service at a particular location, if the location has a sanitary
sewer connection with the town’s system, or in case there is no water contract
on file then the person, firm or corporation which is charged with water bills
for the location, or which pays the same, or in case a private water supply is
used, then the proprietor of the location having the sewer connection.
(Prior Code, § 17-302)
§ 52.03 CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall hereafter make any connection on
any public sewer or any connection on any private sewer which in turn is
connected with a public sewer, without complying with the rules and regulations
herein set out. No person, firm or corporation shall connect more than one
building to a single service line leading to the public sewer system of the
town without having first obtained a special permit to do so from the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Multi-family dwellings may be required to have more than one service
connection. The size and quantity of such service connections would be
calculated as to the number of living units therein.
(Prior Code, § 17-303) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 CHARGE TO BE MADE FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A charge prescribed by §
52.06 for each connection made on the sanitary sewer system of the town,
regardless of whether the connection is made on what has heretofore been
designated as a public sewer or a private sewer, is hereby levied for the right
of the person, firm or corporation to make the connection to the sanitary sewer
system of the town.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be the duty of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or
designated authority of the town, to make this collection for issuing a permit
to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 17-304)
§ 52.05 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCES AND LAWS.
   Any person who connects to the sewers of the town in violation of this
chapter or any other ordinance of the town or of the laws of the state will be
denied further sewer service until such ordinances and laws are complied with.
It shall be the duty of the plumbing inspector or other person designated by
the Town Board of Trustees to disconnect any sewers which have not been
connected in compliance with the ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 17-305)
§ 52.06 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE LEVIED.
   (A)   For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the sanitary
sewerage system of the town and for other purposes, there is hereby fixed and
established charges for the use of the sanitary sewer system to be levied
against each respective user thereof with the town in such amounts and
according to such classifications of users as the Board by resolution or motion
may determine.
   (B)   A copy of the current charges in effect shall be kept on file in the
Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 17-306)
§ 52.07 USER CHARGE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   As the BOD, suspended solids and other pollutant concentrations
discharged shall be approximately equal to the domestic users, users shall be
charged on a volume basis in accordance with the following formula (based on
Model No. 1, 40 C.F.R. part 35, Appendix B).
 
Cu = Cb + C~/V~(Vu)
Symbols and definitions:
C~ Total operation and maintenance (O&M) cost per unit of time
Cb A user’s base minimum charge (for debt requirement, billing, administration
   and the like) per unit of time
Cu A user’s charge for O&M per unit of time
V~ Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time (may include
   extraneous flows)
Vu Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
 
   (B)   (1)   For any user, when the BOD exceeds 200 mg/l (maximum limit for
average domestic waste), the suspended solids exceeds 200 mg/l (maximum limit
for average domestic waste), or when other pollutant concentrations exceed the
range of concentration of these pollutants in normal domestic sewage, a
surcharge shall be added to the basic charge.
      (2)   This surcharge shall be calculated by the following formula (based
on Model No. 2, 40 C.F.R. part 35, Appendix B).
Cs= (Bc(B) + Sc(S) + Pc(P))Vu
Symbols and definitions:
B  Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level
Bc O&M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
Cs A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength
P  Concentration of pollutant from a user above a base level
Pc O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant
S  Concentration of 55 from a user above a base level
Sc O&M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids (SS)
Vu Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
 
(Prior Code, § 17-307)
§ 52.08 REVIEW AND REVISION.
   (A)   The user charge ordinance shall be reviewed not less than every two
years regarding the wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the
total costs of the operation of maintenance of the treatment works and its
approved user charge system.
   (B)   The charges for users or user classes shall be revised to accomplish
the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the treatment works; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year, and
the rates shall be adjusted accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 17-308)
§ 52.09 TOXIC POLLUTANTS CHARGES.
   Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the treatment works shall
pay for such increased costs.
(Prior Code, § 17-309)
§ 52.10 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Each user shall be notified at least annually, in conjunction with the
regular bill, of the sewer use rate and the portion of the user charges which
are attributable to wastewater treatment services.
   (B)   Costs shall be broken down to show the operation and maintenance costs
attributable to that user.
(Prior Code, § 17-310)
§ 52.11 CHARGES FOR EXTRANEOUS FLOWS.
   The costs of operation and maintenance for all flows not directly
attributable to users (such as infiltration/inflow) shall be distributed among
users on the same basis as operation and maintenance charges.
(Prior Code, § 17-311)
§ 52.12 RECORDS.
   A recordkeeping system shall be established and maintained to document
compliance with federal regulations pertaining to the user charge ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 17-312)
§ 52.13 PROCEDURES; REQUIRED CONNECTION TO SEWER.
   (A)   The owners of all houses, buildings or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a sanitary sewer line of the town, is hereby
required to install suitable toilet and sewage disposal facilities directly
with the public sanitary sewer system, in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, within 30 days after official notice to do so.
   (B)   At such time as a public sanitary sewer line becomes available to a
property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall
be made to the public sanitary sewer system in compliance with this section,
and any septic tank, cesspool and any similar private sewage disposal facility
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable materials. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge into the public sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   When sanitary sewer facilities become available, the failure to
connect any dwelling, public building, commercial or industrial building with
such facilities within 30 days, shall result in the disconnection of any such
building from the town’s water lines by the Town Water Department, and the
owner of any such building shall become subject to a fine of the same amount
per month as such building would be charged if it were connected to the sewer
system. The fine shall continue each month until such connection is made. A
charge shall be made for reconnection of water service to any such building.
   (D)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sanitary sewer line of
appurtenance thereof and before commencement of the construction of any
dwelling, public building, commercial or industrial building shall obtain a
written permit signed by the Clerk-Treasurer. The application for such permit
shall be made on a form furnished by the town, and the connection shall be
inspected by a person designated by the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
any building with the public sanitary sewer system shall be borne by the owner.
The owner of any such building shall indemnify the town for any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or connection
of such building with the public sanitary sewer system.
   (F)   Restaurants and other commercial food preparation outlets shall
install grease taps to limit the entry of such materials into the town sanitary
sewer system. In the event that such discharges do enter the sewer system, the
cost of removal will be borne by the offending user.
(Prior Code, § 17-313) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste which by itself or
by interaction with other wastes may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      (3)   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   (B)   All discharges shall be prohibited except those that meet the criteria
for domestic wastewater; BOD concentration shall not exceed 200 mg/l (maximum
limit for average domestic wastewater); SS shall not exceed 200 mg/l (maximum
limit for average domestic wastewater).
   (C)   All industrial discharges are prohibited. At the present time, there
are no industrial users in the town. If an industrial user should desire to
locate in the town and make use of the sewerage system, an industrial cost
recovery system will be initiated in accordance with EPA and state regulations
at that time to compensate for his or her use of the system.
   (D)   Any new connections from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portion of the sewer system shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 17-314) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.15 NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the International Building Code and other
applicable rules and regulations of the town.
   (B)   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Department of Health regulations.
   (C)   When a public sewer becomes available (within 150 feet), the building
sewer shall be connected to the sewer within 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 17-315)
§ 52.16 SEWER DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   Notification must be given to the town prior to disconnection of a
building sewer from the town sewer system. Such disconnection shall be done in
a manner as to eliminate any open access to the town sewer.
   (B)   Should a building sewer be abandoned, due to relocating a mobile home
or any other reason, the town shall, after due process, perform the necessary
work required to safeguard the public health and the town sewer system. The
resultant costs of such work will be billed to the property owner of record. In
the event payment is not received within 30 days, the town shall file a lien
against the property in question. Such lien shall be released upon payment of
the amount owed.
(Prior Code, § 17-316)
§ 52.17 CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to connect any roof downspouts, interior or exterior
foundation drains, sump pumps, areaway drains or other sources of surface
runoff or groundwater directly or indirectly to the town sewage system or to a
building sewer or building drain which is connected to the town sewage system.
(Prior Code, § 17-317) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 DISCONNECTION REQUIRED.
   All existing connections (direct or indirect) of roof downspouts, interior
or exterior foundation drains, sump pumps, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to the town sewage system or to a building sewer
or building drain which is connected to the town sewage system shall be
immediately disconnected, even though such connections may have been allowed
when made under then existing ordinances. Each owner of properly located in the
town shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with this section. Any owner
of property who fails to comply with the provisions of this section by the
effective date of this subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject
to the penalties set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 17-318)
§ 52.19 ACCESS.
   (A)   Right to enter and inspect. The town officials and employees shall
have the right to enter and inspect any property in the town for the purpose of
determining compliance with this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to refuse to
permit any town official or employee access to any property in the town for
such purpose.
   (B)   Notice. If the property to be inspected is occupied, the town official
or employee shall first present proper identification and request access for
the purpose of determining compliance with this subchapter. If such property is
unoccupied, the town official or employee shall first make a reasonable effort
to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the property
and request access for such purpose.
   (C)   Search warrants.
      (1)   If the town official or employee is denied access to any property
for the purpose of determining compliance with this subchapter, or the owner or
other person having charge or control of the property cannot be located, the
town official or employee, by application to a court of competent jurisdiction,
may maintain an action to compel access for the purpose of inspecting the
property to determine compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   In the event of an action to enforce compliance with this
subchapter under this section, all costs of proceedings under this subchapter
(including costs of determining the owner and service of notices, reasonable
attorneys’ fees and court costs) shall be assessed as a special assessment
against the property, and the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall, at the time of
certifying other town taxes, certify the unpaid portion of the aforesaid costs,
and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county
against the property.
(Prior Code, § 17-319) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   (A)   Abatement of prohibited connection. If the town official or employee
determines, following an inspection of property, that connections prohibited
this subchapter are located on the property, the town official or employee
shall notify the owner of such determination. If the prohibited connections
have not been disconnected within 30 days following such notice, the town
official or employee, by application to a court of competent jurisdiction, may
maintain a civil action by injunction to abate and the continuing connection of
roof downspouts, interior or exterior foundation drains, sump pumps, areaway
drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to the town sewage
system. In the event of a civil action to enforce compliance with this
subchapter under this section, all costs of proceedings under this subchapter
(including costs of deter mining the owner, service of notices, inspection of
the property, abatement of the nuisance, reasonable attorneys’ fees and court
costs) shall be assessed as a special assessment against the property, and the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall, at the time of certifying other town taxes, certify
the unpaid portion of the aforesaid costs, and the County Clerk shall extend
the same on the tax rolls of the county against the property.
   (B)   Termination of service. If a connection prohibited by §
52.03 is not disconnected, and the town official or employee given notice of
such disconnection and access to the property for the purpose of confirming
such disconnection, within 30 days after notice of the town’s intention to
terminate service, the town may terminate sanitary sewage service to such
property.
(Prior Code, § 17-320)
§ 52.21 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, OWNER shall mean the person or
persons who, alone, jointly or severally with others, is shown as the owner of
the property on the tax records of the county relating to real property.
   (B)   Notice(s) to the owner may be given in person or by United States mail
and, if given by mail, will be deemed to have been delivered three days after
deposit in United States mail, postage prepaid, to the address of the owner of
the property set forth in the tax records of the county relating to real
property.
(Prior Code, § 17-321)
HIGHWAY 66 SEWER SYSTEM ASSESSMENT AREA
§ 52.35 PURPOSE.
   It is the purposes of this subchapter to promote public health, safety and
welfare by constructing and maintaining a sewer line from a point between West
151st Street, South and West 131st Street, south, along State Highway 66. This
improvement shall be known as and referred to within this subchapter as the
“Highway 66 Sewer Extension.”
(Prior Code, § 17-501)
§ 52.36 AREA DESCRIBED.
   The Highway 66 Sewer Extension is hereby established as the area depicted on
the map attached to the ordinance codified in this subchapter as Exhibit A.
Said map shall be made a part of this subchapter. This area shall be designated
as the assessment area. All property within the assessment area may connect to
the Highway 66 Sewer Extension subsequent to the effective date of this
subchapter, and pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 17-502)
§ 52.37 COSTS.
   (A)   All costs associated with the construction of the Highway 66 Sewer
Extension, including costs for the acquisition of the land or easements,
construction costs, professional fees, interest and other lawful and authorized
costs and fees, shall be recouped through an assessment per acre for all
property located within the assessment area. The assessment amount per acre
shall be established subsequent to approval of this subchapter through the
adoption of a resolution by the town or the Public Works Authority after all
costs have been paid and the construction of the Highway 66 Sewer Extension has
been completed.
   (B)   A minimum assessment shall be established for any tract comprising
less than one acre, and said fee shall be equal to the assessment for one acre.
(Prior Code, § 17-503)
§ 52.38 ZONES.
   The assessment area may be divided into zones of relative proximity to the
Highway 66 Sewer Extension, and different assessment rates may be established
by the town’s Public Works Authority as above provided.
(Prior Code, § 17-504)
§ 52.39 FEES.
   This assessment shall be paid as a fee for connection to sewer services for
properties developed henceforth in the assessment area. Payment of this
assessment is mandatory and may only be waived or reduced by demonstrating
special circumstances and obtaining approval of a waiver or reduction by a
majority vote of all of the members of the Board of Trustees of the town’s
Public Works Authority. Payment of the assessment shall be due upon approval of
a final plat or upon connection to the Highway 66 Sewer Extension, whichever
shall first occur.
(Prior Code, § 17-505)
§ 52.40 PAYMENT IN PLATTED TRACTS.
   For platted tracts, payment of said assessment shall be due upon the
approval of a final plat and shall be for all acres contained within the
platted area.
(Prior Code, § 17-506)
§ 52.41 PAYMENT IN NONPLATTED TRACTS.
   Payment of said assessment for any nonplatted tract within the assessment
area shall be at the time of connection to the Highway 66 Sewer Extension. The
area to be included for the purpose of determining the assessment fee shall be
all property owned by the applicant within the assessment area which is
contiguous to the connection site.
(Prior Code, § 17-507)
§ 52.42 RESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.
   The town and the town’s Public Works Authority hereby reserves the authority
to determine the loads or flows allowed and the number and type of connections
permitted to the town sanitary sewer system within the assessment area in order
not to exceed capacities or overload its treatment facilities.
(Prior Code, § 17-508)
§ 52.43 CONSENT TO ANNEX.
   Properties which are in the assessment area but are not in the municipal
boundaries of the town shall be required to make a nonrevocable consent to
annexation to the town, in order to connect to the sanitary sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 17-509)
§ 52.44 PROPERTIES NOT LOCATED IN ASSESSMENT AREA.
   Properties not located within the assessment area may request connection to
the Highway 66 Sewer Extension upon a majority vote of all of the members of
the Board of Trustees of the town’s Public Works Authority. The amount of the
assessment shall be determined by a majority vote of all of the members of the
Board of Trustees of the town’s Public Works Authority. Payment of the
assessment shall be due upon approval of a final plat or upon connection to the
Highway 66 Sewer Extension, whichever shall first occur.
(Prior Code, § 17-510)
§ 52.45 PURPOSE OF FEES.
   The assessment fee provided herein is only for the purposes of connecting to
the Highway 66 Sewer Extension. The town’s Public Works Authority shall, from
time to time, by resolution of its Board of Trustees, set monthly fees and
charges for discharge into its sanitary sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 17-511)
§ 52.46 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Payment of the assessment fee imposed herein shall not prevent the
town’s Public Works Authority from terminating any customer’s privilege of
discharging sewage into the sanitary sewer system for violations of its rules
and regulations regarding discharge into the system or for the failure to pay
for sewer services provided. In the event that sewer services are terminated in
accordance with the rules and procedures of the town’s Public Works Authority,
a reconnect or access fee shall be imposed and paid for each terminated
connection before service shall be restored.
   (B)   Such reconnect or access fee shall be in the amount established by
resolution of the town’s Public Works Authority in its rules and procedures for
termination of sewer service; provided, however, that in such event, new
assessment fees as provided herein shall not be required.
(Prior Code, § 17-512)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.21 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not as set forth in §
10.99. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation for the purpose of determining the maximum fine permitted.
(Prior Code, § 17-323)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.35 through
52.46 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not as set forth in §
10.99. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation for the purpose of determining the maximum fine permitted.
(Prior Code, § 17-514)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Application of this traffic code
   
70.03   Vehicle equipment generally
   
70.04   Size, weight of vehicles; vehicles more than 25,000 pounds
   
70.05   Securing loads
   
70.06   Inspection of vehicles by officers
   
70.07   Opening and closing of vehicle doors
   
70.08   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
70.09   Unlawful riding
   
70.10   Authorizing or permitting violations prohibited
   
70.11   Application to animal-drawn vehicles
   
70.12   Working on streets; exceptions
   
70.13   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.14   Operation of fire vehicle
   
70.15   Approach authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.16   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
70.17   Crossing fire hose
   
70.18   Duty of police
   
70.19   Accident, duty to stop, leaving scene of accident
   
70.20   Issuance of citation tags
   
70.21   Failure to obey citation
   
70.22   Failure to comply with traffic citations attached to parked vehicle
   
70.23   Illegal cancellation of traffic citations
   
70.24   Disposition and records of traffic citations; warrants and complaints
   
70.25   Court records; State Department of Safety
   
70.26   Eluding police officer prohibited
   
70.27   Adoption of State Traffic Code
   
70.28   Insurance or certificate required
Impoundment of Vehicles
   
70.40   Purpose and effect of impoundment provisions
   
70.41   Place of impoundment
   
70.42   Duration of impoundment
   
70.43   Police granted authority to impound vehicles
   
70.44   Disabled vehicles
   
70.45   Vehicles on bridge
   
70.46   Arrest and detention of driver of vehicle
   
70.47   Vehicle constitutes traffic hazard
   
70.48   Illegal trespass by vehicle
   
70.49   Vehicles parked over time limit
   
70.50   Vehicles blocking fire exits or hydrants
   
70.51   Vehicles parked in intersection
   
70.52   Stolen vehicles; recovery by police
   
70.53   Vehicles with outstanding traffic citations
   
70.54   Inventory of impounded vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, definitions in the laws of the state
regulating traffic and the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public passageway or street which affords only secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property and having no legal or official name
other than alley.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two or three tandem wheels any of which is more than 20 inches in
diameter.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of Fire Departments, police vehicles and
ambulances.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately
at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this code placed or erected by authority of a public body
or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any officer of the Town Police Department or any other
officer authorized by law to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   STOP. Complete cessation from movement, when required. When prohibited, STOP
or STOPPING means any halting even momentarily of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or
signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH STREET. Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to yield right-of-way to
vehicles on such through street in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this traffic code.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated by which traffic alternately is directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 15-101)
§ 70.02 APPLICATION OF THIS TRAFFIC CODE.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to every street, highway,
alley, roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, every other public way either
within or outside the corporate limits of the town, the use of which the town
has jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
   (B)   Those upon land owned by the town;
   (C)   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the town; and
   (D)   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-102)
§ 70.03 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped
as required by law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the town which is not equipped
as required by law;
      (2)   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use
it in a manner prohibited by law; or
      (3)   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a
street in the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-103) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 SIZE, WEIGHT OF VEHICLES; VEHICLES MORE THAN 25,000 POUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall drive on or convey through any street any vehicle the
width, height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state
law, except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the
Town Chief of Police.
   (B)   No vehicle with a gross vehicle weight exceeding 25,000 pounds shall
be operated upon the streets, alleys and other public ways within the town,
except on state highways, and except on routes designated within the town as a
truck route.
    (C)   Mail carriers, garbage collection vehicles, service vehicles and fire
trucks shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Delivery trucks, while making an actual delivery shall be exempt from
the provisions herein, except that such delivery truck shall utilize truck
routes to the point nearest the point of delivery before operating on any
street or public way which has not be posted as a truck route.
   (E)   No vehicle, truck or trailer, having a gross vehicle weight exceeding
25,000 pounds may be parked upon public streets, easements, alleys or other
public ways of the town for a period exceeding 24 hours.
   (F)   (1)   No vehicle, truck or trailer, having a gross vehicle weight
exceeding 25,000 pounds may be parked upon public streets, easements, alleys or
other public way in a residential area or immediately adjacent to a residential
area of the town except for such time as may be necessary to load or unload
such vehicle.
      (2)   During such time, said vehicle shall not be unattended.
   (G)   No vehicle, truck or trailer, having a gross vehicle weight exceeding
25,000 pounds which is parked upon public streets, easements, alleys or other
public way of the town shall leave its engine or any refrigeration engine
running while such vehicle is unattended.
(Prior Code, § 15-104) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 SECURING LOADS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
salt may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock,
poultry or agricultural products except baled agricultural products, but any
such truck shall be constructed or loaded as to prevent the livestock or
poultry from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 15-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES BY OFFICERS.
   Police officers have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is
properly equipped and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair.
(Prior Code, § 15-106)
§ 70.07 OPENING AND CLOSING OF VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 15-107) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 15-108) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 15-109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him or her,
registered in his or her name or under his or her control to be driven, parked
or stopped in violation of any provision of this traffic code. No parent of any
child or guardian of any ward shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit such
child or ward to violate any provision of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 APPLICATION TO ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle except
those provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 15-111)
§ 70.12 WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Town employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the town, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving
or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the Board of Trustees, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance or
construction. In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   (B)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) above and traffic-control devices or barricades have been erected,
it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through, under, over or
around the traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the
closed area. The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to persons
while engaged in the construction, maintenance and repair, or to persons
entering therein for the protection of lives or property. Persons having their
places of residence or places of business within the closed area may travel,
when possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees, personnel or
contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic-control
devices to warn and guide the public; and every person using the street shall
obey all signs, signals, markings, flagmen or other traffic-control devices
which are placed to regulate, control and guide traffic through the
construction or maintenance area.
(Prior Code, § 15-112) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code shall not apply to a driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or when in
the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to
but not upon returning from a fire alarm. The exemptions herein granted to an
authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of the vehicle
while in motion, sounds audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may
be reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, except that an
authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped
with or display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (B)   These provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 15-113)
§ 70.14 OPERATION OF FIRE VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of a Fire Department vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call but not while returning from such call, may be granted
exemptions from certain provisions of the town traffic code, to-wit:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespectively of the provisions of the traffic
code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
 
      (3)    Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as it does not endanger
life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   (B)   The exemptions herein granted to a Fire Department vehicle shall apply
only when the driver of any vehicle is making use of audible and visual signals
as required by law.
   (C)   These provisions shall not relieve the driver of a Fire Department
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of reckless
disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 15-113.1)
§ 70.15 APPROACH AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this state,
or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal
only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to the
right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 15-114)
§ 70.16 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle other than on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet
or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 15-115) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 15-116) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 DUTY OF POLICE.
   The Police Department shall have the power to enforce the street traffic
regulations of this town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in this town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the town in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
condition. Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or
in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 15-117)
§ 70.19 ACCIDENT, DUTY TO STOP, LEAVING SCENE OF ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his or her vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close
thereto as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he
or she has given his or her name, address and the registration of his or her
vehicle and shall, upon request, exhibit his or her driver’s license to the
person injured or the driver or occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle
collided with, and shall render to any person injured in such accident
reasonable assistance, including the carrying or making arrangement for the
carrying of such persons to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical and
surgical treatment if it is apparent that this treatment is necessary, or if
such is requested by the injured person.
      (2)   Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than
is necessary.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is
apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of $300
shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a police officer or to
the Police Department.
      (2)   If a driver makes out a written report of the accident in the
office of the Police Department as soon as practicable after the accident,
which report is to be forwarded to the State Department of Public Safety in
accordance with state law, the driver shall be deemed to be in compliance with
this section.
   (C)   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements
of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined as provided in §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 15-118) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original and at
least two duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this traffic code.
   (B)   Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   (C)   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him or her into custody.
   (E)   The Town Board of Trustees may require that the police officers use
citation tags furnished by the Finance Department and that such tags are
serially numbered and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
(Prior Code, § 15-119)
§ 70.21 FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his or her written
promise to appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which citation was originally
issued.
(Prior Code, § 15-120) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATIONS ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking
under the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic
citation affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five days, the clerk
of the municipal court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him or her of the violation and
warning him or her that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of
five days, a warrant of arrest may be issued.
   (B)   On any occasion where two or more such traffic citations have been
affixed on the same motor vehicle and the traffic citations have been
disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the letter
provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-121)
§ 70.23 ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any
traffic citation in any manner other than is provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-122) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 DISPOSITION AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS; WARRANTS AND COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of this town shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his or her immediate superior officer, who shall cause the
original to be delivered to the municipal court.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the original citation in the municipal court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by
the municipal court which are delivered to the Police Department for service,
and of the final disposition of the warrants.
   (D)   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter or deface a traffic citation or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint or
warrant, in a manner other than as required in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-123)
§ 70.25 COURT RECORDS; STATE DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY.
   (A)   The municipal court clerk shall keep a record of every traffic
citation deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of
every official action by the court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in
reference thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal and the amount of fine or forfeiture.
   (B)   Within ten days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a person
upon a charge of violating any provision of this chapter or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the municipal judge or clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of Public Safety a
certified abstract of the court’s record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   (C)   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the State
Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, the
registration number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the
date of hearing, the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the
amount of the fine or forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 15-124)
§ 70.26 ELUDING POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or
audible signal directing the operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop
shall willfully increase his or her speed or extinguish his or her lights or in
any other manner attempt to or actually elude such law enforcement officer.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a VISUAL OR AUDIBLE SIGNAL means a
red light and a siren from a law enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle
with insignia showing the same to be an official police, Sheriff or highway
patrol car.
(Prior Code, § 15-125) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE.
   The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code (47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.)
and the Rules of the Road (47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.) are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference and are enforceable by the town within the
town limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 15-126)
§ 70.28 INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating
the vehicle within the town’s boundaries shall carry in such vehicle at all
times a current owner’s security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been used by the State Department of Public Safety
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   (B)   The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or operator’s
security verification form or an equivalent form from the Department during
operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such form for
vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law, being 74 O.S. §§ 7-600 et seq. according to records
of the Department of Public Safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-
insurance or fleet policy;
      (3)   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the State Corporation Commission;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47
O.S. §§ 7-600 and 7-606.
      OPERATOR’S POLICY. An operator’s policy of liability insurance which
shall insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him
or her by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by him or her of
any motor vehicle not owned by him or her, subject to the same limits of
liability required in an owner’s policy.
      OWNER’S POLICY. An owner’s policy of liability insurance which:
         (a)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate
reference all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
         (b)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other
person, except as provided in division (c) of this definition, using an insured
vehicle with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against
loss from the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
         (c)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing laws; and
         (d)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
      SECURITY.
         (a)   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
         (b)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
         (c)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the State Board for
property and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by
the state’s Compulsory Insurance Law.
   (D)   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall,
while operating or using such vehicle within the town’s boundaries, carry
either an operator’s or an owner’s security verification form issued by a
carrier, providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an
equivalent form issued by the Department of Public Safety, reflecting liability
coverage.
   (E)   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the Department upon request of any peace officer of the Department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in §
70.99.
   (F)   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   (G)   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the Department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitle to dismissal of such charge.
   (H)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court
clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of Public Safety within
ten days reflecting the action taken by the court.
(Prior Code, § 15-127)
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
§ 70.40 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT PROVISIONS.
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 15-501)
§ 70.41 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by
the Town Board of Trustees, and to no other place.
(Prior Code, § 15-502)
§ 70.42 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the
authority of this subchapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for
its release is received from an officer of the Traffic Violations Bureau or
other proper police officer.
   (B)   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
   (C)   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until all
fines and costs due the town because of traffic law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 15-503)
§ 70.43 POLICE GRANTED AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this subchapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order
of an authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures
required in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-504)
§ 70.44 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 15-505)
§ 70.45 VEHICLES ON BRIDGE.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any
tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-506)
§ 70.46 ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER OF VEHICLE.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leave or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-507)
§ 70.47 VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-508)
§ 70.48 ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE.
   (A)   An unattended vehicle trespassing on property of another may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   (B)   If an illegal trespass by vehicle occurs, the owner or legal occupant
who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking the vehicle on
the owner’s or legal occupant’s property, or if the identity of the person
parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed against the
registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall
allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of the
property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   (C)   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of this
section have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage.
(Prior Code, § 15-509) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.49 VEHICLES PARKED OVER TIME LIMIT.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of §
70.04, regarding more than 24 hours, shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-510)
§ 70.50 VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-511)
§ 70.51 VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Prior Code, § 15-512)
§ 70.52 STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE.
   (A)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in
the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place to impoundment
and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of
the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department.
   (B)   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
or her own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one
hour from the time he or she is actually notified of its recovery, and if the
owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified
the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-513)
§ 70.53 VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which two or more citations have been issued, for violation
of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-514)
§ 70.54 INVENTORY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his or her property, the protection
of town law enforcement personnel and the protection of the garage or wrecker
service moving or holding the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 15-515)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any violations of the provisions of this traffic code shall be punishable by
fine or imprisonment as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 15-601)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Operation of vehicles generally
   
71.02   Driver’s license required
   
71.03   Vehicle license required
   
71.04   Unlicensed vehicles
   
71.05   Starting a parked vehicle
   
71.06   Drive on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.07   Right-of-way generally
   
71.08   Vehicle turning left
   
71.09   Reckless driving
   
71.10   Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics
   
71.11   Driving on sidewalk
   
71.12   Limitations on backing
   
71.13   Corner cutting
   
71.14   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
71.15   Through traffic on Buffalo Street
Speed Limits
   
71.30   General rule
   
71.31   General maximum speed limit
Turning and Signals
   
71.45   Required position; method of turning at intersections
   
71.46   Turn and U-turns
   
71.47   Turning, stopping; signals required
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY.
   Every person operating a vehicle in the town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
town and state, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians and
property of others.
(Prior Code, § 15-201)
§ 71.02 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person who does not have a driver’s license as
required by state law for operation of a vehicle upon the state highways, to
operate a motor vehicle within the town or to operate a motor vehicle within
the town in violation of any restriction applied to the driver’s license.
(Prior Code, § 15-202) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive, propel, move or park on the streets of this town any
motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer unless the motor vehicle, trailer or
semi-trailer is licensed as required by state law and the license is
conspicuously displayed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 15-203) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle not bearing a
current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street or highway within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 15-204) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 STARTING A PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety.
(Prior Code, § 15-206) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement; or
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane when available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 15-207)
§ 71.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY GENERALLY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street, provided that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state
or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
(Prior Code, § 15-208)
§ 71.08 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn left shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but the driver, having so yielded and having given a signal
when and as required by this traffic code, may make such left turn, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from such opposite
direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 15-209)
§ 71.09 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the town.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, RECKLESS DRIVING shall include any
person who drives a motor vehicle in willful or wanton disregard for the safety
of persons or property or at a heedless or dangerous rate of speed.
(Prior Code, § 15-210) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR NARCOTICS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to drive, operate or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle within this town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or under the
influence of any narcotic, drug, barbiturate, amphetamine, marijuana or who is
under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him or her
incapable of safely driving a motor vehicle to drive a motor vehicle within
this town. The fact that any person charged with a violation of this division
(B) is or has been lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug, barbiturate,
amphetamine, marijuana or other drug shall not constitute a defense against any
charge of violating this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 15-211) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 15-212) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 15-213)
§ 71.13 CORNER CUTTING.
   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any
parking facility except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the
services offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking
facility. No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across
any parking facility for the purpose of shortening his or her travel distance,
avoiding a traffic-control device, avoiding using the streets for travel or
turning a vehicle so as to proceed in opposite direction on the street from
which it entered the drive.
(Prior Code, § 15-214) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 15-215)
§ 71.15 THROUGH TRAFFIC ON BUFFALO STREET.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the safety and
welfare of residents by limiting through traffic on Buffalo Street for vehicles
over one ton.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      THROUGH TRAFFIC. Vehicular traffic that is not originating from or
destined for the area along Buffalo Street.
      VEHICLE OVER ONE TON. Any motor vehicle or combination of vehicles with a
manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight rating of more than 2,000 pounds.
   (C)   Regulation. No vehicle over one ton shall use Buffalo Street as a
through street. This restriction will be enforced with appropriate signage
posted at both ends of Buffalo Street.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Vehicles owned or operated by the town or its contractors while
conducting official business; or
      (3)   Deliveries to properties along Buffalo Street.
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-14-2025) Penalty, see §
71.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.30 GENERAL RULE.
   (A)   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead.
   (B)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
division (A) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when driving upon any narrow or
winding roadway and when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
(Prior Code, § 15-220) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.31 GENERAL MAXIMUM SPEED LIMIT.
   No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this chapter, shall
be driven at a speed greater than 25 mph upon any street within this town. The
Board of Trustees may determine that certain other speed regulations shall be
applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in which event it shall
be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed
so declared when signs are in place giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-221) Penalty, see §
71.99
TURNING AND SIGNALS
§ 71.45 REQUIRED POSITION; METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection and after entering the intersection
the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the
centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn
shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of
the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 15-250)
§ 71.46 TURN AND U-TURNS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right turn, left turn or U-turn, and shall
place proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in
which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be
removed when such turns are permitted.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
turn or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 15-251) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47 TURNING, STOPPING; SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left except upon giving
a signal of intention, as provided in this section, in the event any other
traffic may be affected by such movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, when required, shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
except upon the giving of a signal of intention, as provided herein, to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity to
give such signal.
(Prior Code, § 15-252) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any individual found in violation of §
71.15 shall be subject to a fine of $300 for each offense.
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-14-2025)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Obstructing traffic or driveways
   
72.02   Park within indicate space
   
72.03   Proximity to curb, parallel parking
   
72.04   Angle parking, designation
   
72.05   Obedience to angle parking rules
   
72.06   Parking prohibitions in specific areas
   
72.07   Parking prohibitions on certain streets; time limits
   
72.08   Designation of loading zones
   
72.09   Standing in loading zone
   
72.10   Prohibition against selling merchandise from parked vehicles
   
72.11   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
72.12   Handicapped parking; enforcement on public or private property
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley
in such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 15-230) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 PARK WITHIN INDICATE SPACE.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space.
(Prior Code, § 15-231)
§ 72.03 PROXIMITY TO CURB, PARALLEL PARKING.
   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall be so stopped or parked
in the direction of lawful traffic movement with the curbside wheels of the
vehicle parallel to and within 18 inches of the curb or roadway edge.
(Prior Code, § 15-232)
§ 72.04 ANGLE PARKING, DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may determine upon what streets angle parking is
permitted and shall direct the marking or signing of the streets. Angle parking
shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where passing traffic would
thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side of the street.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, ANGLE PARKING shall mean parking at
the curb at approximately a 45-degree angle between the right side of the
vehicle and the curb.
(Prior Code, § 15-233)
§ 72.05 OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING RULES.
   (A)   On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking,
no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings with the front of the
vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking spaces
designated by markings upon the pavement unless the vehicle is positioned
within the confines of an individually marked space. The vehicle shall not be
of such length, or positioned in a manner, as to protrude into the street a
distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes or drive
on the left side of the street.
(Prior Code, § 15-234) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 PARKING PROHIBITIONS IN SPECIFIC AREAS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street except as authorized otherwise in this section;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (f)   On any railroad tracks; or
         (g)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within ten feet of a crosswalk at an intersection; except in
marked parking spaces;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
   (B)   Any business, garage or filling station duly licensed by the state
and/or town may reserve such portions along the curb in front of their
establishments as is necessary to be used by them or their customers in the
conduct of their business. Those desiring to avail themselves of the benefits
of this division (B) shall provide markers on the curb designating the space so
reserved at their own expense.
(Prior Code, § 15-235) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 PARKING PROHIBITIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS; TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle at any time upon any of the designated streets, except
when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked, stored, stood or otherwise left on any
street in the town for a period of time longer than 24 hours.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may by resolution or ordinance regulate the
manner and time limit in which vehicles shall be parked upon the streets of the
town or may in such manner prohibit the parking of vehicles or trailers in
designated areas and violations of such regulations now in force or hereafter
made shall constitute a violation of this chapter; provided, that after such
regulations are put into effect, signs shall be posted at either end of the
regulated or restricted area.
(Prior Code, § 15-236) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 DESIGNATION OF LOADING ZONES.
   The Board of Trustees may determine the location of passenger and freight
curb loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating
the same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 15-237)
§ 72.09 STANDING IN LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and
then only for a period not to exceed three minutes.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
   (C)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 15-238) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 PROHIBITION AGAINST SELLING MERCHANDISE FROM PARKED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street in the town
and offer merchandise for sale therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided
in this traffic code, the sale of merchandise from parked vehicles on streets
in the town is declared to be dangerous to traffic and to the persons
congregating around the vehicle and constitutes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 15-239) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   (B)   The presumption in division (A) above shall apply only when the
procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 15-240)
§ 72.12 HANDICAPPED PARKING; ENFORCEMENT ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such
person has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions of 47 O.S. §
15-112, and such insignias are displayed as provided in 47 O.S. § 15-112 or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
by a fine as provided in §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 15-241) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES
Section
   
73.01   Obedience to devices
   
73.02   Necessity of signs
   
73.03   Interference with devices, signs or signals
   
73.04   Presumption of legality
   
73.05   Ratification of existing devices
   
73.06   Traffic-control signal legend
   
73.07   Flashing signals
   
73.08   Driving within traffic lanes
   
73.09   One-way streets, alleys designation
   
73.10   Designation of through streets
   
73.11   Signs at through streets
   
73.12   Procedures at stop signs
   
73.13   Procedure at yield signs
§ 73.01 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-301)
§ 73.02 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   (A)   No provision of the part for which official traffic-control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and
place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   (B)   Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-
control devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 15-302)
§ 73.03 INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 15-304)
§ 73.05 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the adoption of this traffic code and in use for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and
declared to be official traffic-control devices, provided such traffic-control
devices are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law.
(Prior Code, § 15-305)
§ 73.06 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend. These lights shall
indicate appropriate action and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as
provided by applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 15-306)
§ 73.07 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (slop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(Prior Code, § 15-307)
§ 73.08 DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
   (B)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within
a single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or where
such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such
allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use
a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 15-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 ONE-WAY STREETS, ALLEYS DESIGNATION.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any ordinance or resolution of this town designates any
one-way street or alley, the appropriate town personnel shall place and
maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective
unless the signs are in place.
      (2)   Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated
as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the
indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected
and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction
is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 15-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.10 DESIGNATION OF THROUGH STREETS.
   The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may designate any street or
part of a street a through street.
(Prior Code, § 15-310)
§ 73.11 SIGNS AT THROUGH STREETS.
   Whenever a through street is designated by the Board of Trustees, the
appropriate town personnel shall be directed to place and maintain a stop sign,
or on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any intersection
a yield sign, on each and every street intersecting such through street unless
traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control
signals.
(Prior Code, § 15-311)
§ 73.12 PROCEDURES AT STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 15-312)
§ 73.13 PROCEDURE AT YIELD SIGNS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, or if no stop line, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway. The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he or she
is driving, and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so
yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding, provided, however, that
if such driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or
vehicle in the intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping,
such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his or her failure to
yield the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 15-313)
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
74.01   Regulations applicable generally
   
74.02   Traffic laws and regulations apply
   
74.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
74.04   Riding on bicycles
   
74.05   Use right side of roadway
   
74.06   Riding abreast
   
74.07   Speed
   
74.08   Riding on sidewalks
   
74.09   Lights and reflectors
Golf Carts and Utility Vehicles
   
74.20   Operation
 
   
74.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 74.01 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any act
required by the provisions of this subchapter. The parent of any child or the
guardian of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter are applicable to bicycles operated
upon any street or highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 15-401) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 TRAFFIC LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of this town applicable to the driver of
a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and except as to
those provisions of law and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 15-402)
§ 74.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right turn,
left turn or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey
the direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the
bicycle to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
   (C)   Any person may walk bicycles and shall then be subject to all laws
applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 15-403) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 15-404) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 USE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(Prior Code, § 15-405)
§ 74.06 RIDING ABREAST.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 15-406)
§ 74.07 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 15-407) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   Bicycles may not be ridden upon any sidewalk within the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-408) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09 LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS.
   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on
the frame which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the State Department of Public Safety, which shall be visible from all
distances from 300 feet to 500 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful upper beams of headlamps of a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(Prior Code, § 15-409)
GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES
§ 74.20 OPERATION.
   (A)   Golf carts and utility vehicles may be operated on all town streets
that have a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less.
   (B)   The provisions of §
71.04, governing the operation of vehicles upon any street within the municipal
limits of the town shall be applicable to golf carts and utility vehicles, as
they are defined in 47 O.S. § 11-1102.
   (C)   An annual permit fee of $50 per unit shall be paid to the town before
such a vehicle may be permitted to operate on the municipal roadways.
   (D)   Only persons with a valid drivers’ license may operate golf carts and
utility vehicles with a verification of liability insurance on municipal
streets.
(Ord. 2021-001, passed 2-9-2021) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Operating a golf cart or utility vehicle on a municipal roadway
without a current annual permit for the vehicle shall be subject to the owner
of said vehicle to a $200 fine.
(Ord. 2021-001, passed 2-9-2021)
CHAPTER 75: RAILROADS
Section
   
75.01   Climbing on trains
§ 75.01 CLIMBING ON TRAINS.
   It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to or in any manner attach
himself or herself to, any railway train, locomotive or railway car, while such
is in motion within the town, unless such person is acting in line of duty, or
to board any train or railroad car, including a passenger, freight or other
car, except with a proper ticket or the permission of the person in charge of
the train or car or in line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 16-103) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
94.   CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Weeds and Trash
   
90.01   Accumulation of trash and weeds unlawful
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Reports of accumulation of grass, weeds or trash on property
   
90.04   Receipt of report, hearing and notice
   
90.05   Work done by employees or contract
   
90.06   Determination and assessment of costs
   
90.07   Lien on the property, civil remedy
   
90.08   Service of notice
   
90.09   Unlawful to deposit rubbish
   
90.10   Burning refuse
   
90.11   Removal of dead animals
   
90.12   Unlawful to litter
   
90.13   Unlawful to litter from automobiles
   
90.14   Litter not to accumulate on property
Food Regulations
   
90.25   U.S. Food Service Sanitation Ordinance adopted
   
90.26   Milk ordinance adopted
   
90.27   Grade requirements
Nuisances
   
90.40   Definitions
   
90.41   Persons responsible
   
90.42   Time does not legalize
   
90.43   Remedies
   
90.44   Town has power to define and summarily abate nuisances
   
90.45   Certain public nuisances in the town defined
   
90.46   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
90.47   Abatement by suit in district court
   
90.48   Nuisance unlawful
   
90.49   Health nuisances; abatement
   
90.50   Toilet facilities required; nuisance
   
90.51   Procedure cumulative
Enforcement
   
90.65   County Health Department to enforce
   
90.66   Obstructing Health Officer
   
90.67   Quarantine; violations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
WEEDS AND TRASH
§ 90.01 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH AND WEEDS UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or parcel
of land situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the town to
allow trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises.
   (B)   It is the duty of such owner or occupant to remove or destroy any such
trash or weeds.
(Prior Code, § 8-101) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste or matter of any kind or form which is uncared
for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEEDS.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption or own in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community of a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of the weeds;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term WEED does not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(Prior Code, § 8-102)
§ 90.03 REPORTS OF ACCUMULATION OF GRASS, WEEDS OR TRASH ON PROPERTY.
   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation of trash
or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises
within the limits of the town, shall report the condition to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer if, as a result of the accumulation or growth, the premises appear to
be:
   (A)   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community;
   (B)   A hazard to traffic;
   (C)   A fire hazard to property; or
   (D)   Any two or more of these conditions.
(Prior Code, § 8-103)
§ 90.04 RECEIPT OF REPORT, HEARING AND NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receiving the report provided for in §
90.01, or upon receipt of equivalent information from any reliable source, the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall place the matter upon the agenda of the Town Board
for hearing and consideration at an appropriate date which will permit the
giving of the notices prescribed by state law.
      (2)   At the hearing, the Board shall consider whether the premises, by
reason of the conditions specified, are detrimental to the health, benefit and
welfare of the public and the community, or a hazard to traffic, or a fire
hazard to property, or any two or more of such conditions.
   (B)   (1)   At least ten days prior to the hearing, the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall give written notice of the hearing by posting upon the premises and by
forwarding a copy thereof by certified mail with return receipt requested to
the owner of the property at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls
in the office of the Treasurer of the county in which the property is located.
      (2)   If the return receipt shows that the property owner cannot be
located, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation one time not less than ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (C)   At least ten days from the date of receipt of the notice by the owner
or the date of publication and upon the date specified in the notice, the Town
Board shall hear the matter and shall receive information thereon, including
anything which may be presented by the owner of the premises, personally or by
agent or attorney. If the Board determines that any of the conditions specified
in §
90.01 exist upon the premises, it may order the property to be cleaned of
trash, or other trash or weeds to be cut, removed or destroyed unless within
ten days from the date of receipt of the notice or date of publication the
owner either:
      (1)   Cuts, removes or destroys the trash or weeds in accordance with the
notice; or
      (2)   Gives written consent authorizing the town to abate the trash or
weeds, thereby waiving his or her right to a hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)
§ 90.05 WORK DONE BY EMPLOYEES OR CONTRACT.
   The work ordered to be performed under §
90.02 maybe done by the employees of this town under supervision of the town’s
Utility or Sanitation Department, or it may be let by contract to the lowest
and best bidder, after appropriate notice, in the manner for letting other
contracts.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)
§ 90.06 DETERMINATION AND ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Upon the completion of the work ordered to be performed under §
90.03, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall report the cost thereof to the Town
Board. Such report shall be itemized as to each tract of property involved as
follows: labor, machinery rental or depreciation, fuel and supplies, cost of
notice, other costs and indirect costs of 5% of direct actual costs. The Board
shall examine the report and, after receiving appropriate information, shall
determine the total costs of the work.
   (B)   The Board shall direct the Town Clerk-Treasurer to forward a statement
and demand payment of the total cost by certified mail with return receipt
requested to the owner of the property at the address shown by the current tax
rolls in the office of the Treasurer of the county in which the property lies.
(Prior Code, § 8-106)
§ 90.07 LIEN ON THE PROPERTY, CIVIL REMEDY.
   (A)   If the costs of the work performed under this subchapter are not paid
within 30 days from the date of mailing the notice prescribed by §
90.04, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a certified statement of the
amount of the costs to the Treasurer of the county in which the property upon
which the work was done is located, in order that the amount be levied upon the
property and be collected by the County Treasurer in the manner prescribed by
the law of this state.
   (B)   The lien is coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other
taxes and special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and
liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the cost is fully
paid. At any time prior to collection as provided in this section, the town may
pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest
thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward
to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the
lien.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)
§ 90.08 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The service of all notices prescribed by this subchapter shall be evidenced
by the return of the officer making such service, certified in his or her
official capacity and filed in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8-108)
§ 90.09 UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT RUBBISH.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any rubbish, trash,
slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, trees, brush or any other refuse
or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley or in any ditch or watercourse, or
upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in this town.
(Prior Code, § 8-109) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 BURNING REFUSE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to willfully burn any trash or refuse or any type of
material within the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to burn trash, wastepaper, rubbish or
refuse except under a permit issued by the State Health Department or U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 8-110) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in this town
shall, within 24 hours after the death of such animal, remove its carcass, and
failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8-111)
§ 90.12 UNLAWFUL TO LITTER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, LITTERING is defined as throwing any
trash, refuse, wastepaper, tin can, bottles or any other object or substance
whatever upon the public streets, alleys, roadways and sidewalks of the town or
upon any real property owned or occupied by another.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to litter.
(Prior Code, § 8-112) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 UNLAWFUL TO LITTER FROM AUTOMOBILES.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw from any automobile or motor vehicle
being operated and driven upon and over the streets, alleys and roadways of the
town any litter, trash, wastepaper, tin cans or any other substance or refuse
whatever.
(Prior Code, § 8-113) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 LITTER NOT TO ACCUMULATE ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, occupying any real
property, either as tenant or owner, to allow trash, wastepaper, litter
objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of objects to
accumulate upon such real property or premises being so occupied or rented to
such an extent as to constitute a littering nuisance.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation occupying any real
property, either as tenant or owner, to allow accumulated trash, wastepaper,
litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of objects to
be carried from the occupied premises, either by the wind, elements or
otherwise to any adjoining or other real estate not so owned or occupied by the
offender.
(Prior Code, § 8-114) Penalty, see §
90.99
FOOD REGULATIONS
§ 90.25 U.S. FOOD SERVICE SANITATION ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   For the purpose of this section, HEALTH AUTHORITY shall mean the Director of
the County Health Department or his or her designated representative.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
§ 90.26 MILK ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Part II of the Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance 1965, recommended by
the U.S. Public Health Service, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference
to govern and regulate the production, transportation, processing, handling,
sampling, examination, grading, labeling and sale of milk and milk products
sold for ultimate consumption within the town limits or its police
jurisdiction; the inspection of dairy farms, dairy herds and milk plants; the
issuing and revocation of permits to milk producers, haulers and distributors.
   (B)   At least three copies of the Pasteurized Milk Ordinance shall be filed
in the office of the appropriate official. Sections 9, 16 and 17 of the
abridged ordinance shall be replaced, respectively by §§
90.27 and
90.99(B).
(Prior Code, § 8-202)
§ 90.27 GRADE REQUIREMENTS.
   Only Grade A pasteurized milk and milk products shall be sold to the final
consumer, or to restaurants, soda fountains, grocery stores or similar
establishments; provided, that in an emergency, or the grade which is unknown,
may be authorized by the health authority, in which case, such milk and milk
products shall be labeled “ungraded.”
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
NUISANCES
§ 90.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Consists of doing any unlawful act or omitting to perform a duty
or is anything or any condition which either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   PRIVATE NUISANCE. Every nuisance not included in the definition for public
nuisance is a PRIVATE NUISANCE.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A nuisance which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
§ 90.41 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)
§ 90.42 TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 8-303)
§ 90.43 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Public nuisances. The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      (1)   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      (2)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      (3)   Civil action; or
      (4)   Abatement:
         (a)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
         (b)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-304)
   (B)   Private nuisances. The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      (1)   Civil action; or
      (2)   Abatement:
         (a)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
         (b)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)
§ 90.44 TOWN HAS POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES.
   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the town has power to determine what is and
what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water supply,
outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the town
has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner
and an opportunity for him or her to be heard, if this can be done.
(Prior Code, § 8-306)
§ 90.45 CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES IN THE TOWN DEFINED.
   (A)   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   The sale or offering for sale of unwholesome food or drink; or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      (2)   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the town; or keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinance of the town;
      (3)   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      (4)   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punch boards or otherwise;
      (5)   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      (6)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      (7)   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the
ordinances of the town; or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
      (8)   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      (9)   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
or ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
      (10)   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      (11)   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance;
      (12)   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow
to fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      (13)   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (14)   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin or disease germs; and the premises on which such exist;
      (15)   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition;
      (16)   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated us to endanger the public safety;
      (17)   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      (18)   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare;
       (19)   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on
the public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district; or
      (20)   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the town, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   The above enumeration of certain public nuisances shall be cumulative
and not limit other provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private
nuisances either in more general or more specific terms.
(Prior Code, § 8-307)
§ 90.46 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be
such as to justify, and even to require the Mayor or other appropriate officer
or agency of the town government to take immediate and proper action summarily
to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more
deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police, the Town
Attorney, the building inspector, the electrical inspector, the plumbing
inspector or any other officer subordinate to the Mayor may submit through or
with the consent of the Mayor to the Town Board of Trustees, a statement as to
the existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the town or other
law, and a request or recommendation that it be abated. The Mayor, the health
officer and Board of Trustees or any resident or residents of the town may
submit such a statement and request a recommendation to the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether or not the alleged
nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the
subject, the Board of Trustees shall have power to subpoena and examine
witnesses, books, papers and other effects. Before proceeding to abate the
nuisance or have it abated, the Board of Trustees shall give notice of a
hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of any property concerned and an
adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing
can be given. Such notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be
given in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if their names and
addresses are known; but, if the names or addresses are not known, and the
peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a
notice of the hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation
within the town.
   (D)   If the Board of Trustees finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it
shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, the Board of Trustees shall direct the Mayor to abate the nuisance or to
have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 O.S. §
16. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the town
collectible as other debts to the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)
§ 90.47 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance the
town may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
§ 90.48 NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lessee or other person to create or maintain a nuisance within the town or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his or her control within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 8-310) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.49 HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the health officer
shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of any private premises in
the town to remove from such premises, at his or her own expense, any source of
filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of insects or
rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any other
condition adversely affecting the public health, within 24 hours, or within
such other time as may be in writing and may be served personally on the owner
or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the health officer
or by a police officer or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual place of
abode of the owner, occupant or agent, if known and within the state. If the
premises are unoccupied and the residence of the owner, occupant or agent is
unknown, or is without the state, the order may be served by posting a copy
thereof on the premises or by publication in at least one issue of a newspaper
having a general circulation in the town.
   (B)   If the order is not complied with, the health officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance
shall be added to the water bill or other town utility bill of the owner or
occupant if he or she is a user of water from the town water system or such
other utility service. The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill
to which it is added and shall become due and payable, and subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself. If
such owner or occupant is not a user of any town utility service, such cost,
after certification to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, may be collected in any manner
in which any other debt due the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-311)
§ 90.50 TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED; NUISANCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
      SANITARY PIT PRIVY. A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as
to conform with the specifications approved by the State Health Department.
      SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   (B)   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside,
are employed or congregate within this town shall install, equip and maintain
adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement by use of a
sanitary water closet. The closets and toilets hereby required shall be of the
sanitary water closet type when located within 200 feet of a sanitary sewer and
accessible thereto and of the sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a
greater distance from a sanitary sewer) or the water closet type emptying into
a septic tank system. A septic tank system may be used in such cases only if it
meets the standards of and is approved by the State Health Department.
   (C)   All human excrement disposed of within this town shall be disposed of
by depositing it in closets of the type provided for in this section. It is
unlawful for any owner of property within the town to permit the disposal of
human excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person to dispose of
human excrement within the town in any other manner.
   (D)   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner
different from that required by this section, and all closets so constructed,
situated or maintained as to endanger the public health, are hereby declared to
be public nuisances, and may be dealt with and abated as such. Any person
maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense and each day upon which
any such nuisance continues is a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-312) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.51 PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this subchapter
and by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative on to any
other penalties or procedures authorized.
(Prior Code, § 8-313)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.65 COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT TO ENFORCE.
   Anywhere in this chapter where the word or words “health officer” are used,
it shall be construed to mean the Director of the County Health Department or
his or her duly designated representative. It is the intent and purpose of the
Mayor and Town Board of Trustees to delegate the enforcement of the health
ordinances of this town as set out in this section, and any such decisions
rendered under this section shall be subject to review by the governing board
upon an appeal from an offender.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)
§ 90.66 OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with any
health officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
this town.
(Prior Code, § 8-402) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.67 QUARANTINE; VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully violate or refuse or omit to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the
Board of Health or any officer charged with enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 8-403) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any law or
code adopted by reference in this chapter is guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from continuing such
violations.
(Prior Code, § 8-404)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation found violating any provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.14 shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-115)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §
90.25 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99. In addition thereto, any person convicted of violation may be enjoined
from continuing the violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
      (2)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
90.25 through
90.27 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Keeping in annoying manner
   
91.03   Dogs running at large prohibited
   
91.04   Keeping, running at large of fowl
   
91.05   Keeping, running at large of livestock prohibited
   
91.06   Impoundment and sale of animals running at large
   
91.07   Registration and licensing of dogs
   
91.08   License tax and tag
   
91.09   Vicious dogs, females in heat, may be impounded
   
91.10   Cruelty to animals
   
91.11   Poisoning animal
   
91.12   Encouraging animals to fight
   
91.13   Kennels must be licensed
   
91.14   Buildings for animals
   
91.15   Town may enter into contract for operation of pound
   
91.16   Animal control officer
Rabies
   
91.30   Rabies vaccination
   
91.31   Dogs muzzled and cats confined
   
91.32   Vicious dog may be killed
   
91.33   Animal that bites to be reported and confined
   
91.34   Rabid animals
Dangerous Dogs
   
91.45   Definitions
   
91.46   Certification of registration for certain dogs required
   
91.47   Muzzle and restraint of certain dogs required
   
91.48   Confiscation of dangerous dogs
Livestock on Properties of Five Acres or More
   
91.60   Definitions
   
91.61   Permitted livestock and lot requirements
   
91.62   Shelter and fencing requirements
   
91.63   Waste and nuisance management
   
91.64   Exceptions and special permits
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, pig, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey or other animal or fowl.
   AT LARGE. Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under
the control of, or occupied by, the owner, and not under the control of the
owner, a member of his or her immediate family over 12 years of age or an agent
of the owner, by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner’s premises or not.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL. The business of or dealing in keeping, boarding or
selling dogs, having more than three dogs of the age of six months or more on
the same premises.
   NON-COMMERCIAL KENNEL. Keeping three or more dogs of the age of six months
or more but not as a business or compensation and not engaging in boarding or
selling dogs.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal
remains, or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten days or more,
shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog which has bitten, or attempted to bite any person without
undue provocation, or which attacks, or barks, or growls at and acts as if it
intended to attack or bite, or bites a person or persons, when not unduly
provoked.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
§ 91.02 KEEPING IN ANNOYING MANNER.
   The keeping of, or permitting the keeping of, any livestock, animals or fowl
within the corporate limits of the town in such a manner that it annoys or
bothers a person or persons, by barking, howling or otherwise, or disturbs the
peace and quiet of a person is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 4-102) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, dogs, whether licensed or
unlicensed, shall not be permitted to run at large upon the streets, public
places or public ways of the town or upon the property of persons other than
the owners, but shall be confined to the property or premises of the owners of
such dogs. Dogs may be permitted upon such streets, places or public ways and
off the premises of the owners if under the control of a competent person or
securely restrained by such person with a substantial leash or chain not to
exceed eight feet in length.
(Prior Code, § 4-102.1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 KEEPING, RUNNING AT LARGE OF FOWL.
   (A)   The keeping of or permitting fowl, including chickens, ducks, turkeys,
geese or other domestic fowl or to permit the same to run at large or to
trespass upon the premises of another is unlawful.
   (B)   An exception for the keeping of such fowl shall be granted, to allow
no more than 12 fowl per household without permit, to be issued by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   An adult person shall obtain a permit from the Town Clerk-Treasurer at
a nonrefundable cost of $25, and said permit shall identify the applicant by
name and address and also identify the location. In the event that the
applicant is not the owner, he or she must submit written approval of the
property owner with purchase of permit.
   (D)   Permits shall be made available during normal business hours.
   (E)   Permit holders must make appropriate accommodations to ensure that
said fowl are held upon the resident’s property and not allowed to run free or
impede upon the resident’s property, upon town property or upon property of
other residents of the town.
   (F)   By purchasing a permit and opting to own fowl, pursuant to this
section, residents accept all liability associated with ownership of said fowl.
   (G)   Failure to comply with the foregoing provisions or violation thereof
shall constitute a criminal offense against the town and is punishable as
provided by §
91.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-103) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 KEEPING, RUNNING AT LARGE OF LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The keeping of or permitting the keeping, within the boundaries of the
town, of any livestock, including horse, cow, mule, hog, sheep, goat or other
animal of similar kind, or to permit the same to run at large or to trespass
upon the premises of another is unlawful.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by state statutes or other provisions of
this code, the provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to persons
keeping livestock on tracts of real property within the boundaries of the town,
when all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The tract on which said livestock is kept is not less than five
acres in area;
      (2)   Tracts may consolidated to meet the size requirement of division
(B)(1) above; however, such consolidated tracts must be immediately contiguous
and adjacent to each other, and not separated by another tract, street or
alley;
      (3)   At least 15% of the perimeter of the tract or consolidated tracts
must be contiguous or adjacent to an exterior boundary of the town;
      (4)   If tracts are consolidated to meet the size requirement of division
(B)(1) above, that record ownership, as reflected on the County Assessors’ tax
rolls, must be identical for all such consolidated tracts;
      (5)   Said livestock shall not be owned by any person or entity other
than the owner of the tract of land or a member of such owner’s immediate
household; and
      (6)   Nothing herein shall waive, restrict or otherwise prevent
enforcement of the provisions of state statutes or this code regarding
sanitation, protection of the health and welfare of the citizens of the town or
the maintenance of nuisances.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any
animal is confined as required by ordinance so as to turn the animal at large,
or in any manner to turn the animal at large.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal
on any public school ground or other public property, federal, state, city or
other, on any railroad right-of-way or on any private property without the
consent of the person owning or controlling such property.
(Prior Code, § 4-104) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Livestock on properties of five acres or more, see §§
91.60 through
91.64
 § 91.06 IMPOUNDMENT AND SALE OF ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Chief of Police or any of the police officers of
the town to take into their possession any animal that may be in violation of
this chapter running at large upon the streets, curbing, alleys, public places
or trespassing upon the lands of any person within the corporate limits of the
town, and impound such animal. An animal impounded by virtue of this chapter
shall be released to the owner or person entitled to the possession thereof
upon payment of the cost of feeding such animal a sum as set by the Town Board
of Trustees and proof of vaccination and tag fees.
   (B)   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of any animal
impounded under this chapter does not procure the release of such animal within
48 hours after impoundment, the Chief of Police shall post a description of the
animal in the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office, which description shall give the
color, sex and description of the animal impounded and shall state that the
animal will be sold, or otherwise disposed of, unless it is released from
impoundment on a date not less than 72 hours from the date the notice or
description is posted in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of any animal
impounded under this section is known, the police officer shall notify him or
her, in writing or by telephone, that the animal will be destroyed unless the
owner or other person releases such animal from impoundment. If such animal is
not released from impoundment by the owner or person entitled to the possession
thereof prior to such date, the Chief of Police may sell the animal to the
highest bidder for cash, and the buyer shall thereafter have complete title to
such animal.
   (D)   From the proceeds of the sale of animals sold under this section,
there shall be first paid the cost of feeding the animals and the cost of
publishing the notice of sale. The residue shall be paid into the office of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and placed to the credit of the General Fund.
   (E)   Any authorized officer may enter on the premises of the owner or other
private premises to take an animal into custody which is in violation of this
chapter. If an animal illegally at large cannot be caught with reasonable
effort, the officer may kill it either on or off private premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-105)
§ 91.07 REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF DOGS.
   (A)   It is the duty of every person owning, keeping or harboring within the
town any dog six months of age or older to cause such dog to be registered with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer, by giving the Clerk-Treasurer a description of the
dog, including its name, breed and sex and the owner’s or keeper’s name and
address, and applying for and obtaining a license for such dog, within 30 days
after such dog reaches the age of six months or after the dog is brought into
the town. The annual license shall expire each year on December 31. Certificate
of vaccination is required before a license is issued, showing vaccination
within the previous six months.
   (B)   The registration and license tax provided in this chapter shall not
apply to a dog only temporarily brought and kept within the town, nor to a dog
brought within the town to participate in a dog show, nor to a “seeing eye” dog
when such dog is actually being used by a blind person to aid him or her in
going from place to place, nor to dogs being kept in kennels or pet shops for
sale.
(Prior Code, § 4-106)
§ 91.08 LICENSE TAX AND TAG.
   (A)   There may be imposed by motion or resolution of the Board a license
tax per annum on each dog in the town, Such tax shall be paid at the time the
annual license required by §
91.07 is obtained. Upon the payment of such tax to the Town Clerk-Treasurer,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt therefor and furnish the applicant a
duplicate thereof which duplicate receipt shall contain a description of the
dog upon which the tax was paid. The Clerk-Treasurer shall also issue an
appropriate tag to the applicant. The tag shall constitute a license for the
dog.
   (B)   The owner shall cause the tag received from the Town Clerk-Treasurer
to be affixed to the collar of the dog upon which the tax has been paid so that
the tag can easily be seen by officers of the town. The owner shall see that
the tag is so worn by the dog at all times.
   (C)   In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by applying to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, showing to him or her the original receipt, and paying a fee of
$0.50.
   (D)   All moneys collected from dog tax by the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be
paid into the Town Treasury and placed in the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-107)
§ 91.09 VICIOUS DOGS, FEMALES IN HEAT, MAY BE IMPOUNDED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner to permit a vicious dog, a female dog
during the breeding and mating period or an unlicensed dog, if the town
requires a license, to be at large, or for any such dogs to be at large.
   (B)   Any authorized officer of the town shall take into custody and impound
any animal running at large in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-108) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Willfully and maliciously pour on or apply to an animal any drug or
other thing which inflicts pain on the animal;
   (B)   Knowingly treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner; or
   (C)   Knowingly neglect an animal belonging to him or her or in his or her
custody in a cruel or inhumane manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-110) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 POISONING ANIMAL.
   It is unlawful for a person willfully to poison any dog or other animal
except a noxious, non-domesticated animal. It is unlawful knowingly to expose
poison so that the same may be taken by such an animal.
(Prior Code, § 4-111) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 ENCOURAGING ANIMALS TO FIGHT.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Instigate or encourage a fight between animals;
   (B)   Encourage one animal to attack, pursue or annoy another animal, except
a noxious non-domesticated animal; or
   (C)   Keep a house, pit or other place used for fights between animals.
(Prior Code, § 4-112) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 KENNELS MUST BE LICENSED.
   (A)   Any person owning or operating a commercial kennel must first secure a
license from the Town Clerk-Treasurer and pay a fee as set by the Town Board
per year for the license. The location and operation of a kennel shall be
subject to approval of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any person owning or operating a noncommercial kennel shall first
secure a special noncommercial kennel permit from the Clerk-Treasurer. The
permit may be rescinded if such keeping of dogs results in any nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-117)
§ 91.14 BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS.
   (A)   Every stable or building wherein any animal is kept within the town
shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be kept
clean and sanitary at all times.
   (B)   Every stable or building, if located within 200 feet of any tenement
or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store,
building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes or residence
other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which
such animal is kept, shall be provided with a water-tight and fly-tight
receptacle for manure, such size as to hold all accumulations in such manner as
to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept covered at
all times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse.
No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in such
receptacle.
   (C)   No stable, dog kennel, chicken coop, dovecote, rabbit warren, yard or
other establishment wherein animals are kept, shall be maintained closer than
40 feet to any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house,
retail food store, building used for educational, religious or hospital
purposes or residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the
premises upon which such animal is kept.
   (D)   Every stable, structure, pen, coop or place wherein an animal is kept
or permitted to be, shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition,
devoid of rodents and vermin and free from objectionable odors.
   (E)   Manure shall be hauled outside the town in a manner which does not
jeopardize the public health, or else shall be spread evenly upon the ground
and turned under at once or as soon as the weather permits.
   (F)   The health officer, upon complaint of any person, shall inspect any
structure or place where an animal is kept, and may do so on his or her own
initiative. He or she may issue any such reasonable order as he or she may deem
necessary to the owner of such animal to cause such animal to be kept as
provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He
or she may make a complaint before the municipal judge against any person for
violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order, but
this shall not abridge the right of others to make such complaint.
(Prior Code, § 4-118)
§ 91.15 TOWN MAY ENTER INTO CONTRACT FOR OPERATION OF POUND.
   The Board of Trustees is authorized to join into a cooperative effort with
the county or any other community in the county for the purpose of
establishing, operating and maintaining a pound for animals running in
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-119)
§ 91.16 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The animal control officer of the town may issue citations to persons who
violate provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-121)
RABIES
§ 91.30 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   It is the duty of the owner, keeper or harborer of every dog or cat in
the town, once each calendar year before May 1 thereof and, in the case of a
pup or kitten, before it is six months old, to cause such dog or cat to be
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian, secure a certificate of
vaccination from the veterinarian and attach to the collar of the dog or cat a
metal tag indicating the vaccination.
   (B)   No license shall be issued for the keeping of any dog in the town
until a certificate of such vaccination for the current year is exhibited to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 4-109)
§ 91.31 DOGS MUZZLED AND CATS CONFINED.
   (A)   When the health officer determines and certifies that a dog, a cat or
other animals in the town or within five miles of the town is or was infected
with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the town, the Board of
Trustees, by resolution, may order all dogs to be muzzled when at large within
the town and, if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined, during a period of
time to be determined by the Board of Trustees. Such resolution or an adequate
notice of its passage shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the town and shall go into effect on the date following such publication
unless the resolution prescribes a later time.
   (B)   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit an unmuzzled dog or a cat to be at large in violation of such
resolution, or for any such dog or a cat to be at large in violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-113) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 VICIOUS DOG MAY BE KILLED.
   Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of another when the
dog, without undue provocation, bites him or her or another person, or attacks,
or attempts to bite or attack, him or her or another person in such manner that
an ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that the person toward
whom the efforts of the dog are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise
physically harmed.
(Prior Code, § 4-114)
§ 91.33 ANIMAL THAT BITES TO BE REPORTED AND CONFINED.
   Any owner or custodian of an animal having any reason to believe that such
animal has bitten any person in the town shall immediately report such incident
to the Chief of Police of the town. Such animal shall immediately be confined
at the veterinary clinic chosen by the owner or custodian, under observation of
a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine, for a period of ten days to determine
if such animal be rabid. The cost of confinement shall be borne by the owner or
keeper of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 4-115)
§ 91.34 RABID ANIMALS.
   Any animal suspected of being rabid or of having been bitten by a rabid
animal may be confined by order of the health officer or Police Chief to
determine whether the animal is rabid. If a person has been bitten or if there
is good reason to believe that a person has been otherwise infected by such
animal, the health officer or Police Chief may have the animal put to death in
a humane manner and have it examined by medical authority to determine whether
it has rabies. All expenses incurred in confining the animal as provided in
this section shall be paid by the owner or keeper of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 4-116)
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 91.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity acting alone or in concert with other
local governmental units for enforcement of the animal control laws of the
town, county and state and the shelter and welfare of animals.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, contracted with or
appointed for the purpose of enforcement of this or any other ordinance
relating to the licensure of animals, control of animals or seizure and
impoundment of animals and includes any law enforcement officer or other
employee whose duties in whole or in part involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that:
      (1)   Has inflicted severe injury on a human being without provocation on
public or private
property; or
      (2)   Has been previously found to be potentially dangerous, the owner
having received notice of such by the animal control authority in writing and
the dog thereafter aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the safety of
humans.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing,
harboring, keeping, having an interest in or having control or custody of an
animal.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites on a
human either on public or private property.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE OF A DANGEROUS DOG. While on the owner’s property, a
dangerous dog shall be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure with at least 150 square feet of space for each dog
kept therein which is over six months of age, and which is suitable to prevent
the entry of children and designed to prevent the animal from escaping. Such
pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top and shall also
provide protection from the elements for the dog.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery.
(Prior Code, § 4-122)
§ 91.46 CERTIFICATION OF REGISTRATION FOR CERTAIN DOGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for an owner to have a dangerous dog in the state
without a certificate of registration issued under this section. This section
shall not apply to dogs used by law enforcement officials for police work.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a certificate of registration to
the owner of such animal if the owner presents to the animal control unit
sufficient evidence of:
      (1)   A proper enclosure to confine a dangerous dog and the posting of
the premises with a clearly visible warning sign that there is a dangerous dog
on the property. In addition, the owner shall conspicuously display a sign with
a warning symbol that informs children of the presence of a dangerous dog; and
      (2)   A policy of liability insurance, such as homeowners’ insurance, or
surety bond, issued by an insurer qualified under 36 O.S., in the amount of not
less than $50,000, insuring the owner for any personal injuries inflicted by
the dangerous dog.
   (C)   The town shall charge an annual fee of $10, in addition to regular dog
licensing fees, to register dangerous dogs. Fees shall be retained by the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-123) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 MUZZLE AND RESTRAINT OF CERTAIN DOGS REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for an owner of a dangerous dog to permit the dog to be
outside the proper enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a
substantial chain or leash and under physical restraining of a responsible
person over 16 years of age. The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not
cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration but shall
prevent it from biting any person or animal.
(Prior Code, § 4-124) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.48 CONFISCATION OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Any dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an animal
control authority if:
      (1)   The dog is not validly registered under §
91.46;
      (2)   The owner does not secure the liability insurance coverage or
surety bond required under §
91.46;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained in the proper enclosure; and
      (4)   The dog is outside of the dwelling of the owner, or outside the
proper enclosure and not under physical restraint of the responsible person.
(Prior Code, § 4-125)
LIVESTOCK ON PROPERTIES OF FIVE ACRES OR MORE
§ 91.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A structure that provides sufficient protection from
weather conditions and meets basic welfare standards for livestock.
   LARGE LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to, horses, cattle, bison,
mules, donkeys, sheep, goats, llamas and alpacas.
   LOT. A parcel of land within the town limits as recorded in county property
records.
(Ord. 2025-002, passed - -2025)
§ 91.61 PERMITTED LIVESTOCK AND LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Property owners may keep large livestock on lots within town limits
only if the lot size is five acres or greater.
   (B)   The maximum allowable livestock density shall be:
      (1)   One large livestock animal per acre of usable pasture land; and
      (2)   Additional animals may be permitted upon review and approval by the
Town Board based on pasture condition and waste management capacity.
(Ord. 2025-002, passed - -2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.62 SHELTER AND FENCING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Shelter. Property owners must provide adequate shelter for livestock
to ensure protection from extreme weather.
   (B)   Fencing. All livestock must be kept in secure enclosures to prevent
roaming onto neighboring properties or public roads.
(Ord. 2025-002, passed - -2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.63 WASTE AND NUISANCE MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Livestock owners must maintain their property in a sanitary condition,
preventing excessive odors, waste accumulation or conditions hazardous to
public health.
   (B)   Manure disposal shall comply with state and local environmental
regulations.
(Ord. 2025-002, passed - -2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.64 EXCEPTIONS AND SPECIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Special permits may be granted for agricultural, educational or
therapeutic livestock programs upon Town Council approval.
   (B)   Existing properties with livestock at the time of this subchapter
shall have six months to comply with new requirements.
(Ord. 2025-002, passed - -2025)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which no specific penalty is prescribed, or who violates, refuses
or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by the health officer or
Town Police Chief pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-120)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
91.45 through
91.48 by doing that which is prohibited or failing to do that which is
commanded shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished
by fine, in any amount not exceeding $200, plus court costs. Each calendar day
on which any section or provision of this chapter is violated shall be and
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-126)
   (C)   Violations of §§
91.60 through
91.64 shall result in:
      (1)   First offense: written warning and compliance order within 30 days;
      (2)   Second offense: fine of up to $250 per animal; and
      (3)   Third offense: possible removal of livestock and additional fines
as determined by the Town Board.
(Ord. 2025-002, passed - -2025)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
92.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
92.02   Enforcement
   
92.03   Definition
   
92.04   Storage of hazardous material
   
92.05   Modifications
   
92.06   Appeals
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the Town Board of Trustees for the purpose
of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the NFPA Fire Code published
by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), being particularly the
current edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended.
   (B)   Not less than one copy of the code has been filed in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated
as fully as if set out at length herein. The provisions of the NFPA Fire Code
shall be controlling within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-101)
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-102)
§ 92.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of the NFPA Fire Code adopted in §
92.01, the following definition shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Kellyville, Oklahoma.
(Prior Code, § 13-103)
§ 92.04 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.
   The limits referred to in the NFPA Fire Code, in which storage of flammable
liquids in outside above-ground tanks is prohibited, the limits referred to in
which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted and the limits in
which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby
established as the fire limits provided in Chapter 150.
(Prior Code, § 13-104)
§ 92.05 MODIFICATIONS.
   [Missing text.]
(Prior Code, § 13-105)
§ 92.06 APPEALS.
   [Missing text.]
(Prior Code, § 13-106)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   [Missing text.]
(Prior Code, § 13-107)
CHAPTER 93: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Library
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Established
   
93.03   Board of Directors
   
93.04   Term
   
93.05   Removal
   
93.06   Officers; rules
   
93.07   Librarian; budget
   
93.08   Library Fund
   
93.09   Reports
   
93.10   Appropriations
Park
   
93.25   Park hours, loitering after business hours
 
   
93.99   Penalty
LIBRARY
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the desire and intent of the Board of Trustees to provide free public
library service to the residents of the town, for the benefit of the town, the
state and the nation.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
§ 93.02 ESTABLISHED.
   The town public library is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 11-102)
§ 93.03 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The public library shall be governed by a Board of Directors consisting of
five members selected from the residents of the town with reference to their
fitness for such office by the Board of Trustees. Library Board Directors shall
serve thereon without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 11-103)
§ 93.04 TERM.
   (A)   Library Board members shall hold office for a term of three years May
1, following their appointment. At the first regular meeting of the Library
Board following adoption of this ordinance, the directors shall cast lots to
fill the following offices and terms:
      (1)   Office 1 expiring on May 1, 2000;
      (2)   Office 2 expiring on May 1, 2001;
      (3)   Office 3 expiring on May 1, 2001;
      (4)   Office 4 expiring on May 1, 2002; and
      (5)   Office 5 expiring on May 1, 2002.
   (B)   Vacancies in the Library Board of Directors shall be filled by
appointment by the Board of Directors of the town for the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 11-104)
§ 93.05 REMOVAL.
   Any member of the board of the Library Board of Directors may be removed by
the appointing authority or misconduct or neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 11-105)
§ 93.06 OFFICERS; RULES.
   (A)   Immediately after the initial appointment, the Library Board of
Directors shall meet and organize by electing one director as president, one
director as secretary and by electing such other officers as the board may deem
necessary.
   (B)   They shall adopt such rules and regulations for their own guidance and
for the governance and operation of the library as may be expedient and not
inconsistent with state laws, subject to approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 11-106)
§ 93.07 LIBRARIAN; BUDGET.
   The Library Board shall, with the approval of the Board of Trustees, appoint
a suitable librarian and assistants and set their compensation. The librarian
shall be the administrative officer of the library. The Library Board shall
recommend an annual budget to the governing body of the town. The Library Board
shall set the policy of the library, control the expenditure of all moneys
collected and placed to the credit of the library, supervise and care for the
grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set aside for the library.
(Prior Code, § 11-107)
§ 93.08 LIBRARY FUND.
   All moneys received by the Library Board on account of the operation of the
library shall be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, who shall deposit the same
in the Municipal Treasury in a special and separate account designated the
Library Fund. Such moneys shall be paid out only upon warrants authorized by
the Library Board of Directors and approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 11-108)
§ 93.09 REPORTS.
   (A)   The Library Board of Directors shall make reports quarterly and on or
before July 31 in each year, an annual report to the Board of Trustees. Such
report shall include the condition of its trust as of June 30:
      (1)   The various sums of money and property received by the library and
how such moneys have been expended;
      (2)   The budget for the library of the next fiscal year;
      (3)   Statistics on the general character and number of books and
periodicals which are on hand, are lost, have been added, have been loaned out;
and
      (4)   The number of persons making use of the library during the year.
   (B)   A similar report shall be filed at that time with the State Department
of Libraries on forms supplied by that Department
(Prior Code, § 11-109)
§ 93.10 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall annually appropriate to the Library Board of
Directors from funds available to the town such moneys as are deemed necessary
to operate and maintain the public library for the education and cultural
enrichment of the citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-110)
PARK
§ 93.25 PARK HOURS, LOITERING AFTER BUSINESS HOURS.
   (A)   (1)   The hours of operation of any town public park and the town
cemetery shall be 7:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. each day.
      (2)   No person shall be permitted in or upon park and cemetery property,
except during the stated hours, except upon advance written permission from the
Town Board of Trustees, Town Clerk-Treasurer or Chief of Police.
   (B)   No person under the age of 18 shall be permitted in or upon the town
park between sunset (as established by the United States Naval Observatory) and
10:00 p.m. unless accompanied by a responsible adult over the age of 25 years.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to use the town’s park recreational
equipment in a manner inconsistent with its intended use and purpose.
Skateboards, roller skates and roller blades shall not be used on park
recreational equipment and facilities, nor shall they be used on sidewalks and
pathways in any town park.
   (D)   (1)   Motorized vehicles shall not be used in the town parks nor off
any roadway in the town cemetery.
      (2)    For the purpose of this division (D)(1), MOTORIZED VEHICLES shall
include all motor vehicles designed for street and highway use, four-wheelers,
motor scooters, motorcycles, motorized bicycles, motorized skateboards, golf
carts, other electric motorized vehicles and any similar motorized device.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to loiter on or around the town public
library and Town Hall, its sidewalks and/or parking areas during the periods of
the day when said library and Town Hall are not open for business. Further,
skateboards, roller skates and roller blades shall not be used on the sidewalks
and parking areas of the library and Town Hall at any time.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter on or about the property
of any business, church, organization or individual, or to uses skateboards,
roller skates or roller blades, or any similar device, on the sidewalks or
parking areas of such business, church, school, organization or individual has
posted a sign thereon prohibiting the same.
(Prior Code, § 11-301) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
93.25 or any law or code adopted by reference in this chapter is guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 11-301)
CHAPTER 94: CEMETERY
Section
   
94.01   Conveyance of lots
   
94.02   Defacing, damaging prohibited
   
94.03   Removal of flowers prohibited
   
94.04   Containers
   
94.05   Sexton
   
94.06   Burial sites
   
94.07   Grave openings, interments
   
94.08   Grave marker base required
§ 94.01 CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The cemetery lots owned by the town shall be conveyed by certificates,
signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk-Treasurer, under the seal of
the town, specifying that the purchaser, to whom the same is issued, is the
owner of the lot or lots described therein by number, as laid down on the plat
on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, for the purpose of
interment, and such certificate shall vest in the purchaser, his or her heirs
and assigns, a right, in fee simple, to such lots for the sole purpose of
interment under the regulations of the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-201)
§ 94.02 DEFACING, DAMAGING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner deface, mutilate,
molest or damage any cemetery lot or grave space in the town cemetery. It shall
be unlawful for any person to deface, mutilate or disturb any monument, marker
or boundary marker upon any lot, portion thereof or grave space in the town
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 11-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 REMOVAL OF FLOWERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to disturb, remove or take
flowers or other grave decorations from any lot or grave space in the town
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 11-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 CONTAINERS.
   A concrete or steel box or container is required to be used in all burials
in the town cemetery, unless otherwise waived by the Board of Trustees or their
authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 11-204)
§ 94.05 SEXTON.
   (A)   The position of sexton is hereby created and shall have such duties as
the Board of Trustees shall prescribe. These duties would include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   The locating and layout of grave sites;
      (2)   Supervisory responsibility for grave openings and closings; and
      (3)   General care and maintenance of the town cemetery.
   (B)   The pay period for the sexton shall be the same as other municipal
employees. The compensation for such position shall be set by the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 11-205)
§ 94.06 BURIAL SITES.
   (A)   Burial sites shall be purchased from the Clerk-Treasurer at the Town
Hall.
   (B)   The cost of a burial site shall be according to a fee schedule,
adopted separately by resolution or motion.
(Prior Code, § 11-206)
§ 94.07 GRAVE OPENINGS, INTERMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer or sexton shall be notified at least 24 hours
in advance of a desired grave opening.
   (B)   All burials in the town cemetery shall be performed by town personnel
at the direction of the town sexton.
   (C)   Interment and burial fees are as set by the Board by motion or
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 11-207)
§ 94.08 GRAVE MARKER BASE REQUIRED.
   Any sections of the cemetery that shall be opened for the sale of burial
lots shall have the restriction that a low profile grave marker base shall be
used. Such base shall extend no more than one inch above the ground of the
burial lot and a minimum of six inches from the headstone on all sides. All
such arrangements to be approved by town sexton.
(Prior Code, § 11-208)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupational Licenses
   
110.01   License tax levied on certain occupations
   
110.02   Ex-service persons
   
110.03   Payment of license tax; issuance of license; expiration date
   
110.04   Separate licenses required
   
110.05   License to be displayed
   
110.06   License may be revoked
   
110.07   Transfer of license prohibited
   
110.08   Duplicate license
Specific Businesses
   
110.20   Proper operation of pool, billiard and other recreation halls
   
110.21   Fee for fortune telling prohibited
   
110.22   Taxicab and ride-share/ride-hailing service operators
 
   
110.99   Penalty
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
§ 110.01 LICENSE TAX LEVIED ON CERTAIN OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   A license tax is hereby levied on every person engaging in, exercising
or pursuing any of the following businesses, professions, trades, occupations
or privileges in this town, in the amounts respectively indicated:
      (1)   For each skating rink, $2 per day, $5 per week or $25 per year;
      (2)   For each itinerant show, exhibition or entertainment of any kind
which charges admission, including all activities under its auspices, $5 per
day. This division (A)(2) shall not apply to circuses, street fairs and
carnivals, nor to any athletic exhibition given by public or private schools,
nor to any event given under the auspices of a local nonprofit organization,
nor to any event from which all the proceeds go to some charitable or
eleemosynary cause;
      (3)   For each circus, street fair or carnival, $10 per day or $25 per
week. This division (A)(3) shall not apply to events sponsored by civic clubs
located in the school district or by the town;
      (4)   For each shooting gallery, skill or strength game, or game of
chance, such as knife boards, rag or wooden images or other thing or things at
which rings, balls or other things are thrown, pitched or shot, lung testing or
striking machine, or similar device, $2 per day or $5 per month. This division
(A)(4) shall not apply to games under the auspices of street fairs, carnivals
and circuses, nor to family recreation halls or arcades;
      (5)   For each Ferris wheel, merry-go-round, small cars or similar
apparatus, when not under the auspices of a street fair, civic club, carnival
or circus, $2 per day or $5 per month;
      (6)   For each itinerant person, agent or solicitor selling, offering for
sale, taking orders for, auctioning or offering to take orders for, goods,
products, wares, patent medicines, magazines, services or other things or
services of any kind, excepting wholesalers, and persons or organizations
licensed or regulated by the state, $20 per day, $30 per week or $50 per year.
The permit shall expire at sunset of the date issued. No proration of the fee
is permitted. This division (A)(6) shall not apply to persons representing any
charitable and nonprofit organizations located in or from the county; and
      (7)   For each person desiring to hawk or peddle farm or agricultural
products, including poultry and eggs, $5 for a term of three months, after
having produced sufficient evidence showing that the person has grown or
produced the products, and that the same have been grown and produced within a
radius of five miles from the town.
   (B)   In order to receive a license under this chapter, every person, firm
or corporation regulated pursuant to this section is required to possess a
valid and current state sales tax permit if such person, firm or corporation is
a vendor subject to collection of sales taxes under the sales tax code of the
town and state. A copy of this permit shall be provided by the applicant for a
license to the Clerk-Treasurer prior to issuance of the town license. The
Clerk-Treasurer may require any reasonable information from an itinerant or
peddler or solicitor which the Clerk-Treasurer deems desirable to protect the
public interest. For the purpose of this section, ITINERANT means not residing
in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)
§ 110.02 EX-SERVICE PERSONS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in other ordinances of the town shall be deemed
to require ex-service persons to secure a license or pay a license fee for
engaging in a business, occupation or privilege when he or she is exempted
therefrom by statutes of the state or other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 9-102)
§ 110.03 PAYMENT OF LICENSE TAX; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION DATE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, exercise or pursue any
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a license tax is
levied by §
110.01 or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without paying the
license tax, and securing and possessing a valid license therefor. Upon making
proper application to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, the payment of the license tax
and fulfillment of any other condition which may be prescribed by law or
ordinance, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license therefor. Such
license taxes shall be credited to the General Fund of the town.
   (B)   Annual licenses shall expire on April 30 of the year for which they
were issued. When an annual license is issued after May 1 for the remainder of
the year to a person just beginning to engage in, exercise or pursue a
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, the tax collected shall
be a fractional part of the annual tax equal to the fraction of the year
remaining, with a minimum of $5.
(Prior Code, § 9-103) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   Every person who engages in, exercises or pursues a business, profession,
trade, occupation or privilege for which a license is required, at or from more
than one place in the town, or who engages in, exercises or pursues more than
one such business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, shall pay the
fee and secure a separate license, for each such place or for each such
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege.
(Prior Code, § 9-104)
§ 110.05 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege, shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his or her place of business or activity
where a person who has entered the place may readily see it; or, if he or she
has no particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and
shall display it to any person who requests to see it.
   (B)   In lieu of the manner of displaying such licenses provided above, when
licenses are required for coin-operated music or amusement devices, vending
machines and similar devices and equipment, the license may be placed on or
attached to such device or equipment in such position and manner that it will
be clearly visible, and shall be so placed or attached if the license so states
on its face.
   (C)   It is unlawful to fail or refuse to display the license as required in
this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-105) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE MAY BE REVOKED.
   Any license issued by the town to any person to engage in, exercise or
pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege may be revoked
by the Board of Trustees after adequate opportunity for a hearing, for either
of the following reasons:
   (A)   The licensee is engaging in, exercising or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege in such a manner that he or she has
created or is creating a public nuisance as defined by state law or local
ordinance; or
   (B)   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-106)
§ 110.07 TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in this town.
(Prior Code, § 9-107)
§ 110.08 DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   Whenever any license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege, has been lost or destroyed without
any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the Clerk-Treasurer, on
application, shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the
duplicate is issued, the holder shall make and file with the Clerk-Treasurer an
affidavit that the license has not been transferred, that it has been lost or
destroyed without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder and that, if
believed lost, he or she has made diligent search for it and has been unable to
find it. The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the Clerk-
Treasurer, shall be set by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-108)
SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
§ 110.20 PROPER OPERATION OF POOL, BILLIARD AND OTHER RECREATION HALLS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of a pool, billiard
or other recreation hall to permit therein gambling, betting, operation of a
lottery or the sale, furnishing or drinking of intoxicating and nonintoxicating
beverages, disorderly conduct, loud or disturbing language, noise or music,
profane language or any other violation of the laws of the state or of the
ordinances of the town, or for any person to engage therein in such place.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of such a hall to
permit therein fighting, boxing, wrestling or other contests of physical
strength; or for any person to engage therein in such place.
   (C)   Any coin-operated amusement device, including pool and billiard
tables, shall be properly licensed pursuant to state law in order to operate
lawfully in the town.
   (D)   Pool, billiard and other recreation halls shall be closed between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 7:00 a.m. each day.
(Prior Code, § 9-109) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 FEE FOR FORTUNE TELLING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons pretending or professing to tell
fortunes by the use of any subtle craft, means or device whatsoever, either by
palmistry, clairvoyance or otherwise, plying his or her trade, art or vocation
within this town, to make any charge therefor either directly or indirectly, or
to receive any gift, donation or compensation by any means whatsoever for the
same.
(Prior Code, § 9-110) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.22 TAXICAB AND RIDE-SHARE/RIDE-HAILING SERVICE OPERATORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate one or
more taxicabs, ride-share/ride-hailing services in the town without securing an
operator’s license for each taxicab or ride-share/ride-hailing vehicle.
   (B)   Upon application, the town will issue such license upon the following
conditions.
      (1)   The applicant shall pay an annual license tax as set by the Town
Board of Trustees for each taxicab/vehicle to be operated.
      (2)   The applicant shall take out and file with the Town Board of
Trustees a standard public liability and properly damage insurance policy
providing public liability insurance for injury, including accidental death of
any person at least $25,000, and of more than one person at least $50,000; and
property damage insurance of not less than $25,000. Such license shall be in
effect only when such policy is in force. The license shall expire on April 30
of each year.
(Prior Code, § 16-201) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who engages in any business, profession, trade or occupation, or
exercises any privilege, for which a license is required by this chapter,
without a valid license as thereby required, or who shall violate any provision
of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99. Violation of this chapter shall also be grounds for revocation or
suspension of license granted.
(Prior Code, § 9-111)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Occupation tax levied; license to be issued
   
111.03   Payment of tax and securing of license required
   
111.04   Town Clerk-Treasurer’s annual report
   
111.05   Retail package stores; location
   
111.06   Separate premises for sale of alcoholic beverages and other goods
   
111.07   Days and hours of operation
   
111.08   Original package
   
111.09   Prohibitions
   
111.10   Package store sign
   
111.11   Advertising
Nonintoxicating Beverages
   
111.25   Definitions
   
111.26   License fee levied
   
111.27   License required
   
111.28   Compliance with law; expiration of license
   
111.29   Revocation of license
   
111.30   Minors not to be employed
   
111.31   Intoxicated persons; gambling; disorderly conduct
   
111.32   Sale and purchase to or by minors
   
111.33   Minors; possession of alcoholic beverages or beer prohibited
   
111.34   Drinking in public
   
111.35   Hours of sale
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   [Missing text.]
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
§ 111.02 OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED; LICENSE TO BE ISSUED.
   (A)   [Missing text.]
   (B)   [Missing text.]
   (C)   [Missing text] the cost of the yearly license, provided that the cost
of the license shall be computed on a monthly basis. Any license issued after
the fifteenth day of any month shall be charged for on the basis of the first
day of the next month.
   (D)   (1)   A person desiring to engage in any of the above businesses or
occupations within the town shall make application for a license therefor to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer and pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer the above required
occupation tax.
      (2)   If the applicant carries on his or her occupation in more than one
location within the town limits, he or she shall be subject to tax for each
location. If the applicant holds a valid state license to engage in the
business or occupation within the town issued by the Director of the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, if the application is in accordance with this
chapter, and if the applicant has paid the required town occupation tax, then
the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the license applied for.
      (3)   The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises
wherein the licensee carries on the occupation.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 111.03 PAYMENT OF TAX AND SECURING OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any of the businesses or
occupations upon which this chapter levies an occupation tax without having
paid the town occupation tax levied by this chapter and without having a valid
license from the Town Clerk-Treasurer provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER’S ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall make an annual report as of the close of
business on June 30 each year to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board
showing the number and class of licenses issued and the amount of money
received therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
§ 111.05 RETAIL PACKAGE STORES; LOCATION.
   (A)   No retail package store or any other business licensed by this chapter
shall be located or operated at any place except at locations permitted by the
town’s zoning or planning laws.
   (B)   The location of a retail package store is specifically prohibited
within 300 feet from any church property primarily and regularly used for
worship services and religions activities, or a public school. However, if any
such church or school shall be established within 300 feet of any licensed
retail premises after such premises have been licensed this shall not be a bar
to the renewal of such license so long as it has been in continuous force and
effect. The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property entrance door of the premises of such package store along the
street right-of-way line providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by
pedestrians between such points. A license shall not be issued for a location
on any block where a school or church is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
§ 111.06 SEPARATE PREMISES FOR SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND OTHER GOODS.
   (A)   The premises of a retail package store shall be separated from the
premises on which any other goods, wares or merchandise are sold or services
are rendered, by non-transparent walls which may be broken by a passageway to
which the public is not admitted for the purpose of selling, reselling or
delivering in connection with the sale of the alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   No person shall take any alcoholic beverage through any passageway
described in this section for the purpose of selling or reselling such
beverage, or for the purpose of delivery thereof in connection with a sale of
such beverages.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
§ 111.07 DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is unlawful for any person holding a license for a retail package store
or any employee or agent thereof to keep the premises of the retail package
store open for the purpose of selling, or to sell, any alcoholic beverages at
any hour other than between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Monday
through Saturday; or on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary or
special election; or on New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Juneteenth, the Fourth of
July, Labor Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
(Prior Code, § 3-107) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   Retail package stores may sell alcoholic beverages only in retail containers
in the original package for consumption off the premises. Alcoholic beverages
may be sold only at ordinary room temperatures.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
§ 111.09 PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   (A)   Knowingly to sell, deliver; or furnish alcoholic beverages to any
person under 21 years of age;
   (B)   Who is under the age of 21, to misrepresent his or her age in writing
or by presenting documentation of age for the purpose of inducing any person to
sell him or her alcoholic beverages;
   (C)   To employ any person under the age of 21 years in the selling or
handling of alcoholic beverages;
   (D)   Who is a licensee or an agent or employee thereof to permit any person
under 21 years of age to enter into, remain within or loiter about a licensed
premises;
   (E)   Knowingly to sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic beverages to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally
deficient;
   (F)   To open a retail container or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises or a retail package store; or for any operator of a retail package
store or any person in charge thereof, to permit any person to open a retail
container therein or consume alcoholic beverages therein;
   (G)   To transport in any vehicle upon any street, alley or other public way
within the town any alcoholic beverage except in the original container, which
shall not have been opened and the seal of which shall not have been broken,
and from which the original cap or cork shall not have been removed unless the
opened container be in the trunk or any closed compartment or other container
out of public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the
vehicle;
   (H)   To drink intoxicating liquor in public or to be intoxicated in a
public place; and/or
   (I)   Who is the operator of a café, restaurant, club or any place of
recreation, to permit any person to be drunk or intoxicated in such place of
business.
(Prior Code, § 3-109) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 PACKAGE STORE SIGN.
   No person owning, operating or maintaining a retail alcoholic beverage
package store shall cause or permit it to be designated by more than one sign,
which shall contain only the words “Retail Alcoholic Liquor Store,” or any
combinations of such words or any of them, and which shall contain no letter or
figure more than four inches in height or more than three inches in width and
in which the lines of words, if more than one, shall not be more than one inch
apart.
(Prior Code, § 3-110) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 ADVERTISING.
   No person shall advertise, or cause to be advertised, in any manner, other
than as authorized by this chapter, the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
limits of this town.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)
NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES
§ 111.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. A person who has not yet attained the age at which a person is
permitted to consume nonintoxicating beverages under state law.
   NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES. All beverages containing more than 0.50% alcohol
by volume, and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   RETAIL DEALER. Any person, firm, corporation, association or concessionaire
who sells, distributes or dispenses at retail, any nonintoxicating beverage
within the corporate limits of the town, without regard as to any place where
such beverages may be consumed or used.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
§ 111.26 LICENSE FEE LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied upon each retail dealer in nonintoxicating
beverages for consumption on or off the premises an annual occupation tax of
$20, and an annual license fee of $10 for sale of nonintoxicating beverages
which are in original packages and are not for consumption on the premises.
   (B)   All such municipal license fees taxes shall be paid to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer at the time of issuance of license and in the manner prescribed
herein.
   (C)   (1)   All license fees levied under the provisions of this chapter
shall expire on December 31 of each year. The amount of any license fee levied
shall be computed pro rata from the months remaining in the year ending
December 31.
      (2)   Such fees paid on or before the fifteenth day of any month shall be
on the basis of the first day of the month, and such fees paid after the
fifteenth day of the month shall be on the basis of the first day of the next
succeeding month.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 111.27 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any retail dealer, whether permanent or temporary, to
sell, distribute or dispense any nonintoxicating beverages without having first
received a municipal license as herein required.
(Prior Code, § 3-203) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW; EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No municipal license shall be issued to any retail dealer by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer without a satisfactory showing that the applicant has obtained
all state and county permits required by law and has in all other respects
complied with the state and local alcoholic beverage control requirements.
   (B)   No license shall be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
§ 111.29 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall have power, after public hearing, to revoke
any license granted hereunder for violation of law or ordinance by the license
holder.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
§ 111.30 MINORS NOT TO BE EMPLOYED.
   It is unlawful for any owner, manager or operator of a place where
nonintoxicating beverages are sold for consumption on the premises, except an
eating place where the service of such beverages is incidental to the main
business of serving food, to employ a minor to work in such place.
(Prior Code, § 3-206) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31 INTOXICATED PERSONS; GAMBLING; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of a place where
nonintoxicating beverages are sold for consumption on the premises to sell or
otherwise furnish such beverages to an intoxicated person or to permit an
intoxicated person to remain or loiter therein.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of such a place to
permit therein gambling, betting, operation of a lottery; sale, furnishing or
drinking of intoxicating liquor; disorderly conduct; loud or disturbing
language, noise or music; profane language; or any other violation of the laws
of the state or of the ordinances of the town, or for any person to engage in
any such activity or conduct in such a place.
   (C)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of such a place to
permit therein fighting, boxing, wrestling or other contests of physical
strength; or for any person to fight, box, wrestle or engage in other contests
of physical strength in such a place.
(Prior Code, § 3-207) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 SALE AND PURCHASE TO OR BY MINORS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, offer for sale,
give away, procure for or otherwise dispense to any minor any nonintoxicating
beverage; or for any minor to purchase, receive or procure any nonintoxicating
beverage.
(Prior Code, § 3-208) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 MINORS; POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES OR BEER PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any minor to be in possession of any
nonintoxicating beverages while such person is on any public street, road or
highway, or in any public building or place.
(Prior Code, § 3-209) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It is unlawful for any person, whether a minor or of age, to drink any
nonintoxicating beverage while such person is upon any public street, alley or
other public highway, or in any public building or other public place within
the town. This section shall not prohibit a person who is of age from drinking
such beverage in a place licensed to sell it for consumption on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-210) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 HOURS OF SALE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell nonintoxicating
beverages for consumption on the premises to sell the same between the hours of
2:00 a.m. Saturday and 7:00 a.m. on the following Monday; and on other days of
the week between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 3-211) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
110.01 through
111.11 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
111.25 through
111.35 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be punished
as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-212)
CHAPTER 112: MEDICAL MARIJUANA
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Application
   
112.03   General requirements
   
112.04   Additional requirements
   
112.05   Revocation or suspension of municipally-issued marijuana license;
hearing
   
112.06   Medical marijuana dispensary
   
112.07   Commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facilities
   
112.08   Medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facilities
   
112.09   Fees
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITIES. Any
medical marijuana growing, or processing facility licensed by the state to grow
or process medical marijuana more than 12 plants. GROWING includes the
cultivation, manufacturing, processing, packaging and distribution of marijuana
and marijuana products. PROCESSING includes, but is not limited to, drying,
cleaning, curing, packaging and extraction of active ingredients to create
medical marijuana, medical marijuana products or concentrates.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. Any retail medical marijuana establishment
licensed by the state and the town to sell or dispense medical marijuana or
medical marijuana products.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FOR PERSONAL USE. Any individual licensed by
the state and the town to grow up to 12 plants within a single residence for
personal medical use.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE FACILITY. Any wholesale or
storage establishment licensed by the state and the town that acquires,
possesses, stores, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, sells or
dispenses marijuana or related supplies and educational materials to the holder
of a valid medical marijuana dispensary license.
   (B)   The town hereby adopts all other terms and definitions as established
by state law or Department of Health regulations. In the event of a conflict
between any definitions contained herein, the definition promulgated by the
state or the Department of Health shall prevail.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 112.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All commercial establishments must obtain a business license from the
Town Clerk-Treasurer at the town and complete application and all required
building inspections.
   (B)   To receive a business license, applicants must submit:
      (1)   A description of the type of business and the proposed location;
      (2)   Proof of a medical marijuana commercial license issued by the State
Department of Health;
      (3)   A site plan showing the exterior features of the building,
including the parking lot, landscaping, driveways, sidewalks and accessible
parking spaces;
      (4)   A floor plan and building permits for occupancy change (if
applicable); and
      (5)   Proof of ownership or valid lease agreement for the property.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 112.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicants for any license contained herein shall be required to
possess a valid state issued medical marijuana license prior to making
application for the town license. The license outlined in this chapter will be
subject to property inspection by an authorized Town Inspector prior to
issuance to ensure compliance with all codes of the town. The property
inspection will occur at a time scheduled and approved by both the applicant
and the Town Inspector. The applicant will be required to be present during the
inspection.
   (B)   All structures, equipment and apparatuses shall comply with all
building and fire codes adopted by the state and the town.
   (C)   A medical marijuana business license application shall be filled out
and signed by the property and business owner and submitted to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer prior to scheduling an inspection. A nonrefundable license fee, as
established in this chapter, shall be paid at the time the application is
submitted. The license fee shall be set according to and used to offset
municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described herein
is located to the nearest property line of the building or unit in which the
proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located.
   (E)   All medical marijuana dispensary, commercial medical marijuana growing
and/or processing facilities, and medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage
facility establishments shall be located within an entirely enclosed and secure
structure, as required by the rules and regulations of the Department of
Health, as may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   License holder shall remit all required state and town sales taxes.
   (G)   The town issued license must be conspicuously posted at the place of
business.
   (H)   It is the intent of the town that nothing in this chapter be construed
to:
      (1)   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers the health,
safety or welfare of the citizens of the town, or causes a public nuisance;
      (2)   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      (3)   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 112.04 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The smell of noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
medical marijuana by a person possessing a valid state issued medical marijuana
license shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Smoking and vaping marijuana shall be prohibited on all town property,
including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities.
   (C)   Any person or entity applying for or issued a license by the town
shall comply with all state laws and Department of Health rules and
regulations, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 112.05 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF MUNICIPALLY-ISSUED MARIJUANA LICENSE;
HEARING.
   (A)   The Town Administrator or designee shall revoke or suspend a license
issued under this section on any of the following grounds:
      (1)   The license was procured by fraudulent conduct or false statement
of a material fact or a fact concerning the applicant was not disclosed at the
time of his or her application, and such fact would have constituted just cause
for refusal to issue the license; and
      (2)   Violation of town ordinance, state law or Department of Health
regulations governing medical marijuana.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to suspension or revocation, the permittee shall be given
notice of the proposed action to be taken and shall have an opportunity to be
heard before the Town Administrator.
      (2)   If an employee has been designated by the Town Administrator, such
employee shall make a report to the Town Administrator together with a
recommendation as to whether the license should be suspended or revoked. A
final appeal can be made to the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Revocation of the state issued license shall result in immediate
revocation of the town issued license.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 112.06 MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY.
   Medical marijuana dispensaries are hereby allowed within the municipal
boundaries of the town upon compliance with §
112.02, issuance of a retail medical marijuana dispensary business license and
the following additional provisions.
   (A)   Medical marijuana dispensary business license shall not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet of
any public or private school.
   (B)   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises.
   (C)   The retail establishment must maintain a valid sales tax permit issued
by the state. No on premises use of marijuana or its derivatives shall be
allowed. Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail medical marijuana business license.
   (D)   (1)   There shall be a business license fee and an annual renewal fee
as set forth in §
112.09. The annual business license will expire on June 30 and shall be renewed
prior to July 1 each year.
      (2)   Failure to renew will result in a penalty fee of 50% of the annual
fee and shall require re-inspection as required by this code.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 7-12-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITIES.
   Commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facilities are hereby
allowed within the municipal boundaries of the town upon compliance with §
112.02, issuance of a commercial medical marijuana growing and/or facility
license and the following additional provisions.
   (A)   The facility shall be secure with limited access.
   (B)   The establishment must maintain a valid sales tax permit issued by the
state.
   (C)   The facility must be constructed in such a manner that the growing of
the medical marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public from the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with all building and fire codes adopted by the
state and the town.
   (E)   The growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create
humidity, mold or other related problems.
   (F)   Growing medical marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   (G)   There shall be a business license fee and an annual renewal fee as set
forth in §
112.09. The annual business license will expire on June 30th and shall be
renewed prior to July 1 each year. Failure to renew will result in a penalty of
50% of the annual fee and shall require re-inspection as required by this code.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 112.08 MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facilities are hereby allowed
within the municipal boundaries of the town, upon compliance with §
112.02, issuance of a medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facility
license and the following additional requirements.
   (A)   The facility shall be secure with limited access.
   (B)   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises.
   (C)   The retail establishment must maintain a valid sales tax permit issued
by the state.
   (D)   There shall be a business license fee and an annual renewal fee as set
forth in §
112.09. The annual business license will expire on June 30 and shall be renewed
prior to July 1 each year. Failure to renew will result in a penalty fee of 50%
of the annual fee.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 112.09 FEES.
 
Application fee                                     $100
Commercial growery and/or processing facility       $1,300
Medical marijuana dispensary                        $1,300
Medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facility $1,300
 
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to license revocation or suspension, a violation of any of the
provisions contained in this chapter shall also be deemed an offense and
punishable as provided in this code.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 7-12-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS, HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Attempts to commit an offense
   
130.02   Aiding in an offense
   
130.03   Adoption of State Penal Code
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense but
fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetuation thereof, is guilty of
an offense and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 10-101)
§ 130.02 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 10-102)
§ 130.03 ADOPTION OF STATE PENAL CODE.
   The misdemeanor provisions of the State Penal Code (21 O.S.), and all
amendments thereto, are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference,
and are enforceable by the town within the town limits as fully as if set out
at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-103)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this title is punishable by fine or
imprisonment as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Petit larceny prohibited
   
131.02   Receiving stolen property
   
131.03   Injuring automobiles and other vehicles
   
131.04   Destroying or injuring buildings and other property
   
131.05   Placing signs on property of another
   
131.06   Throwing or shooting at persons or property
   
131.07   Tampering with or damaging public utilities
   
131.08   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
131.09   Illegal entrance
   
131.10   Throwing advertising on street prohibited
   
131.11   Throwing injurious substances
   
131.12   Injury to plants and trees
   
131.13   Public streets and trees
   
131.14   Trespass prohibited
   
131.15   Parking on property of another
   
131.16   Interference with fire hydrants
§ 131.01 PETIT LARCENY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, PETIT LARCENY is the taking of
personal property of value not exceeding $50 accomplished by fraud or stealth
and with intent to deprive another thereof, but it does not include the taking
of such property from the person of another.
   (B)   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits larceny shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-201) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to buy, receive in any manner, upon any consideration,
any personal properly of any value whatsoever that has been stolen, embezzled,
obtained by false pretenses or robbery, knowing or having reasonable cause to
believe the same to have been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or
robbery, or to conceal, withhold or aid in concealing or withholding such
property from the owner.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who, without making reasonable inquiry, buys,
receives, conceals, withholds or aids in concealing or withholding any property
which has been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or robbery, or
otherwise feloniously obtained, under such circumstances as should cause such
person to make reasonable inquiry to ascertain that the person from whom such
property was bought or received had the legal right to sell or deliver it,
shall be presumed to have bought or received such property knowing it to have
been stolen or wrongfully obtained.
      (2)   This presumption may, however, be rebutted by proof.
(Prior Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.03 INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest,
enter, occupy, loiter in or injure any automobile or other vehicle belonging to
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-203) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04 DESTROYING OR INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear or molest
any structure; building, outbuilding, fence or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use.
(Prior Code, § 10-204) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.05 PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-205) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.06 THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he or she is
likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle; structure,
electric light or other property of another (whether public or private), except
in case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of
property.
(Prior Code, § 10-206) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.07 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly or
privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him or her to consume or use
the gas, water or electricity without it passing through the meter or any other
way so as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person to
damage, molest, tamper with or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or other
part of any public utility, including any telegraph or telephone system.
(Prior Code, § 10-207) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.08 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the town without a license or authority from the owner thereof or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley or avenue of the town, any hut, shanty, hovel or other
structure without authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-208) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.09 ILLEGAL ENTRANCE.
   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into
an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure
is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or any
notice or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. It is
unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another after having been
given notice, written or verbal to leave by the owner or person in charge.
(Prior Code, § 10-209) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.10 THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   If is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
area, any handbill, circular or other advertising matter.
(Prior Code, § 10-210) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.11 THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   If is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw
upon the person or properly of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive
or other irritating or harmful substance; or human or animal waste or urine,
with intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal.
(Prior Code, § 10-211) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.12 INJURY TO PLANTS AND TREES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully and without authority cut,
pull, pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the town, or willfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or willfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or ground.
   (B)   Any person violating this section, upon conviction, shall be deemed
guilty of on offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-212) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.13 PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the town;
      (2)   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph or electric, wire or any
wire to any live tree;
      (3)   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under the
supervision or control of the town;
      (4)   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the town; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
      (5)   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the town inspector so to do.
   (B)   Any such digging, removing or driveway connection shall be done under
the supervision of the Street Superintendent or Town Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 10-213) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.14 TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property which is dedicated to public use and over which
the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof exercises
control.
      TRESPASS. Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. TRESPASS
shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in
lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or
the agent or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of the
premises. TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer. The
provisions of this definition shall not apply to persons, including employees,
whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in
lawful possession of such premises nor shall the provisions of this definition
apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon such premises.
TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of returning to private property
before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next business
day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this
definition.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private property.
(Prior Code, § 10-214) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.15 PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by
authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-215) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.16 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person except one duly authorized by the town
utility personnel or a member of the Fire Department to open, turn on or off,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with, any fire
hydrant or stop cock belonging to the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant
by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other thing, or in any
other manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 10-216) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
Section
   
132.01   Disturbing the peace
   
132.02   Insulting signs, literature or language
   
132.03   Literature or language ridiculing religion
   
132.04   Fireworks regulated
   
132.05   Storing of keeping explosives
   
132.06   Carrying weapons; exceptions
   
132.07   Reckless conduct
   
132.08   Discharging firearms; exceptions
   
132.09   Loud noise or music prohibited; amplified sound
§ 132.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, DISTURBING THE PEACE is the doing of
any of the following in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the
peace of another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or
not at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Holding an unlawful assembly of two or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (7)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by
rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or
in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (8)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (9)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      (10)   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
(Prior Code, § 10-301) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, film or corporation within the town to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common acceptance
is insulting, profane or abusive to the citizens of the town, and which is
calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully use, utter, publish,
circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive or insulting language or
literature where:
      (1)   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      (2)   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 10-302) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.03 LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE RIDICULING RELIGION.
   It is unlawful for any person to utter, publish, distribute or circulate any
literature or language within the corporate limits of the town that casts
profane ridicule on any deity, or any religion, which in its common acceptance
is calculated or where the natural consequence is to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 10-303) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.04 FIREWORKS REGULATED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, FIREWORKS shall have the meaning
prescribed by state law (68 O.S. § 1622).
   (B)   The purchase, sale, offering for sale, giving away, use, discharge,
shooting, setting of, exploding, detonating or possession of fireworks within
the corporate limits of the town is hereby prohibited except as provided
herein.
      (1)   The retail sale of Class C fireworks shall be permitted in those
areas of the town immediately adjacent to the right-of-way of State Highway 66.
For the purpose of this division (B)(1), IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT TO shall be
construed to mean not more than 100 feet from the right-of-way.
      (2)   The sale of fireworks shall be made from a free-standing structure
which in all cases shall be located no less than 100 feet from any structure
owned by a third party. The structure shall be a rigid structure, the sale of
fireworks from tents or nonrigid structures being expressly forbidden.
      (3)   A salesclerk must be on duty to serve the consumer at the time of
purchase. All fireworks offered for retail sale must be protected from direct
contact and handling by the public at all times. Entry within those structures
aforementioned shall be forbidden to the public.
      (4)   Such sales shall not be made before June 15 or after July 6 of each
year. Hours of permitted sale shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. each day
during which sales are permitted, except that sales shall be permitted from 8:
00 a.m. on July 4, continuously until 2:00 a.m. on July 5.
      (5)   The retail license holder, as set out below, shall be at least 18
years of age.
      (6)   Any such person operating a retail location where fireworks are
sold as permitted herein shall be required to purchase a retail fireworks
license. The license shall be available upon application to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, beginning June 5 through July 6 of each year. The license shall
expire at 12:00 a.m. on July 6 of each year. The license fee shall be $100 and
shall be purchased from the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Upon application for the
license, applicant shall provide the Town Clerk-Treasurer with the location of
the retail outlet, proof of age of applicant, evidence of all licenses required
under state law and an affidavit signed by the applicant stating that he or she
has read this section, will comply with same, will comply with all applicable
state and federal laws and regulations pertaining to the sale of fireworks and
will comply with such regulations as the town shall reasonably require for the
protection and benefit of the general public.
      (7)   Failure to comply with the foregoing provisions or violation
thereof shall constitute a criminal offense against the town and is punishable
as provided by ordinance. Each separate day the provisions are violated shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-304) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.05 STORING OF KEEPING EXPLOSIVES.
   It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the town any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder or any other highly explosive material or
substance of any kind without having first complied with the laws of the state
for the purpose of selling, storing or keeping such items.
(Prior Code, § 10-305) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.06 CARRYING WEAPONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his or her
person any pistol, revolver, dagger, Bowie knife, dirk knife, switch-blade
knife, spring-type knife, metal knuckle or any other dangerous or deadly weapon
or instrument except when doing so in line of duty or as may be permitted by
law.
(Prior Code, § 10-306) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.07 RECKLESS CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in
his or her possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, longbow, compound or
crossbow, such actions consisting of creating a situation of unreasonable risk
and probability of death or great bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a
conscious disregard for the safety of another person.
(Prior Code, § 10-307) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.08 DISCHARGING FIREARMS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall discharge any species of firearm, in the town except when
doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of
another person or of property or when otherwise authorized by law or ordinance.
It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-308) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.09 LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC PROHIBITED; AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part
of the town by operating, having operated or permitting to be operated, any
contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor vehicle or any other device,
with or without a loud speaker; in such a manner as to emit loud music, noise
or words. However, this section shall not prohibit religious bodies from
playing chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music.
(Prior Code, § 10-309) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS, HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Public intoxication and drinking prohibited
   
133.02   Possession; transportation of intoxicating and nonintoxicating
beverages
   
133.03   Intoxicating liquors
   
133.04   Marijuana prohibited
   
133.05   Prostitution
   
133.06   Disorderly house
   
133.07   Nudity; improper dress; indecent exposure
   
133.08   Obscenity regulations
   
133.09   Vagrancy
   
133.10   Curfew for children
   
133.11   Sleeping in public
   
133.12   Begging prohibited
   
133.13   Gambling prohibited; being in gambling place
   
133.14   Harmful deception
   
133.15   False or bogus checks
   
133.16   Swindling unlawful
   
133.17   Prevention of youth access to tobacco
   
133.18   Assault and battery prohibited
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any
street, alley or other public place in the town in a state of intoxication.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating or non-
intoxicating liquor or beverage, as defined by 37A O.S. § 1-103, upon or in any
street, alley or other public place within the town.
      (3)   It is unlawful to use, sell or furnish to another any illegal drug
or narcotic in any place in the town except as legally prescribed by a
physician.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, STATE OF INTOXICATION means the
influence of any intoxicating, nonintoxicating or of any narcotic or drug, to
such extent as to physical or mental power, or in which a person is under
spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, deprive the person of his or her full
danger to himself, herself or others.
(Prior Code, § 10-401) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 POSSESSION; TRANSPORTATION OF INTOXICATING AND NONINTOXICATING
BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to be in
possession of any intoxicating or nonintoxicating alcoholic beverage while such
person is upon any public street, road or highway or in any public place within
the town limits.
   (B)   If is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age of
21 years to permit such person to be in possession of an intoxicating alcoholic
beverage.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating beverage except in the original container which shall not have
been opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed
unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment. The rear
trunk or compartment shall include the spare tire compartment in a station
wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the
driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, INTOXICATING BEVERAGE and
NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGE shall be as defined in §
111.01.
(Prior Code, § 10-402) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 INTOXICATING LIQUORS.
   It is unlawful:
   (A)   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind
except as permitted by law;
   (B)   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating liquor or beverage except as permitted by law, or to transport
or in any manner convey from place to place in the town any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating liquor or beverage except as permitted by law;
   (C)   To loiter in a place where intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor is
sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
   (D)   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place where
intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor is sold, bartered, given away or
otherwise furnished in violation of law.
(Prior Code, § 10-403) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 MARIJUANA PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to:
      (1)   Manufacture, grow, harvest, cultivate, propagate, plant, compound,
convert, produce, process, test, pack, repack, store, distribute, dispense or
possess with intent to manufacture, distribute or dispense marijuana;
      (2)   Use, have, inject, ingest, inhale, otherwise introduce into the
human body or possess marijuana;
      (3)   Use or possess drug paraphernalia or to deliver, possess or
manufacture any such paraphernalia singly or in conjunction with any other
person; or
      (4)   Appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place in the town while under the influence of a controlled
dangerous substance or marijuana.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. As defined in 63 O.S. § 2-101, including the factors
to determine in 63 O.S. § 2-101.
      MARIJUANA. As defined in 63 O.S. § 2-101.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any marijuana lawfully obtained or
authorized by valid prescription order from a licensed physician while acting
in the course of his or her professional practice.
(Prior Code, § 10-404) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be a prostitute;
      (2)   Solicit, entice or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      (3)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      (4)   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      (5)   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution; or
      (6)   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of
prostitution in the limits of town.      
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION. The granting of the right of use or
the leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice
of prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
      SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES. The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 10-405) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DISORDERLY HOUSE. Any structure or vehicle by which the peace, comfort,
health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the people
therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
         (a)   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
         (b)   The violation of any of the ordinances of this town or statutes
of this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages, including beer containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
         (c)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state
statute or town ordinance, including, but not limited to, soliciting for
purposes of prostitution; or
         (d)   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
(Prior Code, § 10-406)
   (B)   Maintaining or leasing a disorderly house.
      (1)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
      (2)   No owner, lessee, lessor or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sub-lease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and, knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle is so occupied as
a disorderly house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
(Prior Code, § 10-407)
   (C)   Residents and visitors to disorderly house. No person shall knowingly
reside in, enter into or remain in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for
violation of this section, the town shall have the burden to prove such
knowledge by direct evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This
section shall not apply to physicians or officers in the discharge of their
professional or official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-408)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Appear in any public place in the town in a state of nudity;
   (B)   Appear in any public place in the town in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
   (C)   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code, § 10-409) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 OBSCENITY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
      DISSEMINATE. To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
      KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
      MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written
material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure or any recording, transcription or
mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area
with less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male
genitals in a discernible turgid state.
      OBSCENE. That to the average person applying contemporary community
standards:
         (a)   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest, shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct nudity or
excretion;
         (b)   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by 21 O.S.; and
         (c)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
      PERFORMANCE. Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other
exhibition performed before an audience.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
      PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
      SERVICE TO PATRONS. The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages, including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiting and entertaining.
(Prior Code, § 10-410)
   (B)   Prohibited obscene conduct.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material;
         (b)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
         (c)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; and
         (d)   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to
public view:
            1.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region;
            2.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
            3.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof; or
            4.   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
      (2)   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of
any motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a
separate offense. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a
projectionist, assistant projectionist, usher or cashier; provided, that such
person has no financial interest in the motion picture theater and so long as
that person is not acting as director or manager of the theater.
(Prior Code, § 10-411)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 VAGRANCY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the town.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, VAGRANT means any person who loiters
or remains in or wanders about, a public or private place for any of the
following purposes:
      (1)   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      (2)   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      (3)   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
      (4)   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
      (5)   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      (6)   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms; provided, that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
      (7)   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
(Prior Code, § 10-412) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.10 CURFEW FOR CHILDREN.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 21 years who is in loco parentis to
a minor.
      GUARDIAN. Any person or other than a parent who has legal guardianship of
a minor.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
café, theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also
include the front or immediate area of the above.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any minor to remain, wander, stroll or play in any
public place on foot or to cruise about without a set destination in any
vehicle in, about or upon any public place in the town between the hours of 12:
00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. Monday through Friday and between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 5:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday unless:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
      (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed or permitted by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor; or
      (3)   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or having
charge of any public place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors
between the hours of curfew designated in division (B) above.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
person having custody or control of any minor to suffer or permit or by
inefficient control to allow such person to be on any public place within the
town between the hours of curfew designated in division (B) above. The
provisions of this section do not apply if:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor;
      (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed by his or her parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
having the care and custody of the minor; or
      (3)   The parent guardian or other adult person herein has made a missing
person notification to the Town Police Department.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees may permit by resolution or motion procedures
for advance notice or registration with the town of special events or functions
sponsored by churches, schools, clubs or other organizations which require
minors to be out at a later time. The Board of Trustees may also prescribe the
procedures for taking into custody minors found in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-413) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.11 SLEEPING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m., to sleep on any street, in any other public place or on any property
of another without the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in
charge of such place.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to loiter on or about the premises of any
public or private school or other public building, or in or about a depot of a
public carrier.
(Prior Code, § 10-414) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.12 BEGGING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need.
(Prior Code, § 10-415) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.13 GAMBLING PROHIBITED; BEING IN GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   Gambling prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
         (a)   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on
or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
         (b)   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
         (c)   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
         (d)   To knowingly permit his, her or its premises, houses, lot or
other property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful
in this section.
      (2)   It is unlawful and an offense against the town for any person to
ploy any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein
the element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks
or any other representatives of value.
(Prior Code, § 10-416)
   (B)   Being about a place where gambling is going on. It is unlawful for any
person to be about in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are
gambling, whether by playing games, operating a slot machine or other device,
or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 10-417)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.14 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 10-418) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.15 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to
obtain or attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money,
property or valuable thing of the value of $50 or less by means of any false or
bogus check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument or
spurious coin.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK shall include
checks or orders given for money or property which are not honored on account
of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer
thereof. The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order,
payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of
intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with,
such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the
drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or
order shall be presented for payment within 180 days after same is delivered
and accepted.
(Prior Code, § 10-419) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.16 SWINDLING UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or persons or
businesses under false pretenses, deception, cheating or by any other
fraudulent act.
(Prior Code, § 10-420) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.17 PREVENTION OF YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the Prevention of Youth Access
to Tobacco Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-421)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust
or association, however formed.
      PROOF OF AGE. A driver license, license for identification only or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as 18
years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
      SAMPLE. A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost
for the purpose of promoting the product.
      SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a
public place.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption.
(Prior Code, § 10-422)
   (C)   Furnishing of tobacco products to minors prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to sell or furnish in any manner any
tobacco product to another person who is under 18 years of age, or to purchase
in any manner a tobacco product on behalf of any such person. It shall not be
unlawful for an employee under 18 years of age to handle tobacco products when
required in the performance of the employee’s duties.
      (2)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products
shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient if an
ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective
purchaser may be under 18 years of age. If an individual engaged in the sale or
distribution of tobacco products has demanded proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient who is not under 18 years of age, the failure to
subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section.
      (3)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and reasonably relied
upon proof of age, shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
division (C).
      (4)   If the sale is made by an employee of the owner of a store at which
tobacco products are sold at retail, the employee shall be guilty of the
violation and shall be subject to the fine. If the sale is made by an employee
who has previously been twice found to be in violation of this section, the
owner of the store, if the owner knew of the employee’s previous violations,
shall also be found to be in violation and shall be subject to an identical
fine.
(Prior Code, § 10-423)
   (D)   Tobacco purchase by person under 18 years of age prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person who is under 18 years of age to
purchase, receive or have in his or her possession a tobacco product, or to
present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false or
fraudulent for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product.
      (2)   It shall not be unlawful for an employee under 18 years of age to
handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the employee’s
duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-424)
   (E)   Tobacco samples restricted.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute tobacco product
samples to any person under 18 years of age.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) above, no person shall distribute
tobacco product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk or park that is
within 300 feet of any playground, school or other facility when the facility
is being used primarily by persons under 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 10-425)
   (F)   Cigarettes sold in original, sealed package. It is unlawful for any
person to sell cigarettes except in the original, sealed package in which they
were placed by the manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 10-426)
   (G)   Violations of ordinance reported to ABLE Commission. Any conviction
for a violation of a local ordinance authorized by the Prevention of Youth
Access to Tobacco Act, being 63 O.S. §§ 1 et seq., and any compliance checks by
a municipality pursuant to division (E) above, shall be reported in writing to
the ABLE Commission within 30 days of such conviction or compliance check. Such
reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-427)
   (H)   Persons under 18 years enlisted to assist in enforcement. Persons
under 18 years of age may be enlisted by the municipality to assist in
enforcement; provided, that such persons may be used to test compliance only if
written parental consent has been provided. Municipalities which have enacted
municipal ordinances in accordance with the Prevention of Youth Access to
Tobacco Act may conduct, pursuant to rules of the ABLE Commission, compliance
checks without prior notification to the ABLE Commission and shall be exempt
from the written notice requirement in this division (H). This division (H)
shall not apply to the use of persons under 18 years of age to test compliance
if the compliance test is being conducted by or on behalf of a retailer of
cigarettes, as defined in 68 O.S. § 301, at any location the retailer of
cigarettes is authorized to sell cigarettes. Any other use of persons under 18
years of age to test compliance shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 10-428)
   (I)   Furnish information requested. The Town Police Department shall
furnish information requested by the ABLE Commission in the form, manner and
time as may be determined by the ABLE Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-429)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.18 ASSAULT AND BATTERY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any intentional, willful or unlawful attempt or offer with force
or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any intentional, willful or unlawful use of force or violence
upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with another
without consent.
   (B)   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the town. Any person committing an assault or an assault
and battery within the jurisdiction of the town, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99.
   (B)   When a person violates any part of §
133.17, the municipal court may impose a fine of not more than $100 for the
first offense; and not more than $200 for the second offense within a one-year
period following the first offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-430)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
134.01   Resisting an officer
   
134.02   Refusing or failing to assist an officer
   
134.03   Assault or battery upon police or other law officer
   
134.04   Rescuing prisoners
   
134.05   Escape of prisoners
   
134.06   Impersonating an officer or employee
   
134.07   False alarms
   
134.08   False representation to an officer
   
134.09   Removal of barricades
   
134.10   Resisting public officials
   
134.11   Failure to appear
§ 134.01 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or in any way interfere
with the Police Chief or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his or her official
duties within the limits of the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an
arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or
in front of an approaching officer.
   (C)   Resisting an officer is the intentional opposition or resistance to,
or obstruction of, an individual acting in his or her official capacity, and
authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve
any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to
know that the person arresting, seizing property or serving process is acting
in his or her official capacity.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the words OBSTRUCTION OF shall, in
addition to their common meaning, include:
      (1)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him or her and after notice is given that he or she is under
arrest;
      (2)   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he or she is under arrest; or
      (3)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his or her name and make his
or her identity known to the arresting officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-601) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   (A)   An officer of the town making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the town or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon a person or persons
to assist him or her in making such arrest, executing such process or
suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
    (B)   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the town to refuse or fail to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-602) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-603) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.04 RESCUING PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty,
rescue or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners, from any
officer or employee of the town having legal custody of the same or from the
town jail or other place of confinement by the town, or to assist such prisoner
in any manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after
conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement.
(Prior Code, § 10-604) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.05 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   If is unlawful for any person confined in the town jail or other place of
confinement by the town, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the town in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody.
(Prior Code, § 10-605) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.06 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   If is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of the
town, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers
of an officer or employee of the town without being duly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-606) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.07 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the Fire
Department or Police Department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run.
(Prior Code, § 10-607) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.08 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the town government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-608) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.09 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(Prior Code, § 10-609) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.10 RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge or any other officer or employee of the town in
the discharge of his or her official duties;
   (B)   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
   (C)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or
indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-610) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.11 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   Whoever, having been admitted bailing or released on recognizance,
bond or undertaking for appearance before the municipal judge of the town,
incurs a forfeiture of the bail or violates such undertaking or recognizance
and willfully fails to appear in municipal court at the time and date
specified, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be
punished in accordance with §
130.99. Nothing in this section shall be construed to interfere with or prevent
the exercise by the municipal court of its power to punish for contempt.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person who has been
cited or summoned to the municipal court of the town to fail to appear on his
or her appointed court date unless prior arrangements have been made through
the Town Attorney or the municipal court clerk.
      (2)   The penalty for failing to appear shall be in addition to the
penalty for the violation for which a person was originally cited or summoned
and shall be assessed by the municipal judge in an amount up to the maximum
fine permissible under state law in a municipal court.
(Prior Code, § 10-611) (Ord. 2023-002, passed 2-14-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   OIL AND GAS DRILLING
      
154.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
      
155.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
      
156.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.001   Building code adopted
   
150.002   Additions and changes to building code
   
150.003   Building Official
   
150.004   Fire limits defined
   
150.005   Building permit required; fee
   
150.006   Conditions for building permits, subdivisions; floodplain
requirements
   
150.007   Number of dwellings per lot, restrictions
Plumbing Code
   
150.020   Adoption of plumbing code
   
150.021   Additions, insertions and changes to plumbing code
   
150.022   Plumbers; registration, permits and fees
   
150.023   Plumbing; permits and inspections
   
150.024   Plumbing inspector; office created; duties
Electrical Code
   
150.035   “Electrical equipment” defined
   
150.036   National Electrical Code
   
150.037   Conformity with Underwritten Laboratories, Inc. standards
   
150.038   Town Board of Trustees may make special rulings
   
150.039   Pilot light required for iron in mercantile occupancies
   
150.040   Branch circuits
   
150.041   Basement installations
   
150.042   Permit required for electrical installations; issuance
   
150.043   Inspection fee
   
150.044   Electricians registration required, bond
Gas Piping Code
   
150.055   Pamphlet adopted
Other Building Regulations
   
150.070   Liquefied petroleum gas
   
150.071   Building numbering
   
150.072   Signs
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The International Building Code, the latest edition thereof, as published by
the International Code Council (ICC), is hereby adopted as the building code of
the town for the control of buildings and structures as therein provided. Each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the
International Building Code are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated and
made a part hereof as if fully set out in this code with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)
§ 150.002 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO BUILDING CODE.
   The following sections of the International Building Code are hereby
revised:
   (A)   Section 100.1, insert: Town of Kellyville;
   (B)   Section 114.3.1, insert: The fee schedule shall be in accordance with
§
150.005 of the town’s code of ordinances or as may be set or amended by
ordinance or resolution;
   (C)   Section 117.4, insert: offense, punishable by fine and imprisonment as
provided in §
10.99 of the town’s code of ordinances;
   (D)   Section 118.2, insert: fine as provided in §
10.99 of the town’s code of ordinances;
   (E)   Section 123.3, insert: as set by the Town Board of Trustees;
   (F)   Section 501.2, insert: the boundaries of the fire limits as provided
in the town code of ordinances;
   (G)   Section 1807.21 and 1807.22, insert: a number of feet to be determined
by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution; and
   (H)   Section 1906.l, insert: amounts as set by the Town Board of Trustees
by motion or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5-102)
§ 150.003 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Building Official of this town shall be appointed by the Town
Board of Trustees and shall have the powers and duties prescribed for the
Building Official by the town’s building code; provided, that his or her powers
and duties may be exercised by his or her authorized representatives under his
or her supervision and control.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Official.
      ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR, PLUMBING INSPECTOR and GAS INSPECTOR. Refers to and
means the Building Official, unless a separate electrical inspector, plumbing
inspector or gas inspector is appointed by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)
§ 150.004 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The fire limits are the part of the town bounded as provided by the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-105)
§ 150.005 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall be built, enlarged, altered or
moved without a building permit issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer as follows:
      (1)   Whenever changes to a building or other structure alter the outside
appearance;
      (2)   Whenever changes will amount to more than $1,000 in cost; or
      (3)   Whenever a building or structure is to be moved from without the
town to a location within the town or from one location in the town to another
location within the town.
   (B)   A person desiring a building permit shall submit an application
therefor to the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The applicant shall submit with the
application such reasonable information as the Clerk-Treasurer may require to
enable him or her to determine whether granting the permit would be in
accordance with the requirements of the ordinances of the town.
   (C)   If the application is in accordance with the requirements of this
section and state and local laws, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the permit
upon the payment by the applicant of a building permit fee which may be set by
motion or resolution of the Town Board of Trustees. A current copy of the fee
schedule shall be kept in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   A building permit covers the initial plumbing and electrical
installations to be made in connection with the building.
(Prior Code, § 5-106)
§ 150.006 CONDITIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS, SUBDIVISIONS; FLOODPLAIN
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A building permit shall be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer only
after the Building Official has determined that the proposed building site is
reasonably safe from flooding; or if a flood hazard exists, any proposed new
construction or substantial improvement, including prefabricated, and mobile
homes must:
      (1)   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage; and
      (3)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or any other
legal entity shall construct or cause to be constructed any structure or
substantial improvement to any structure, residential, industrial, commercial
or otherwise, without first obtaining a permit to construct same from the town.
   (C)   Proposed subdivisions and land use areas shall be reviewed to assure
that:
      (1)   All proposals for construction provide for methods to minimize
flood damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewerage, gas,
electrical service and water systems, are located and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided for, so as to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   (D)   All new or replacement water supply systems or sanitary sewerage
systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into the floodwater.
(Prior Code, § 5-107)
§ 150.007 NUMBER OF DWELLINGS PER LOT, RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person or other entity may establish more than one single dwelling
per one platted lot within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   A temporary exception to this section may be requested of the Town
Board of Trustees by petitioning the Board of Trustees requesting that another
dwelling be placed on the platted lot.
   (C)   Such temporary exception to this section may be granted if sufficient
proof of need be furnished to the Board of Trustees. A signed affidavit is
required, stating the need for this second dwelling and that no fee including
any fee for rent, lease or similar charge, be imposed for the use of the second
dwelling.
   (D)   Any person or entity who violates the provisions of this section shall
be notified to abate such violation within ten days. Failure to abate shall
constitute a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is punishable as provided in §
10.99 per each day such violation continues.
   (E)   In addition to proceeding under authority of division (D) above, the
town in entitled to pursue all other civil remedies to which it is entitled in
order to enjoin a violation hereof against a person or entity so violating
same.
(Prior Code, § 5-108) Penalty, see §
150.999
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.020 ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE.
   A certain document, at least three copies of which are on file in the office
of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, being marked and designated as the International
Plumbing Code, the latest edition thereof, and any revisions or amendments
thereto, as published by the International Code Council (ICC), is hereby
adopted as the plumbing code of the town for the control of buildings and
structures as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of the International Plumbing Code are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this code,
with additions, insertions and changes, if any, prescribed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)
§ 150.021 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO PLUMBING CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section P-100.l (page 5, second line), insert: the Town of Kellyville;
   (B)   Section P-104.1 (page 6, second line), insert: effective date of the
town’s code of ordinances;
   (C)   Section P-114.2 (page 12, third line), insert: as provided in §
150.023 of the town’s code of ordinances;
   (D)   Section P-117.4 (page 13, fifth, sixth and seventh lines), insert:
offense and punished as provided in §
10.99 of the town’s code of ordinances;
   (E)   Section P-118.2 (page 14, fifth line), insert: fine as provided in §
10.99 of the town’s code of ordinances;
   (F)   Section P-303.2 (page 32, third line), insert: a distance in feet as
determined by the Town Board of Trustees; and
   (G)   Section P-308.3 (page 33, second and third lines), insert: a depth in
feet as determined by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
§ 150.022 PLUMBERS; REGISTRATION, PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following terms and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively prescribed for them by 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et
seq. (the State Plumbing License Law) unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning: JOURNEYMAN PLUMBER, PLUMBER’S APPRENTICE, PLUMBING and
PLUMBING CONTRACTOR.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
occupation of a plumbing contractor (otherwise known as a master plumber), or
of a journeyman plumber, or of a plumber’s apprentice, in this town unless he
or she is registered with the plumbing inspector and has a current and valid
certificate of registration issued by the plumbing inspector.
   (C)   Only persons who have current and valid licenses as plumbing
contractors or as journeyman plumbers issued by the State Commissioner of
Health as provided by the State Plumbing License Law may register as such with
the plumbing inspector; and only persons who have current and valid
certificates of registration as plumber’s apprentices issued by the State
Commissioner of Health as provided by law, may register as such with the
plumbing inspector.
   (D)   Upon application to the plumbing inspector, the plumbing inspector
shall register such applicants and issue to them certificates of registration;
provided, that an applicant for registration as a plumbing contractor shall
also furnish a bond as prescribed below. Such town certificates shall not be
valid after the termination or expiration of the state licenses or
certificates. Registration certificates of plumbing contractors and journeyman
plumbers issued as provided herein shall expire on June 30 each year. The town
certificates of plumbers’ apprentices shall expire when their state
certificates expire which is five years after date of issue.
   (E)   An applicant for a plumbing contractor’s certificate of registration,
after complying with the laws of the state and with the established town code,
and after payment of the fee hereinafter specified, shall be registered by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. The registration shall expire at the end of the fiscal
year; and the annual renewal fee but may be renewed from year to year. The
initial registration fee shall be as set by the Town Board. Plumbing
contractors desiring to renew their registration shall furnish the same
evidence of compliance with state licensing laws, and the same bond is required
as set forth by this code.
   (F)   A qualified person may register as a plumbing contractor, a journeyman
plumber or a plumber’s apprentice, in the same manner as in the original
instance and upon the same conditions.
   (G)   All plumbing contractors’ registrations not renewed within 90 days
after the date of expiration thereof shall be cancelled, and a new application
for registration must be made and the fee for a new registration paid.
   (H)   The fee for registration shall be as set by the Town Board by motion
or resolution.
   (I)   The Town Board, upon at least ten days’ notice and adequate
opportunity for a public hearing, may revoke the town registration of any
plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber for violating any provisions of the
ordinances or regulations of the town relating to the installation of plumbing
or for any other cause specified in the State Plumbing License Law.
(Prior Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.023 PLUMBING; PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   No plumbing work shall be undertaken without a permit from the
plumbing inspector.
   (B)   The application for such work must follow the adopted town code.
   (C)   The schedule of permit fees may be set forth by resolution or motion
of the Town Board. Such payment will be made upon application.
   (D)   Inspection of such work must conform to the guidelines set forth in
the town code.
(Prior Code, § 5-204) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.024 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; OFFICE CREATED; DUTIES.
   (A)   The office of inspector of plumbing is hereby created and shall be
filled and the duties of the office performed by some person appointed by the
Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Such inspector shall make inspection and testing of all plumbing and
sewer connections done within the town and shall have the right to deputize any
person equally qualified to make the actual inspections and report. He or she
may and shall carry out the performance of this chapter.
   (C)   The testing of plumbing shall be done by filling all drains with water
to the roof, and such other tests as the inspector shall deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.035 “ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. Refers to electrical conductors, metallic raceways,
fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances, apparatus and any electrical material
of any nature, kind or description, to be installed within or on any building
or structure.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)
§ 150.036 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   All installations of electrical equipment shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, with the statutes of the state and any orders,
roles and regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons and property.
   (B)   Where no specific standards are prescribed by this chapter or by the
statutes of the state or by any orders, rules or regulations issued by
authority thereof, conformity with the regulations set forth in the current
issue of the National Electrical Code, as approved by the American Insurance
Association, shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved
standards for safety to persons or to property.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)
§ 150.037 CONFORMITY WITH UNDERWRITTEN LABORATORIES, INC. STANDARDS.
   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter, the statutes of the state and the provisions of
this chapter, the statutes of the state and any orders, rules and regulations
issued by the authority thereof, and with approved electrical standards for
safety to persons or to property. Unless by this chapter, by a statute of the
state or any orders, rules or regulations issued by authority thereof, a
specific type or class of electrical equipment is disapproved for installation
and use, conformity with the standards of Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc.,
shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety
to persons or to property.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)
§ 150.038 TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES MAY MAKE SPECIAL RULINGS.
   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, shall have the
authority to make special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the
safeguarding of life and property and the improvement of electrical
installations. In all cases, persons engaged in the installing of electrical
equipment and holding an electrical license must be notified by letter of these
decisions.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)
§ 150.039 PILOT LIGHT REQUIRED FOR IRON IN MERCANTILE OCCUPANCIES.
   In all mercantile occupancies where electric irons are used, they must be
installed with approved pilot light. If the pilot light is in an enclosure such
as an alteration room, an additional light must be installed in a visible
position outside the enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 5-305)
§ 150.040 BRANCH CIRCUITS.
   In residential and mercantile occupancies, lighting branch circuits shall be
confined to 1,000 watts, and not more than eight outlets per circuit will be
allowed in the fire limits. Branch circuit conductors shall be smaller than No.
12. Type C lamp cord will not be permitted in the kitchen or restaurants or
like places where grease accumulates, nor in part of a building where live
poultry is confined.
(Prior Code, § 5-306)
§ 150.041 BASEMENT INSTALLATIONS.
   A circuit of not less than No. 12 wire shall be installed in basements in
any area subject to floods. Ground connections shall not be made in toilets,
adjacent to salt storage, acid vapors or in any location where the grounding
conductor and fitting is likely to become corroded.
(Prior Code, § 5-307)
§ 150.042 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to install any electrical wiring,
fixtures or apparatus in or on any building or structure in the corporate
limits of this town or make extensions to any existing electrical installations
without first securing a permit from the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Applications for electrical permits shall be made to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer; and the applicant shall provide such plans, specifications and other
data as may be reasonably required.
   (C)   The fee for an electrical permit shall be as prescribed by motion or
resolution passed by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.043 INSPECTION FEE.
   The Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution may prescribe an
inspection fee to be paid to the town when electrical installations are
inspected by the electrical inspector.
(Prior Code, § 5-309)
§ 150.044 ELECTRICIANS REGISTRATION REQUIRED, BOND.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or appliance
electrician without a certificate of registration as such secured from the
electrical inspector. The initial fee for an electrical contractor’s
registration certificate, and any renewal, to be paid to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, shall be as set by the Town Board. A registration certificate must
be renewed within 90 days following expiration of the certificate. After the
expiration, an application for a new certificate must be requested and the
initial fee paid again. Except in case of renewal, the applicant must have
passed an examination given by the electrical inspector and demonstrated the
qualifications of the applicant for the certificate applied for. All such
certificates shall expire June 30. This certificate is not transferable to any
other individual or company.
   (B)   Every person receiving a certificate as an electrical contractor or
appliance electrician shall file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a bond in such
sum as set by the Town Board executed with a surety company authorized to do
business in the state. The bond shall be conditioned that the principal will
install all electrical wiring, fixtures, appliances and equipment in accordance
with the law and the ordinances and other regulations of the town relating to
electrical installations and in a workmanlike manner; that the principal shall,
without further cost to the person for whom the work was done, remedy any
defective or faulty work caused by poor workmanship or inferior or nonstandard
material; and that the town may be fully indemnified and held harmless from any
and all costs, expenses or damage resulting from the performance of his or her
work as an electrical contractor or appliance electrician, as the case may be.
   (C)   The bond must be approved by the Building Inspector. No certificate
shall be issued to any such person until the bond shall have been filed and
approved. Any such certificate issued shall be valid only while the bond is in
effect.
   (D)   For the installing of bell, telephone or signal systems not using over
12 volts, no certificate or bond will be required. The installation of same
must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances of the town.
   (E)   After adequate opportunity for a hearing and for just cause, the Town
Board may revoke the certificate of an electrical contractor an appliance
electrician or a journeyman electrician.
(Prior Code, § 5-310) Penalty, see §
150.999
GAS PIPING CODE
§ 150.055 PAMPHLET ADOPTED.
   Pamphlet No. 54, published by the National Fire Protection Association,
entitled National Fuel Gas Code, the latest edition thereof, hereby adopted and
incorporated in this code by reference. The pamphlet shall be in full force and
effect in the town and shall govern the installation of gas piping and gas
appliances in the town. Any violation of the provisions of the pamphlet shall
be deemed a violation of the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
OTHER BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.070 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
fabricate, assemble, install or repair any system, container, apparatus or
appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing or utilization
of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle or store such gas, unless
such person has complied with and complies with all provisions of the law and
ordinances relating thereto, and has any license or permit which may be
required by state law. The pamphlet, Storage and Handling of Liquefied,
Petroleum Gases, as contained in Pamphlet No. 58 issued by the National Fire
Protection Association, the latest edition thereof, adopted by the State
Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board, shall have full force and effect within this
town. Any violation of these rules and regulations shall be deemed a violation
of the ordinances of the town and shall be punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 5-401) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.071 BUILDING NUMBERING.
   (A)   Numbering required. All lots, buildings and structures in the town
shall be numbered in accordance with the following plan:
      (1)   North and south numbers shall commence at Buffalo Street;
      (2)   East and west numbers shall commence at Main Street;
      (3)   Odd numbers shall be on the east and north sides of the streets;
      (4)   Even numbers shall be on the south and west sides of the streets;
and
      (5)   There shall be one number to every 50 feet of frontage.
(Prior Code, § 12-401)
   (B)   Map. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a map showing the proper
street number of every lot in the town, which shall be open to inspection by
any interested person.
(Prior Code, § 12-402)
   (C)   Number of houses. It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of
every house in the town to have placed thereon, in a place visible from the
street, figures at least two and one-half inches high, showing the number of
the house.
(Prior Code, § 12-403)
§ 150.072 SIGNS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SIGN. Any fabricated display structure, including its structure,
consisting of any letter, figure, character, mark, point, plane, marquee,
design, poster, pictorial, window sticker, stroke, strike, line, trademark,
reading or illuminating device, which is constructed, attached, fastened or
manufactured in any manner so that the same shall be used for the attraction of
the public to any place, subject, person, firm, corporation, public
performance, article, machine or merchandise and displayed in any manner out of
doors for recognized advertising purposes.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign intended for a limited period of time, including
decoration displays for holidays or public demonstrations, discount sales and
the like.
   (B)   Permit.
      (1)   No person may erect or display a sign within the town limits
without first obtaining a permit from the town. Permits can be obtained at Town
Hall Monday through Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Permit fees will be
established by resolution.
      (2)   All signs placed on poles or other structures must have a certified
architectural drawing included with the permit application to ensure wind load
requirements are being met.
   (C)   Abatement. Violations of this section leading to abatement shall be
proceeded against as follows:
      (1)   The owner or their designee of any property where a sign is in
violation of this section shall be notified by mail, utilizing a certificate of
mailing that contains the date and postal stamp, personal service and/or
posting of the violation notice at the location of the violation. The notice
shall contain the violation, the due process notification and that the sign is
in violation and must be removed from the premises or the violation otherwise
corrected within ten days from the service of notice.
      (2)   If violation continues after ten days, the matter will be summarily
abated. The owner of said property can request an administrative hearing if she
or she files a request with the Town Administrator or his or her designee or
the Code Enforcement Officer within the ten-day notification period.
      (3)   If, at the requested administrative hearing, the sign(s) are found
to still be in violation, the owner or his or her designee of said sign(s) may,
within ten days, appeal to the Town Board of Trustees by filing a request for
appeal to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   If the sign(s) are found to still be in violation by ruling of the
Town Board of Trustees, the property owner or their designee will be dealt with
in the following manner:
         (a)   Any sign(s) in violation of this section shall be removed and
impounded at the expense of the owner of subject sign(s); and
         (b)   All fees and expenses shall be paid before said sign(s) are
returned to owner. Any unpaid fees and/or fines shall be handled through the
Town Court and/or property liens as per state law.
   (D)   Dilapidated.
      (1)   Signs must be constructed of durable materials, be maintained in
good condition and not be permitted to become dilapidated.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (D), DILAPIDATED would include a
sign that:
         (a)   Can no longer be read because of fading and wear;
         (b)   A sign with lights that no longer operate;
         (c)   Plastic or glass paneled signs that have been broken or have
visible cracks; and
         (d)   Excessive rust on the base or other construction materials and
the like.
      (3)   Signs that fall in disrepair can be abated if the owner of the
property does not correct the noted issues. Such abatement shall occur
according to the following.
         (a)   The cost of abatement will be the responsibility of the property
owner.
         (b)   The abatement procedures will be to advise the owner of the
deficiency and allow him or her ten days to correct the problem.
         (c)   If after ten days the problem has not been resolved, the owner
will be notified via certificate of mailing or hand delivery that the violation
was not corrected and that the sign will be removed.
         (d)   The sign will then be removed.
         (e)   The owner will be advised of the cost of the removal and then
given 30 days to pay.
         (f)   Failure to pay within 30 days will result in a lien being placed
on the property through the County Treasurer for the amount owed plus
administrative fees.
   (E)   Prohibitions. Signs shall not be erected or maintained which:
      (1)   Imitate or resemble any official traffic sign, signal or device;
      (2)   Are maintained upon trees, drawn upon rocks or other natural
feature;
      (3)   Are maintained in such a manner as to obscure or otherwise
physically interfere with an official traffic sign, signal or device;
      (4)   Will obstruct or physically interfere with the driver’s view of
approaching, merging or intersecting traffic;
      (5)   Are overly bright or flashing, including, but not limited to,
lights that are flashing, intermittent, revolving or moving; and with the
exception of public service information such as time, date, temperature, on
signs that are on premises;
      (6)   Emit beams of light from or rays of light from being directed at
any portion of the traveled way on any streets or primary highway and/or are of
such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or to impair the vision of the
driver of any motor vehicle; and
      (7)   The light of which encroaches on any other property. This would
include, but not be limited to, any residence, apartment, hotel, motel, park,
recreation area or any other business.
   (F)   Size of signs. The maximum size limitations shall apply to each sign
facing.
      (1)   Temporary signs (as defined above) can be no bigger than 12 square
feet in size.
      (2)   Signs (non-temporary) shall be as follows.
         (a)   Two signs not to exceed 60 square feet each may be erected in a
facing, side by side or double-decked. Back-to-back or V-type signs will be
permitted and shall be treated as one structure with a total allow space of 120
square feet, with 15 feet between structure or faces to allow for cross-
bracing.
         (b)   Signs placed on the face of a building cannot extend above the
roof line or beyond the width of the building.
         (c)   Signs placed on separate poles or structures on the property for
the advertising of the specific business or location may not exceed 25 feet in
height and 60 square feet on either side of the sign.
         (d)   Billboards within the town limits cannot be greater than 240
square feet on either side, may not exceed 25 feet in height and placement will
have to be approved.
   (G)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs are permitted in the town if they
meet the conditions listed below.
      (1)   Temporary signs used for holidays, public demonstrations,
promotions of civic welfare or charitable purposes, which extend across streets
or other public spaces will be subject to approval by the town.
      (2)   Temporary signs are not allowed up for longer than a period of 15
days. The exception is the residential sale signs, which will be removed daily
and only be allowed for the dates of the sale.
   (H)   Placement. No sign, temporary or permanent, can be placed on any town
owned property, right-of-way or areas of easement without approval from the
Board of Trustees.
   (I)   Regulations.
      (1)   Signs will be erected and maintained in accordance with all other
building codes and ordinances previously adopted, as well as those listed in
this section.
      (2)   Any conflict in codes or ordinances will be resolved at the
discretion of Code Enforcement, with the option to appeal to the Board of
Trustees.
   (J)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Violations of this section can be handled through the Town Police
Department and/or Code Enforcement office.
      (2)   Persons, firms or corporations in violation of this section can be
fined and/or subject to abatement.
(Ord. 2023-004, passed 3-14-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply
therewith or with any of the requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs,
alters, repairs or removes, or has erected, constructed, altered, repaired or
removed a building or structure in violation of a detailed statement or plan
submitted and approved thereunder or of a permit or certificate issued
thereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined any sum as provided in §
10.99, including costs. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
   (B)   Any person, film or corporation who shall engage in any business,
trade or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate or registration is
required by this chapter, without having a valid license, permit, certificate
or certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything
required by this chapter or by any code adopted by this chapter, or who shall
otherwise violate any provision of the chapters in this chapter or of any code
adopted by this chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order
made by any of the officers provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)
   (C)   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere
with the right of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for
a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against such person, firm
or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 5-702)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to so number any house,
building or other structure occupied by such person, or if after receiving
notice to do so from the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall continue in failure to so
number such house, building or structure, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 for each day during or on which a failure to so number continues.
(Prior Code, § 12-404)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose and intent; applicability
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Mobile home occupancy permit
   
151.04   Use, occupancy and location of mobile homes and modular structures
   
151.05   Temporary nonresidential use of mobile homes and modular structures
   
151.06   General requirements for mobile home parks
   
151.07   Location requirements
   
151.08   Free-standing mobile home sites
   
151.09   Mobile home park licenses required
   
151.10   Development standards
   
151.11   Mobile home tie downs and skirting
   
151.12   Codes applicable
   
151.13   Other regulations applicable
   
151.14   Permit required
   
151.15   Permits not transferable
   
151.16   Violation and appeal
   
151.17   Relief in the courts
   
151.18   Violation by corporate officers and agents
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish and provide
minimum acceptable standards, requirements and regulations for the planned use,
development and maintenance of mobile homes within the corporate limits of the
town, to include both free-standing mobile homes and those located in mobile
home parks, in the interest of the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no mobile home shall be used or
maintained, and no mobile home park or mobile home site shall be used,
maintained or developed except in conformance with the standards of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-301) (Ord. 2022-003, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority charged
with the administration and enforcement of this code.
   DEVELOPER. Any person engaged in the development or planning of a mobile
home park.
   DWELLING. Any structure or vehicle occupied or used primarily for a
residential premises which may or may not contain sleeping, bath, toilet,
cooking and refrigeration facilities.
   EXPANSION OF A MOBILE HOME PARK. Increasing either the total land area or
the total number of mobile homes or mobile home spaces or lots in a park.
   FREE-STANDING MOBILE HOME. Any mobile home not located in a mobile home park
or mobile home subdivision.
   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured, detached structure which is originally
designed, constructed and used for long-term occupancy as a complete single-
family dwelling, is mounted on a permanent chassis with wheels attached
thereto, and which is transportable in one or more sections at least eight feet
in width and 28 feet in length.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Land or property that is used or intended to be used or
rented for occupancy by mobile homes, including all necessary utilities,
streets and other common amenities.
   MOBILE HOME PARK SITE PLAN. A scale drawing prepared by a registered
architect, landscape architect, engineer or land surveyor which meets the
requirements of §
151.06(B) for a mobile home park.
   MOBILE HOME PERMIT. A permit issued by the town for construction and/or
operation of a mobile home park or a mobile home site.
   MOBILE HOME SITE. A plat, lot or tract of land designed to accommodate a
free-standing mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plat, lot or tract of land within a mobile home park
designed to accommodate one mobile home.
   MODULAR STRUCTURE. A transportable, non-vehicular, prefabricated structure,
requiring an independent foundation, which is designed and constructed for
movement from a point of fabrication to a permanent erection or location site.
    PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit has been issued within the scope of
this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, trust, association, corporation or
combination thereof.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type unit designed primarily for temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either has its
own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle and has its own
potable water storage tank and waste storage tank. For the purposes of this
chapter. RECREATIONAL VEHICLES shall be considered a mobile home when occupied
more than 90% of the time for 30 or more consecutive days.
   STRUCTURAL ADDITION. Any roofed, canopied or enclosed porch, room or
structure used in connection with a mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 12-302) (Ord. 2022-003, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 151.03 MOBILE HOME OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   No occupancy permits for any mobile or manufactured home, whether free-
standing or located in a mobile home park and located within the town after the
date of this chapter unless such mobile or manufactured home shall meet all the
following safety and health requirements.
   (A)   The mobile or manufactured home shall meet and conform to the
standards of 63 O.S. § 1084, or any successor statute as well as any federal
standards related to mobile or manufactured home construction safety.
   (B)   The mobile home shall be less than five years old or a variance
approved by the Town Board.
   (C)   Tie down anchors shall be securely installed in soil providing a
stable foundation for the mobile home.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of any
mobile home, within a period of no longer than 30 days after moving such mobile
home onto an approved site, to cause such mobile home to be totally skirted of
metal or other non-degradable solid material.
      (2)   The skirting shall be secured to the mobile home and to the ground
in a manner that will prevent the intrusion of animals and will reduce the
hazards of strong winds under said home.
   (E)   The town reserves the right to request that home be inspected if any
of the items in this section are questionable to any representative of the
town.
(Ord. 2022-003, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 151.04 USE, OCCUPANCY AND LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES AND MODULAR STRUCTURES.
   The use, occupancy and location of mobile homes and modular structures are
governed by the provisions of this chapter and the code of ordinances of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 12-303)
§ 151.05 TEMPORARY NONRESIDENTIAL USE OF MOBILE HOMES AND MODULAR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary permit required; requirements for issuance established.
      (1)   Any person who desires to use a mobile home or a modular structure
on a temporary basis for a field or local branch office, for demonstration or
for a charitable and nonprofit purpose may do so upon issuance of a temporary
mobile home permit by the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The prospective user shall
apply for such permit by filing a written application with the Code Enforcement
Official, accompanied by a non-refundable application fee of $100, payable to
the town. Such application shall include the exact location where the mobile
home or modular structure will be placed, a full explanation and description of
the use or activity which will be conducted within the mobile home or modular
structure, and a statement specifying the period of time for which such
temporary use will be required.
      (2)   Upon a finding by the Code Enforcement Official that the proposed
use is permitted by this section, that such use will not exceed 12 months in
duration and upon the applicant’s posting a cash or surety removal bond as
hereinafter required, the official shall issue a temporary mobile home permit
for any requested period of time not exceeding 12 months.
   (B)   Removal bond. Prior to the issuance of a temporary mobile home permit,
the applicant shall post with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a cash or surety bond in
the amount of $500 to defray removal costs in the event the applicant fails to
remove the mobile home or modular structure at the expiration of the temporary
mobile home permit.
   (C)   Permit for extended use.
      (1)   The use of any property as a temporary location site for a mobile
home or modular structure in excess of 12 months shall not be considered to be
a temporary use within the meaning of this section, and no additional temporary
permits shall be issued by the Code Enforcement Official; provided, however,
that permits for extended temporary use beyond the initial 12 months may be
obtained by the following persons:
         (a)   Building contractors involved with an ongoing construction
project on the same property on which such mobile home or modular structure is
located; and
         (b)   Public schools (as defined in 70 O.S. § 1-106) using such mobile
home or modular structure as temporary classrooms.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Official shall either issue the requested
permit for extended use or deny the application in writing, giving the reasons
for such denial, within ten working days after the filing of such application.
No extended use permit shall be issued for a period of time exceeding 12
months. Extended use permits may be re-issued by the Code Enforcement Official
upon the expiration of an existing extended use permit.
   (D)   Limitations upon occupancy of temporarily located mobile homes and
modular structures. Holders of temporary permits and their employees may occupy
a mobile home or a modular structure on a 24-hour basis, provided that:
      (1)   Such occupancy is accessory and subordinate to a principal
nonresidential use of the property upon which such mobile home or modular
structure is located; and
      (2)   Such 24-hour occupancy does not thereby establish a dwelling unit
within the meaning of the zoning code of the town and 42 O.S. unless otherwise
permitted by a zoning variance granted by the Town Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 12-304)
§ 151.06 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   (1)   Utility connections. Electrical, mechanical and plumbing
connections, where required, shall comply with the respective codes of the
town.
      (2)   Fire hydrants.
         (a)   Where existing fire hydrants are farther than 1,000 feet from
the most distant mobile home or recreational vehicle space, additional fire
hydrants shall be provided and located as required by the Fire Chief of the
town.
         (b)   The Fire Chief shall approve or deny submitted plans within
seven days after receipt thereof.
      (3)   Street lighting. Streetlamps shall be positioned no less than every
200 feet throughout the park. Such lamps shall be 20 feet above ground level
and shall contain bulbs of at least 100 watts. All lamps shall be shaded and
positioned so as to avoid glare on adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 12-305)
   (B)   The following general provisions shall apply to mobile home parks.
      (1)   Every person desiring to create, establish, expand, develop or
construct a mobile home park shall submit a site plan application on the forms
supplied by the town. Such application shall include the following:
         (a)   A legal description of the site;
         (b)   A filing fee of $200; and
         (c)   A site plan which shall include the following on a scaled
drawing of appropriate dimensions:
            1.   Written legal description of the site, including the size of
the property in acres, or a fraction, thereof;
            2.   Approval by a registered engineer, architect, landscape
surveyor licensed in the state, so indicated by signature and seal;
            3.   A north arrow, date, scale and appropriate legend;
            4.   Two-foot contour intervals;
            5.   Location and size of all easements, utilities and rights-of-
way existing and proposed;
            6.   All public and private streets, including paving type;
            7.   Location and size of all existing and proposed structures,
including mobile home spaces;
            8.   Location and size of open space or common areas;
            9.   Location and type of landscaping and ground cover;
            10.   Location and type of material and in fences and other
screening;
            11.   Language with signature blocks to indicate the approval of
the owners of the land and the town for recording purposes; and
            12.   A scale drawing of appropriate dimension of a typical mobile
home space which shows the location and size of all existing permanent
improvements, including pads, off-street parking with surface types, utility
connections and all front, side and rear yard setback distances.
      (2)   The town may require certain alterations, modifications or
amendments of the mobile home park site plan when deemed necessary for the
inclusion of easements, rights-of-way and utilities and the like. Improvement
bonds may also be required for public utilities on the subject property for
fire hydrants, water lines, sewer lines, drainage structures and other similar
projects.
      (3)   The site plan shall be reviewed by the Town Board of Trustees for
compliance with this chapter and other relevant provisions of this code.
      (4)   The town shall approve, approve conditionally or return for further
study or disapprove the site plan. Approval of the site plan shall be
documented by the signatures of the presiding officers of the town, and
acceptance by signature of the owner(s) on the certificate located on the
original of the site plan. A reproducible copy of the site plan with all
required signatures shall be furnished to the town at the applicant’s expense.
      (5)   Occupancy permits for the mobile home park will be issued only
after inspection by the town and only if the mobile home park has been
developed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the approved
site plan.
      (6)   (a)   It shall be the responsibility of every person owning a
mobile home park to maintain a current register of the names of all mobile home
owners within such mobile home park and the date every mobile home was brought
within such mobile home park.
         (b)   For reasonable cause, such register shall be available during
normal working hours for inspection by the town.
      (7)   A mobile home shall not be allowed, permitted or authorized in any
street or public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 12-309)
§ 151.07 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   A mobile home for living or sleeping purposes shall only be located, used,
kept and maintained within a mobile home park as duly permitted and provided
for in this chapter; provided, that a free-standing mobile home may be located
on a mobile home site that is in compliance with this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-306)
§ 151.08 FREE-STANDING MOBILE HOME SITES.
   (A)   General provisions. The following general provisions shall apply to
free-standing mobile homes.
      (1)   Every person desiring to create, establish, expand, develop or
construct a mobile home site shall submit a site plan which includes the
following:
         (a)   A legal description of the property; and
         (b)   A scaled drawing of appropriate dimensions which includes the
following:
            1.   Written legal description of the site, including the size of
the site in square feet or in acres;
            2.   Location of the site on the property;
            3.   Location and size of existing and other proposed structures on
the property;
            4.   Location and size of all easements, utilities and rights-of-
way, existing and proposed; and
            5.   A north arrow, date, scale and appropriate legend.
      (2)   Each mobile home site shall satisfy all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   It shall have an all-weather surfaced entry area, consisting of
gravel, asphalt or concrete;
         (b)   It shall have at least two all-weather (consisting of gravel,
asphalt or concrete) off-street parking spaces together measuring no less than
18 feet wide and 20 feet long;
         (c)   The mobile home shall be not less than 20 feet from any other
mobile home or permanent building, including any structural additions thereto;
         (d)   The mobile home shall be not less than the setback distance of
25 feet from the front yard, and 15 feet for the rear and any exterior property
line, easement or right-of-way, and ten feet from the side yard lines;
         (e)   Connections to utilities shall adhere to the provisions
contained in §
151.12; and
         (f)   The site shall be arranged so that it abuts on a driveway or
street of at least 16 feet in width, giving access directly from a public
street. All driveways and roads shall be graded so as to have natural drainage
and shall be well lit at night and unobstructed.
   (B)   Any mobile home site permitted, allowed and authorized within the
corporate limits of the town prior to the effective date of this chapter and in
compliance with any laws hereby repealed or amended, may continue to be
maintained under the laws then in effect; provided, however, that all mobile
homes whether or not previously existing shall be maintained in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   A mobile home site permitted hereunder shall be deemed abandoned if
not used for a period of six months after the effective date of this chapter
and shall thereafter be required to comply with all of its provisions.
   (D)   Any person seeking to expand any mobile home site shall comply with
all the provisions of this chapter as they affect and pertain to that portion
of such mobile home site, or that tract of land, sought to be expanded upon.
(Prior Code, § 12-307)
§ 151.09 MOBILE HOME PARK LICENSES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain or
permit to be established, operated or maintained upon any property controlled
or owned by him or her, a mobile homes park, as defined in this chapter,
without having first secured a license therefor and having paid the filing fee
for inspection of the construction of such park.
(Prior Code, § 12-308) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Development of mobile home parks shall be in accordance with the following
standards.
   (A)   Dimensional and site development requirements. The minimum lot size
for a mobile home park shall be 90,000 contiguous square feet. Open space,
streets and drainage of the mobile home park shall meet the requirements stated
below.
      (1)   No less than 10% nor more than one acre of a mobile home park
exclusive of easements, rights-of-way, setbacks or shelters shall be required
to be designated, preserved and set apart for common facilities open space and
recreation. Where possible, this open space or recreation area should be
consolidated to provide a meaningful recreation area.
      (2)   (a)   A convenient circulation system for vehicular movement shall
be provided within a mobile home park by means of minor streets and properly
located collector streets. Collector streets shall be hard surfaced for a
minimum width of 29 feet. All other streets and drives shall be hard surfaced
for a minimum width of 20 feet.
         (b)   Private streets and drives may provide parallel parking on one
side provided an additional eight feet of width is hard surfaced.
         (c)   Private streets and drives may be one-way only when less than
500 feet long, serving less than 25 mobile home spaces, and a minimum of 16
feet wide; and
         (d)   Dead-end streets shall have a cul-de-sac with a diameter of no
less than 80 feet.
      (3)   The drainage system of all lots shall be designed in accordance
with all relevant provisions of this code to minimize the possibilities of soil
erosion, sedimentation and increased runoff which might cause flooding of
downstream properties. Adequate easements shall be provided to protect drainage
ways from encroachment, and to protect property from drainage by periodic
flooding. Excavation of topographic area having a grade of more than 10% shall
be prohibited unless it is determined that adequate provisions to control
erosion that may result from such excavation are guaranteed. Alternatives to
sodding or seeding may be considered when said alternative method is intended
to accomplish the limiting of dust, erosion and sedimentation of drainage
areas.
   (B)   Individual lot requirements. Each mobile home space shall satisfy all
of the following requirements.
      (1)   It shall have a hard surfaced entry area.
      (2)   It shall have two hard surfaced off-street parking spaces no less
than 18 feet in width by 20 feet.
      (3)   It shall have a visible identifying number.
      (4)   It shall provide setbacks as set forth in §
151.12.
      (5)   No mobile home, mobile home addition, storage building or related
structure or appurtenance shall be located, constructed or maintained within
any street, dedicated easement, right-of-way or drainage area.
   (C)   Sanitation. A mobile home that does not have a built-in bathroom with
water closet, lavatory and shower or tub in working condition shall not be
maintained, authorized, permitted nor occupied in a mobile home park.
   (D)   Utilities. Utility service shall be provided in a safe and reliable
manner in accordance with the following specifications.
      (1)   All plumbing and electrical systems, connections, installations,
fixtures and equipment shall be installed and maintained in full compliance
with those applicable provisions of this section and this code.
      (2)   (a)   An adequate supply of safe water of satisfactory quality
under sufficient pressure shall be provided to and for all mobile homes and
utility buildings. Water connections shall be made to the town’s water
distribution system where feasible, and when not feasible, to a water system
that is maintained in accordance with the standards, regulations and laws of
the state relating thereto.
         (b)   Adequate fire hydrant facilities with the required fire flow
shall be specified and approved by the town for each mobile home park.
      (3)   An approved sewer disposal system, being adequate and safe, shall
be provided for each mobile home and community structure having plumbing
fixtures therein. A sewer connection shall be made to the town’s sanitary sewer
where feasible, and where not feasible, to a sewer system that is constructed
or maintained in accordance with the standards, regulations and laws of the
state relating thereto.
      (4)   The design of the electrical system shall meet the criteria of the
utility company furnishing service.
      (5)   All interior private streets, drives and pedestrians’ walkways
within a mobile home park shall be lighted at night with light equivalent to 60
watts at intervals of 200 feet.
      (6)   Methods and facilities for the collection, storage, handling and
disposal of garbage and refuse shall be provided for as determined and in
accordance with this code.
   (E)   Community fuel supply and storage. The installation, use and storage
of gas shall be in accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   A gas piping system, if installed, and maintained in accordance
with all pertinent provisions of this section, the town’s fire prevention code,
and the laws of the state relating to plumbing, so as to provide a supply of
gas sufficient to meet the maximum demand without undue loss of pressure at the
connection point to the mobile home furthest from the source of supply. All gas
piping shall be installed by a licensed contractor only.
      (2)   The gas supply shall be connected in the proper manner, ensuring
that the piping is properly purged and free from leaks and that all appliances
are suitable for the supply.
      (3)   Before a mobile home is moved, adequate arrangements shall be made
to assure that all gas connections are properly disconnected.
      (4)   If liquefied petroleum gas is to be used, its installation and
storage shall be in strict compliance with all applicable provisions of this
code and the statutes of the state.
   (F)   Service, administrative and other buildings. Buildings maintained and
intended for uses other than a dwelling shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   One mobile home may be used as an administrative office. Other
administrative offices and service buildings for housing sanitation, laundry or
other facilities shall be of permanent structure, complying with all pertinent
provisions of this code relating to construction and maintenance, for the use
of all park residents.
      (2)   All service buildings shall be adequately lighted at all times,
well-ventilated with screen openings and constructed of such moisture proof
materiel, including painted woodwork to permit repeated cleaning and washing,
and shall be provided with space heating equipment adequate to maintain 68°F in
temperature at outside design conditions.
      (3)   All service buildings and grounds of a mobile home park shall be
maintained in a clean and sightly condition, free from any condition that will
menace the health of any mobile home park resident therein or otherwise
constitute a nuisance.
   (G)   Fire protection. No tow car or mobile home shall be parked, placed or
allowed to remain at any time on a public or private street, or pedestrian
walkway within a mobile home park. Fire hydrants located no greater than 600
feet apart as measured by street travel requiring the inspection and approval
of the Fire Chief, and water mains, both of adequate size and number, shall be
provided for the protection of the mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 12-310)
§ 151.11 MOBILE HOME TIE DOWNS AND SKIRTING.
   (A)   Tie downs. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of
any mobile home to cause such mobile home to be anchored and tied down securely
in accordance with the following minimal standards within a period of no longer
than 30 days after moving a mobile home into a mobile home park.
      (1)   A mobile home with integrated or integral tie down attachments
shall be utilized in accordance with the mobile home manufacturers installation
procedures.
      (2)   Mobile homes without integrated or integral tie down attachments
shall utilize over the home tie downs as follows: A mobile home shall have two
over the home ties, each to be as close to each end of said home as possible
with the straps at the stud and rafter points.
      (3)   In addition to the over-the-home straps, a mobile home greater than
50 feet but less than or equal to 70 feet in length shall have two frame ties
at the center of said home, and a mobile home greater than 70 feet in length
shall have four frame ties spaced along the center of said home.
      (4)   Double-wide mobile homes need not be provided with over-the-home
ties. Frame ties shall be provided with at least four required for double-wide
mobile homes less than 50 feet in length; at least six required for double-wide
mobile homes greater than 50 feet but less than or equal to 70 feet in length;
and at least eight required for mobile homes greater than 70 feet in length.
      (5)   Tie down anchors shall be securely installed in soil providing a
stable foundation to withstand a minimum pull of 3,750 pounds for each ten feet
of a mobile home.
      (6)   All ties and connectors shall be of a type approved by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development (H.U.D.) for mobile home
anchoring.
      (7)   All piers shall be of standard concrete block construction, eight
by 16 inches, spaced at no more than ten-foot intervals and no further than
five feet from the ends of a mobile home. Piers shall rest on solid concrete
blocks or pads of concrete measuring no less than eight by 16 by four inches
forming a base 16 inches square. For leveling purposes, wood blocking no less
than the nominal dimensions of eight by 16 inches with a maximum thickness of
four inches can be used.
   (B)   Skirting. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of
any mobile home, within a period of no longer than 30 days after moving such
mobile home into a mobile home park, to cause such mobile home to be totally
skirted of metal or other non-degradable solid material. The skirting shall be
secured to the mobile home and to the ground in a manner that will prevent the
intrusion of animals and will reduce the hazards of strong winds under said
home.
(Prior Code, § 12-311)
§ 151.12 CODES APPLICABLE.
   (A)   All plumbing, electrical, building and other work on any park licensed
under this chapter shall be performed in accordance with the ordinances of the
town regulating the same unless said ordinances are specifically made
inapplicable under the terms thereof or under the terms of this chapter; only a
person who is properly licensed under the provisions of this code may connect
and disconnect water, gas and sewage facilities to mobile homes located in any
park and any free-standing mobile home site.
   (B)   Sewer connection inspection fees for mobile home parks shall be those
applicable to family dwellings, and each site within the park shall be deemed a
family living unit.
(Prior Code, § 12-312)
§ 151.13 OTHER REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   All ordinances enacted by the town pertaining to traffic and vehicles, the
control of pets and/or animals, shall be fully as effective within the park as
though streets and driveways were dedicated to public use, and the consent and
agreement of the owner of said park, streets and highways thereto shall be a
condition precedent to the issuance of said license.
(Prior Code, § 12-313)
§ 151.14 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required to move mobile home. It is unlawful for any person to
move any mobile home or modular home along or across any street or public way
within the corporate limits of the town without a permit from the Town Clerk-
Treasurer; provided, that nothing contained herein shall apply to the moving of
mobile homes through the town strictly on any state or federal highway.
   (B)   Permit required to locale mobile home within corporate limits.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to locate a mobile home or modular home in a
mobile home park or on a free-standing mobile home site, without first
obtaining a permit from the Town Board of Trustees for such purpose. All
applicants shall appear, either personally or by a duly authorized
representative, at a meeting of the Board of Trustees, at which time the
Trustees shall review the application.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued except after approval of the Board of
Trustees at such meeting.
   (C)   Application. All applications for permits to move or locate mobile
homes or modular homes in the town shall be made to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
Such application shall be in writing and shall accurately state the route over
which the mobile home or modular home is proposed to be moved, and the proposed
new location thereof, giving the lot, block and addition, or legal description.
Such application shall further state the proposed date or dates for the moving
of such mobile home or modular home, and shall further state the height of the
home when loaded and whether it shall be necessary to raise, lower or cut any
wires or cable belonging to a public service corporation or the town, and make
any cuts or alterations in the paving or public streets in the town.
   (D)   Inspection. Prior to the issuance of a permit to locate a mobile home
within the corporate limits of the town, the Code Enforcement Official of the
town shall be afforded reasonable access to the mobile home to ascertain
whether unsafe conditions exist. Such official shall be afforded similar access
upon application by a person for renewal or extension of any permit provided by
this chapter. Such reasonable access to any mobile home shall not be denied to
the Code Enforcement Official.
   (E)   Fees. Fees for any license, permit or inspection herein provide shall
be set by the Town Board of Trustees, by resolution, and may be changes or
modified by resolution from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 12-314) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.15 PERMITS NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
transferable.
(Prior Code, § 12-315)
§ 151.16 VIOLATION AND APPEAL.
   Any violation of this chapter, state statutes or other applicable law shall
constitute cause for denial or revocation of any permit required herein;
provided, however, that upon denial or revocation of any permit, an appeal of
the Code Enforcement Official’s action may be taken to the Town Council by
filing a notice of appeal with the Code Enforcement Official and the Town
Clerk-Treasurer within ten days of the Code Enforcement Official’s action.
(Prior Code, § 12-316)
§ 151.17 RELIEF IN THE COURTS.
   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere with the
right of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus, and injunction, or other appropriate action against such person, firm
or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 12-317)
§ 151.18 VIOLATION BY CORPORATE OFFICERS AND AGENTS.
   Violation of any of the terms or provision of this chapter by any
corporation or association shall subject the officers and agents actively in
charge of the business of such corporation or association, to the penalty
herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 12-318)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation found violating any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 12-319)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
152.01   Trees and obstruction of streets
   
152.02   Unlawful to injure trees and shrubbery
   
152.03   Unlawful obstructions
   
152.04   Unlawful to deposit trash upon the streets or sidewalks
   
152.05   Unlawful to play on streets
   
152.06   Vehicles not to be washed on street
   
152.07   Water, mud from vehicle not to drain into street
   
152.08   Water from filling stations and other businesses
   
152.09   Owner or occupant not to permit sidewalk or sidewalk area to become a
hazard
   
152.10   Street not to be obstructed so as to interfere with drainage
   
152.11   Pipeline construction under rights-of-way
   
152.12   Design criteria for streets
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 TREES AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   (A)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of this town shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. When such premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
   (B)   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim trees
and shrubbery as provided in division (A) above, after receiving five days’
notice from the head of the department in charge of streets to do so, shall be
guilty of an offense against the town. Every day that the owner or occupant
shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim the trees or shrubbery, after the
expiration of the five days’ notice, shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 14-101) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 UNLAWFUL TO INJURE TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the town; provided, that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 14-102) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 UNLAWFUL OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Merchandise. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
place upon or permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and
alleys of the town any goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other
obstruction, and leave same thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on
a business or trade.
(Prior Code, § 14-103)
   (B)   Unlawful to obstruct unduly sidewalks and streets. It is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the sidewalks of the town in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use
or obstruct the streets and alleys of the town in any manner so as to interfere
unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(Prior Code, § 14-104)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT TRASH UPON THE STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or
sweep into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the town any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or
other refuse of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 14-105) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 UNLAWFUL TO PLAY ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on the main-traveled portion of the
streets and alleys of the town, except as may be authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14-106) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 VEHICLES NOT TO BE WASHED ON STREET.
   The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any street of the town is
hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 14-107) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 WATER, MUD FROM VEHICLE NOT TO DRAIN INTO STREET.
   No automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any place within the town
where the water, dirt, mud or other substances removed therefrom by or during
the washing thereof, shall drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 14-108) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES.
   It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place
of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease
or other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk,
parking, street, alley or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 14-109) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 OWNER OR OCCUPANT NOT TO PERMIT SIDEWALK OR SIDEWALK AREA TO BECOME A
HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property
to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk, or sidewalk area.
(Prior Code, § 14-110) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 STREET NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED SO AS TO INTERFERE WITH DRAINAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk or alley, by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water,
into the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon
the streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutter.
(Prior Code, § 14-111) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION UNDER RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   A permit must be obtained from the Board of Trustees subsequent to the
construction of any petroleum product pipeline under the surface of streets,
alleys and other public ways within the town.
   (B)   (1)   Construction drawings must be submitted as a part of any
application for such permit. The pipeline shall be laid to a minimum depth of
three feet from the top of the pipeline or land surfaces, and all pavements
shall be restored to their original condition according to all specifications
after the work is completed on any segment of the pipeline.
      (2)   “As built” drawings shall be furnished to the town by the pipeline
company to show the precise locations, depths and the nature of all materials
installed in accordance with the permit.
   (C)   The pipeline company shall indemnify the town and hold the town
harmless from any loss or costs due to any claim or liability resulting from
construction or maintenance of the system or from operation of the pipeline in
any way. The pipeline company will hold the town harmless from any litigation
costs and attorneys’ fees incurred as a result of any construction, maintenance
or operation of the system.
   (D)   Wherever the line is to be put under any pavement without opening the
pavement, the line shall be run through a tunnel cased in accordance with
specifications to be approved by the town, adequate to support the pavement and
to support the traffic on the pavement.
   (E)   At least 45 days’ notice shall be given to the town before any new
construction work is scheduled on any street, alley or other public way on the
pipeline covered by this permit. The pipeline company will coordinate with the
town to assure that its construction work will not conflict with work scheduled
by the town.
   (F)   (1)   All work to be done under the provisions of this chapter shall
be performed in a good and workmanlike manner with materials suited for the
purpose, and full compliance with the provisions of all federal laws, state
laws and town ordinances relating construction.
      (2)   No sewer main or other town property shall be damaged in any way by
the pipeline company, and if any such town factory is damaged in violation of
this section, the repair of the damage; provided, that at the option of the
town it may notify the pipeline company to make the repairs promptly at the
pipeline company’s expense and the pipeline company shall thereupon perform all
the required repairs to the town’s specifications at the pipeline company’s
expense.
   (G)   Repairs or replacement of the pipeline by or in behalf of the pipeline
company may be initiated only after contact and or consultation with town
officials. All land surfaces and all pavements shall be restored to their
original condition according to specifications furnished by the town.
   (H)   (1)   The pipeline company shall maintain and operate the pipeline in
a safe manner at all times. The pipeline company shall, periodically, visually
inspect the pipeline for leaks using the most reliable equipment available for
that purpose. These inspections shall be made by the company not less often
than once every week.
      (2)   The written results of such inspections shall be forwarded to the
Board of Trustees on a quarterly basis.
   (I)   In consideration of the rights granted by a new construction/repair or
replacement permit, the pipeline company shall pay the town the sum of a
minimum of $100 at the time of accepting such permit.
(Prior Code, § 14-201)
§ 152.12 DESIGN CRITERIA FOR STREETS.
   (A)   Generally. Streets shall include earthwork, proper subgrade, base
course(s), wearing surface, concrete curb and gutters, proper backfill and
proper drainage structures, including storm sewers and inlets. A maintenance
bond or irrevocable letter of credit shall be posted in an amount equal to 100%
of the determined amount of construction costs for a two-year period.
   (B)   Plan sheets and profiles.
      (1)   All intersections, culs-de-sac and other critical locations shall
be shown in plan detail at a minimum scale of one inch equals 20 feet,
including direction of drainage, top of curb elevation at PCs, PTs and high or
low points. All curve information and drainage structures shall be shown in
detail.
      (2)   All drainage areas shall be clearly marked on the drainage area
plan sheet; showing acreage, runoff and off-site pickup points.
      (3)   A site plan showing proposed locations and elevations of all
utilities shall accompany the street and storm sewer plans.
      (4)   The profile may be either three separate profiles or one single
profile.
         (a)   Three separate profiles. When using three separate profiles, the
top and bottom shall show existing property line and proposed top of curb. The
middle profile shall show only existing centerline profile. Stationing shall be
along the centerline.
         (b)   One single profile. When using one single profile, both property
lines shall be shown along with the proposed top of curb. The centerline
profile shall not be shown. Stationing shall be along the centerline.
      (5)   All fill areas within the street right-of-way shall be cross-
hatched on the profile, and notation shall be made that the fill area shall be
compacted to a minimum of 95% standard proctor density. When storm sewer pipes
are located in fill area, the fill shall be made and compacted to finish grade,
then trenched for storm drain excavation.
      (6)   Curb returns with elevations shall be clearly labeled on profile.
      (7)   Vertical curves in profile shall give the top of curb elevation at
the PC, PI, PT and high or low point, at a minimum of 50 feet intervals.
      (8)   Storm sewers shall be located along centerline of streets unless
otherwise approved by the Town Engineer.
   (C)   Streets.
      (1)   Width of streets shall be according to the classifications as
follows. Width shall be measured from curb face to curb face or from edge of
design strength pavement.
 
  Commercial and industrial40 feet
Residential collector       36 feet
Residential (local)         26 feet
 
      (2)   All streets shall be constructed with concrete curbs.
      (3)   The centerline of paving shall be the centerline of right-of-way
where dedication has been made according to the major street plan.
      (4)   The minimum grade set along the curb shall be 0.5%. The maximum
desirable grade for non-arterial streets shall be limited to 8%. For situations
where the topography is unusually hilly, grades will be permitted up to a
maximum of 12% providing they do not exceed 500 feet in length from PT to PC.
      (5)   The grade of the curb returns will continue for the full arc on all
intersections where a midway opposing break is not provided.
      (6)   Design speed shall be 25 mph on all residential streets and 30 mph
on all collector streets.
       (7)   For horizontal curves, the minimum centerline radius on street
alignment shall be 125 feet.
      (8)   The minimum radius on returns at residential intersections shall be
25 feet. At intersections of a residential and arterial street, the minimum
radius on returns shall be 30 feet. At intersections of arterial streets, the
minimum radius on returns shall be 40 feet. The minimum radius on the returns
for industrial districts shall be 40 feet.
      (9)   The maximum grade of a residential street when intersecting an
arterial shall be 2% for a minimum of 100 feet from the curb line of the
arterial. No vertical curve shall begin any closer than 50 feet from the curb
line of the arterial. The maximum grade of residential streets at intersections
shall be 4%.
      (10)   A proposed and existing profile shall be shown beyond the end of
all dead-end streets for a minimum of 200 feet to determine a satisfactory
grade for future development.
      (11)   Cross slope may be one-fourth inch or three-eighths inch per foot;
however, crown will be flattened off so that crown never exceeds curb height.
      (12)   Proposed streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right
angles as topography and other limiting design factors permit.
      (13)   Proposed developments of residential areas shall keep to a minimum
the use of four-way intersections.
   (D)   Typical sections.
      (1)   Typical sections shall be drawn at the same horizontal and vertical
scale.
      (2)   Typical sections shall show dimensions, type of materials, layer
details, reserve topsoil, temporary and permanent erosion control, compacted
thickness and the like.
      (3)   All typical sections or notes that are necessary to clearly reflect
the design shall be included.
      (4)   The developer shall provide soil tests for all areas to be paved.
Soil tests will be submitted to the Town Engineer for approval. If soil tests
indicate that the soil has a plasticity index of ten or greater, a minimum of
six inches of subgrade shall be modified with a minimum of 5% hydrated lime by
weight or Class III fly ash. If the soil tests indicate that the soil is
granular and unstable, the method of stabilization shall be approved by the
Town Engineer. If desired, subgrade may be built of an approved borrow
material.
      (5)   Industrial and commercial pavement sections shall be a minimum of
ten-inch asphaltic concrete or eight-inch Portland cement concrete. Residential
pavement sections shall be a minimum of six and one-half inch asphaltic
concrete or six-inch Portland cement concrete.
      (6)   Pavement sections for secondary and primary arterial streets shall
be furnished by the Town Engineer’s office.
      (7)   Portland cement concrete streets shall have an integrally placed
curb of the same mix design as for street paving. The curb shall be a minimum
of six inches wide at the top and curb face shall be a minimum of six inches in
height exclusive of bottom fillet.
      (8)   Joints in Portland cement concrete paving, curbs and gutters shall
be placed in accordance with the Town Engineer’s recommendation.
      (9)   Asphaltic concrete streets shall have a Portland cement concrete
curb and gutter. The curb shall not be less than six inches wide at the top
with a six-inch face in height exclusive of bottom fillet and the gutter shall
be a minimum of 18 inches in width.
      (10)   Asphaltic concrete shall be Types A, B and C per the State
Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Highway Construction.
      (11)   Where Residential Estate (RE) zoning has been allowed, the typical
roadway section may be a minimum of six inches of stabilized aggregate base on
compacted subgrade with three inches of asphaltic concrete surface.
   (E)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of local and collector
streets.
      (2)   All sidewalks shall be of Portland cement concrete. Sidewalks shall
include pedestrian bridges across creeks and streams where applicable.
      (3)   The finished thickness of Portland cement concrete sidewalks shall
not be less than four inches, and the width shall be not less than four feet.
      (4)   In general, sidewalks shall be constructed within the dedicated
right-of-way at a distance not less than one foot from the abutting property
lines, and except at intersections or as approved by the town, shall be no less
than three feet from the outside curb line of the street pavements.
      (5)   Sidewalks must provide personable access for the safe and
convenient movement across curbs of physically handicapped persons, including
those persons in wheelchairs. Wheelchair ramps shall be constructed in
accordance with standard details provided by the Town Engineer’s office.
   (F)   Stormwater drainage criteria. All stormwater runoff shall be subject
to review and approval by the Town Engineer with regard to analysis, design and
construction of drainage facilities. The appropriate public authority shall
have the right to maintain or to cause to be maintained the drainage system for
its intended purposes.
   (G)   Adoption of state standards. The latest edition of the state Standard
Specifications for Highway Construction, as published by the State Department
of Transportation, are hereby adopted as the standard specifications for
grading, street, road and drainage construction for the town, except as amended
herein. In the event of any conflict between any of the provisions of the State
Standard Specifications for Highway Construction and the specific provisions
set forth herein, then in such event the specific provisions set forth herein
shall control.
(Prior Code, § 14-301)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 14-112)
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
152.11 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 14-202)
CHAPTER 153: OIL AND GAS DRILLING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Oil and gas drilling unlawful
   
153.02   Special exceptions
   
153.03   Oil and gas inspector
   
153.04   Fees
Regulations
   
153.15   Definitions
   
153.16   Permit
   
153.17   Permittees insurance and bond
   
153.18   Deeper drilling
   
153.19   Derrick and rig
   
153.20   Pits
   
153.21   Casing
   
153.22   Setting and cementing casing
   
153.23   Blow-out preventers
   
153.24   Drill stem tests
   
153.25   Premises to be kept clean and sanitary
   
153.26   Power
   
153.27   Storage tanks and separators
   
153.28   Fencing
   
153.29   Venting and flaring of gas
   
153.30   Disposal of saltwater
   
153.31   Prohibition against use of sewer system
   
153.32   Violation of state of federal laws or regulations
Procedures
   
153.45   Special exception procedures for oil and gas permits
   
153.46   Drilling phase
   
153.47   Completion phase
   
153.48   Operational phase
   
153.49   Abandonment
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 OIL AND GAS DRILLING UNLAWFUL.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person or other entity to engage in
the drilling of oil and gas wells within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-501) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The Town Board of Trustees may grant special exceptions to the prohibition
contained in §
153.01 and may authorize the issuance of a permit to allow the drilling of oil
and gas wells within the corporate limits of the town according to the terms
and conditions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-502)
§ 153.03 OIL AND GAS INSPECTOR.
   The town shall retain an oil and gas inspector who is knowledgeable in the
field to perform all inspections required and to review all information
submitted with any application and to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
The inspector is hereby empowered to revoke any such permit and thereby to
cause all operations to cease as he or she deems necessary in the process of
enforcing this chapter. In addition to the oil and gas inspector, the Board of
Trustees may engage the services of other professionals, including, but not
limited to, petroleum engineers, hydrologists and geologists, whose advice
shall be sought as needed during the application process.
(Prior Code, § 12-503)
§ 153.04 FEES.
   The town shall assess fees as set by motion or resolution in order to offset
the cost of performing the duties and responsibilities created hereby.
(Prior Code, § 12-504)
REGULATIONS
§ 153.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All
technical or oil and gas words or phrases used herein and not specifically
defined herein shall have that meaning customarily attributable thereto by
prudent operators in the oil and gas industry.
   LEASE. Any tract of land subject to an oil, gas and mineral lease or other
oil and gas development contract, or any unit composed of several tracts and
leased but operated as one lease, and any tract of land in which the minerals
are owned by an operator but which, due to the fee royalty ownership is
developed and operated as a separate tract.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom is issued a permit for the drilling and
operation of a well, and his, her or its administrators, executors, heirs,
successors and assigns.
   PERSON. Includes both the singular and the plural; and means any person,
individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, club, society,
cooperative, trust, municipal corporation or political subdivision whatsoever.
   RIG-UP. The process of setting up equipment and machinery for drilling
operations.
   WELL. Any hole or holes, bore or bores, to any sand, formation, strata or
depth for the purpose of producing and recovering any oil, gas, liquid
hydrocarbon or any of them.
(Prior Code, § 12-511)
§ 153.16 PERMIT.
   (A)   No permit shall be granted by the oil and gas inspector until the
Board of Trustees shall have granted a special exception as set forth in this
chapter.
   (B)   The permit shall:
      (1)   Embody all standard conditions specified herein and any special
conditions required by the Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Contain the total depth to which the well may be drilled; and
      (3)   Contain and specify that no operations shall be commenced until
permittee shall file and have approved an indemnity bond in the designated
principal amount as so determined by the Board of Trustees and conditioned a
specified in §
153.17.
(Prior Code, § 12-512)
§ 153.17 PERMITTEES INSURANCE AND BOND.
   (A)   In the event a special exception is granted by the Board of Trustees
for the drilling and operation of a well, no permit shall be issued until the
permittee shall file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a bond and a certificate of
insurance as follows.
      (1)   (a)   A bond in the principal sum as has been so determined by the
Town Board of Trustees, but not to be less than $50,000 per well nor more than
$100,000 per operator, the bond to be executed by a reliable insurance company
authorized to do business in the state as surety, and with applicant as
principal, returning to the town for the benefit of the town and all persons
concerned. The bond shall become effective on or before the date the same is
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and shall remain in force and effect for at
least a period of six months subsequent to the receipt of certified plugging
records.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the applicant to maintain the bond in
full force and effect for such period of time and in the event of cancellation
at any time the special exception permit or permits granted to applicant based
upon such bond shall be automatically revoked. The cancellation of the bond
will be conditioned on the permittee promptly paying all fines, penalties and
other assessments imposed upon permittee by reason of his or her breach of any
of the terms, provisions and conditions of the permit, and that the permittee
will promptly restore the streets and sidewalks and other public property of
the town, which may be disturbed or damaged in the operations, to their former
condition; and that the permittee will promptly clear all premises of all
litter, trash, waste and other substances used, allowed or occurring in the
drilling or producing operations, and will, after abandonment, grade, level and
restore the property to the same surface condition, as nearly as possible, as
existed when operations for the drilling of the well or wells first commenced;
and that the permittee will indemnify and hold the town harmless from any and
all liability growing out of or attributable to the granting of such permit.
         (c)   If at any time the Town Board of Trustees shall deem any
permittee’s bond to be insufficient for any reason, it may require the
permittee to file a new bond.
      (2)   (a)   In addition to the bond required in division (A)(1) above,
the permittee shall carry a policy or policies of standard comprehensive public
liability insurance, including contractual liability covering bodily injuries
and property damage, naming the permittee and the town as insureds with an
insurance company authorized to do business within the state. The policy or
policies in the aggregate shall provide for the following minimum coverage.
 
Bodily injuries per person $250,000
Per accident               $500,000
Property damage            $200,000
 
         (b)   Permittee shall file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer certificates
of the insurance as above stated, and shall obtain the written approval thereof
by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, who shall act thereon within ten days from the
date of such filing. The insurance policy or policies shall not be cancelled
without written notice to the Town Clerk-Treasurer at least 30 days prior to
the effective date of such cancellation. In the event the policy or policies
are cancelled, the permit granted shall terminate, and the permittee’s rights
to operate under the permit shall cease until permittee files additional
insurance as provided herein.
   (B)   If, after completion of a well, the permittee has complied with all of
the provisions of this chapter, such as to removing derrick, clearing premises
and the like, he or she may apply to the Town Board of Trustees to have the
insurance policies reduced as follows for the remainder of the time the well
produces without reworking. During any reworking operations, the amount of the
insurance policy or policies shall be increased back to the original amounts.
 
Bodily injuries per person $50,000
Per accident               $100,000
Property damage            $50,000
 
(Prior Code, § 12-513)
§ 153.18 DEEPER DRILLING.
   Once any well has either been completed as a producer or abandoned as a dry
hole, it shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to drill such well
a deeper depth than that reached in the prior drilling operations without the
permittee as to such well obtaining a new permit after filing an application.
(Prior Code, § 12-514) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.19 DERRICK AND RIG.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to use or operate in
connection with the drilling or reworking of any well within the corporate
limits of the town any wooden derrick or any steam-powered rig, and all engines
shall be equipped with adequate mufflers approved by the oil and gas inspector.
It shall further be a violation of this chapter to permit any drilling rig or
derrick to remain on the premises or drilling site for a period longer than 60
days after completion or abandonment of any well. At all times from the start
of erection of a derrick, or a mast, or a gin-pole, until the well is abandoned
and plugged or cased as a producer and enclosed with a fence as herein
provided, the permittee shall keep a watch person on duty on the premises at
all times; provided, however, that it shall not be necessary to keep an extra
watchperson on duty on the premises when other workers or permittee are on the
premises. The location of such hole to be a minimum distance of 25 feet from
any existing sewer main.
(Prior Code, § 12-515) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.20 PITS.
   Either earthen or steel slush pits shall be permitted in connection with the
drilling operation, and pits are to be made impermeable if, in the opinion of
the oil and gas inspector, the drilling fluid requires it. In the event a steel
pit is used, the pit and its contents shall be removed from the premises and
the drilling site within 30 days after completion of the well. In the event an
earthen slush pit is used, same shall be filled and leveled within 180 days
after completion of the well. Such pits shall not be located within 20 feet of
an existing sanitary sewer, or 25 feet from the street right-of-way line.
(Prior Code, § 12-516)
§ 153.21 CASING.
   All casing must be of a grade quality commonly used by the industry in
similar conditions.
(Prior Code, § 12-517)
§ 153.22 SETTING AND CEMENTING CASING.
   No well shall be drilled within the town without properly setting surface
casing to a minimum depth of 400 feet, subject to control of the State
Corporation Commission. No well shall be drilled within the corporate limits of
the town without cementing the surface casing by the pump and plug method with
sufficient cement to completely fill all the annular space behind such casing
to surface ground; and without cementing the production string by the pump and
plug method with sufficient cement to completely fill all the annular space
behind the production string to at least 400 feet above the highest oil or gas
bearing horizon, subject to control of the State Corporation Commission.
(Prior Code, § 12-518)
§ 153.23 BLOW-OUT PREVENTERS.
   No well shall be drilled within the corporate limits of the town without
being; properly equipped without blow-out preventers. Nor will drilling fluid
other than drilling “mud” of sufficiently high density to control natural gas
flows be used without first demonstrating either that such “blow-out”
conditions are unlikely or that suitable safeguards have been provided to
ensure safe drilling conditions at all times.
(Prior Code, § 12-519)
§ 153.24 DRILL STEM TESTS.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person in connection with the
drilling or reworking operation of any well within the corporate limits of the
town to take and to complete any drill stem test or tests except during
daylight hours, and then only if the well effluent during the test is produced
through an adequate oil and gas separator to storage tanks, and the effluent
remaining in the drill pipe at the time the tool is closed is flushed to the
surface by circulating drilling fluid down the annuals and up the drill pipe.
(Prior Code, § 12-520) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.25 PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN AND SANITARY.
   The premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, free from
rubbish of every character, to the satisfaction of the town staff, at all times
during drilling operations or reworking operations are being conducted and as
long thereafter as oil or gas is being produced therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 12-521)
§ 153.26 POWER.
   After completion of drilling operations, motive power for all operations
shall be electric only.
(Prior Code, § 12-522)
§ 153.27 STORAGE TANKS AND SEPARATORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to use, construct
or operate in connection with any producing well within the corporate limits of
the town, any crude oil storage tanks except to the extent of two low-type
steel tanks for all storage, not exceeding 500 barrels capacity for each well
connected thereto, and so constructed and maintained as to be vapor-tight and
properly vented. A permittee may use, construct and operate a conventional
steel separator, vapor recovery unit and such other approved tanks and
appurtenances as are necessary for treating oil with each of the facilities to
be so constructed and maintained as to be vapor-tight. Each oil/gas separator
shall be equipped with both a regulation pressure relief safety valve and
bursting head. All such tanks shall be placed above ground, and the tanks shall
be placed upon a suitable earth or concrete pad. All tubing for the tanks and
separators shall be made of internally plastic-coated steel.
   (B)   The use of a central tank battery is permitted so long as not more
than two tanks as specified in division (A) above are used for each well
connected to the battery.
   (C)   The tank or tanks shall be enclosed within a conventional type
firewall constructed of compacted earth and sufficient water shall be used
during the firewall construction to assure adequate compaction.
subject to control of the State Corporation Commission.
   (D)   An oil/gas separator shall be equipped with both a regulation pressure
relief safety valve and bursting head. All such tanks shall be placed above
ground, and the tanks shall be placed upon a suitable earth or concrete pad.
All tubing for the tanks and separators shall be made of internally plastic-
coated steel.
   (E)   The use of a central tank battery is permitted so long as not more
than two tanks as specified in division (D) above are used for each well
connected to the battery.
   (F)   The tank or tanks shall be enclosed within a conventional type
firewall constructed of compacted earth and sufficient water shall be used
during the firewall construction to assure adequate compaction.
   (G)   The firewall enclosing the tank shall have a minimum capacity equal to
two times the volume of the tanks enclosed.
   (H)   The tanks shall be within the firewall and shall be fenced and
landscaped to assure them of being practically unseen when viewed from outside
the fenced or landscaped enclosure.
   (I)   The separators shall be installed in a manner that will assure them of
being practically unseen when viewed from outside the fenced or landscaped
enclosure.
   (J)   No tanks or separators shall be located closer than 300 feet to a
dwelling, business structure, school or street without the permittee having
first secured the written permission of the owner or owners thereof; except
that no storage tank or separator shall be located nearer than 400 feet from a
property line of a residential subdivision.
   (K)   All petroleum flow lines shall be either steel pipe or thread
connected fiber glass pipe certified 1,000 psi test according to A.P.I.
(American Petroleum Institute).
(Prior Code, § 12-523) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.28 FENCING.
   Any person who completes any well as a producer shall have the obligation to
enclose the well, together with its surface facilities and storage tanks, by a
substantial, smooth new wire fence sufficiently high and properly built so as
to ordinarily keep persons and animals out of the enclosure with all gates
thereon to be kept locked when permittee or his or her employees are not within
the enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 12-524)
§ 153.29 VENTING AND FLARING OF GAS.
   No person engaged in drilling or operating any well shall permit gas to
escape or be vented into the air unless the gas be flared and burned. All gas
flared or burned from a torch, pipe or any other burning device, within the
corporate limits of the town must be done in such a manner so as not to
constitute a fire hazard to any property and the location of the torch, pipe or
other burning device, the construction thereof, the maintenance thereof and the
operation thereof, shall at all times be in full compliance with such
regulations as may from time to time be issued by the oil and gas inspector of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-525) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.30 DISPOSAL OF SALTWATER.
   Permittee shall make adequate provisions for the disposal of all saltwater
or other impurities which may be brought to the surface, such disposal to be
made in such manner as to not contaminate the water supply, present or
prospective, or to injure surface vegetation. Such saltwater disposal shall be
accomplished with the use of fiberglass pipe or plastic pipe (SDR-7 or equal)
with tracer wire installed in the ditch at the time of construction. The depth
of such saltwater disposal line to be a minimum of 36 inches.
(Prior Code, § 12-526)
§ 153.31 PROHIBITION AGAINST USE OF SEWER SYSTEM.
   No person engaged in drilling or operating any well shall permit the use of
the sewer system of the town for the purpose of discharging any deleterious
substance resulting from any such oil or gas activities into the sewer system,
No drill site shall be located within 25 feet of any existing sanitary sewer
main or 25 feet from the street right-of-way line.
(Prior Code, § 12-527) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.32 VIOLATION OF STATE OF FEDERAL LAWS OR REGULATIONS.
   Any laws of the state or any rules, regulations or requirements of any state
or federal regulatory body having jurisdiction. In reference to drilling,
completing, equipping, operating, producing, maintaining or abandoning an oil
or gas well or related appurtenances, equipment or facilities, or in reference
to firewalls, fire protection, blowout protection or convenience of persons or
property, shall also be a part of this chapter and shall be enforced with like
effect with the other provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-528) Penalty, see §
153.99
PROCEDURES
§ 153.45 SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROCEDURES FOR OIL AND GAS PERMITS.
   (A)   These procedures are designed to provide a quick but thorough method
by which the town can make an informed decision. In each case, the issue before
the Board of Trustees is whether a specific drilling proposal by reason of its
proximity to urban settings and of its physical character, represents a
detriment to the public health, safety and welfare. If the proposal does not
represent a detriment, the Board of Trustees will grant a special exception
authorizing the issuance of a permit to engage in whatever phase of activity
has been requested. The permit will embody all standard conditions set forth in
§§
153.15 through
153.32 and any additional conditions which are deemed necessary by the Board of
Trustees relating to a particular permit.
   (B)   If the proposal does represent a detriment, and conditions of
operation cannot sufficiently mitigate the detriment, the request for a special
exception will be denied. In any event, the permit process shall proceed as set
forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-531)
§ 153.46 DRILLING PHASE.
   (A)   The applicant shall contact the Town Clerk-Treasurer or oil and gas
inspector for a pre-application conference in order to become familiar with the
process.
   (B)   The applicant shall complete the application for oil and gas drilling
and operations. This application must be accompanied by a site plan with
information as required in §§
153.15 through
153.32 and a route map which will be supplied by the town. The application will
also be accompanied by a list of the names and mailing addresses of all of the
property owners within a 600-foot radius of the proposed well. The list shall
show the names and the last known addresses of all such property owners as
shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the office of the County Treasurer.
The application fee is required to be submitted at this time.
   (C)   The town staff will advise the applicant of the date of the hearing
before the Board of Trustees and of the standard conditions which are
automatically imposed, should the exception be granted. The staff shall set the
application for a hearing before the Board of Trustees which shall be within 30
days of receipt of completed forms. The staff shall mail a public notice of
hearing to property owners as provided by the applicant and shall cause the
notice to be published in a legal newspaper located in the county, all at least
ten days in advance of the meeting. A sign shall be posted at the closest
public location near the subject parcel. The notice shall indicate the nature
of the request, the name of the applicant, a general location of the proposed
well and the specific legal description. It will also contain information
regarding the date, time and location of the hearing as well as the phone
number for the town representative from which access to additional information
may be obtained. The staff shall prepare recommendations regarding the
application as requested by the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees will hear the application and approve the
request with standard conditions or special conditions as may be appropriate or
deny the application. In no case will the Board of Trustees table or continue
action upon the request for a period in excess of 40 days from the date of the
first hearing. At this time, the applicant will post bond and supply insurance
binders in accordance with the terms of §§
153.15 through
153.32. After approval of the exception by the Board of Trustees, and upon
receipt of the bonds and insurance binders, the oil and gas inspector will
issue a permit to drill, deepen or plug back which permit will specify the
standard conditions and any special conditions. Such permit shall be issued
within two working days of the granting of special exception. The operator
shall notify the town staff of his or her intention to “rig-up” within 24 hours
of commencement.
   (E)   If the applicant should fail to begin operations within 90 days from
the date of approval, or if the applicant ceases to operate for a period of 90
consecutive days, the well shall enter dormant well status. Dormant well status
will continue until the operator receives permission to recommence operations,
until the permit is revoked or until the well is properly abandoned. In no case
may operations on a dormant well recommence until the oil and gas inspector
officially removes a permit from dormant status. The oil and gas inspector
shall make an administrative determination as to whether conditions have
changed sufficiently to warrant reconsideration of the permit. If conditions
have changed sufficiently, the permit shall be placed upon the agenda for the
next regular meeting of the Board of Trustees for reconsideration. If
conditions have not changed sufficiently from the time of the granting of the
permit to warrant its reconsideration, the oil and gas inspector may remove the
permit from dormant well status and allow operations to recommence.
   (F)   Comprehensive programs which involve the drilling of several wells may
be entertained at one time by the Board of Trustees and separate permits may be
issued for each well in the program at one time. Wells within a recognized and
approved comprehensive drilling program which are directly dependent upon the
function of other wells within the comprehensive program, shall enjoy an
indefinite period from the time of the granting of the permit until
commencement of the well drilling and operations. During such period, such well
shall not be given dormant status so long as the comprehensive drilling and
production program is diligently pursued to completion. The applicant in such
cases must demonstrate to the oil and gas inspector that they are pursuing a
timely schedule for the completion of the program. If the town staff or any
member of the Board of Trustees observes little or no effort being made to
complete a comprehensive drilling program for any extended period of time, they
may recommend to the Board of Trustees that the balance of the permits yet to
be commenced be reconsidered for dormant status or revocation.
   (G)   The permit shall be posted in a clearly visible location at the well
site and the oil and gas inspector will make inspections as necessary during
the drilling phase.
   (H)   When the applicant nears the point of setting surface casing, he or
she shall notify the town staff of his or her intent to set surface casing in
order to allow the oil and gas inspector the opportunity to observe the
cementing of the casing.
   (I)   Upon termination of the drilling phase, the applicant will notify the
town staff of termination of the drilling phase.
(Prior Code, § 12-532)
§ 153.47 COMPLETION PHASE.
   (A)   The applicant shall complete the well as necessary in accordance with
all required conditions. The completion phase occurs after drilling equipment
has been moved off site and the well is being prepared for production or
injection.
   (B)   The oil and gas inspector shall inspect during the completion phase as
necessary to ensure compliance with the permit.
   (C)   Upon the termination of the completion phase, the applicant shall
notify the town staff of termination of the completion phase. This will serve
as notice to the oil and gas inspector that he or she will need to inspect a
completed producing or injecting well site or, in the event the well is not
completed to the satisfaction of the applicant, that the abandonment phase will
soon initiate. A copy of State Corporation Commission Form 1002-A shall also be
submitted at this time and the oil and gas inspector shall complete an
inspection report, drilling and completion.
(Prior Code, § 12-533)
§ 153.48 OPERATIONAL PHASE.
   The applicant shall operate within the confines of the permit. The oil and
gas inspector performs annual inspections near the anniversary date of the
termination of the completion phase and other inspections as necessary and
notes them on an inspection report, operation phase.
(Prior Code, § 12-534)
§ 153.49 ABANDONMENT.
   The applicant shall submit a copy of State Corporation Commission Form No.
1003 to the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer which will serve as notice of
the abandonment of the well site. The oil and gas inspector shall perform a
final inspection to determine whether the site has been reclaimed as required
by the permit. If he or she is satisfied of compliance, he or she will so note
on an inspection permit abandonment, a copy of which will be made available to
the applicant. If the oil and gas inspector is not satisfied of compliance, he
or she will so note on the inspection report along with the reasons therefor.
Within six months after approval of abandonment on the final inspection, the
inspector will notify the applicant that the well site has been reclaimed
sufficiently and that surety and insurance will no longer be required.
(Prior Code, § 12-535)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute an offense against the
town and any person, firm or corporation violating any of the terms or
provisions hereof shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.99. Failure to comply with the provisions hereof shall be deemed a
continuing offense, and each day’s continuance of failure to comply herewith
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 12-505)
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed so as to preclude the town
from seeking injunctive relief, damages or any other remedies to enforce the
terms and conditions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-506)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
   
154.01   Statement of purpose
   
154.02   Finding of facts
   
154.03   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
154.04   Definitions
   
154.05   Application; compliance; interpretation
   
154.06   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
154.07   Development permit required
   
154.08   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.09   Designation of Building Inspector; duties
   
154.10   Permit procedures; approval or denial
   
154.11   Variance procedures
   
154.12   General standards; flood hazard areas
   
154.13   Specific standards; flood hazard areas
   
154.14   Standards for subdivision proposals; flood hazard areas
§ 154.01 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area.
(Prior Code, § 12-201)
§ 154.02 FINDING OF FACTS.
   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services and extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare. These flood losses are created by the cumulative
effect of obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights
and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable
to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 12-202)
§ 154.03 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations are established to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
increase flood hazards to other lands.
(Prior Code, § 12-203)
§ 154.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of an interpretation by the Town Board of
Trustees or its designated agency of any provision of this chapter or a request
for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet. This
condition occurs where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path
of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be
evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or
contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent
or sale for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which
the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and the
construction of streets) is completed before the original effective date of
this chapter.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring of concrete
pads, or the construction of streets).
   FLOOD OR FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
 
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Insurance Administration, where the areas within the boundaries of
special flood hazards have been designated as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration. The report contains flood profiles, the water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood hazard boundary-floodway map.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used for storage purposes only is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not include
recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   NEW MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent or sale for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which the mobile
home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities,
either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and the construction
of streets) is completed on or after the original effective date of this
chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, plots or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units, or not as part of the main structure. For a structure (other
than a mobile home) without a basement or poured footings, the START OF
CONSTRUCTION includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure
on any part thereof of its piling or foundation. For mobile homes not within a
mobile home park or mobile home subdivision, START OF CONSTRUCTION means the
affixing of the mobile home to its permanent site. For mobile homes within
mobile home parks or mobile home subdivisions, START OF CONSTRUCTION is the
date on which the construction of facilities for servicing the site on which
the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the construction of
streets, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and
installation of utilities) is completed.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a mobile home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by the chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-204)
§ 154.05 APPLICATION; COMPLIANCE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its
use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
   (C)   This chapter is not intended to repeat, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   (D)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 12-205)
§ 154.06 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration on its flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) for the town, and any
revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-206)
§ 154.07 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-207)
§ 154.08 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages.
   (C)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the town or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 12-208)
§ 154.09 DESIGNATION OF BUILDING INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Building Inspector is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Town Building Inspector shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by §
154.07;
      (3)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
      (4)   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(for example, where there appears to be conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions);
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Water Resources Board
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Insurance Administration;
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished; and
      (7)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
154.06, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data
available from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the
provisions of §§
154.12 through
154.14.
(Prior Code, § 12-209)
§ 154.10 PERMIT PROCEDURES; APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the Town
Building Inspector on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions
and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed
structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special
flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures;
      (2)   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
154.13; and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated us a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Town Building
Inspector shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other fonds to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(Prior Code, § 12-210)
§ 154.11 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall hear and render judgment on requests
for variances from the requirements of this chapter. It shall hear and render
judgment on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any
requirement, decision or determination made by the Building Inspector in the
enforcement or administration of the chapter. Any person or persons aggrieved
by the decision of the Board of Adjustment may appeal such decision in the
courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
154.10(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this chapter,
the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the granting of variances
as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of §
154.01.
   (C)   Prerequisites for granting variances include the following:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation no more than two feet below the base flood elevation, and that the
cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting
from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (D)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
   (F)   The Building Inspector shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Insurance
Administration upon request.
(Prior Code, § 12-211)
§ 154.12 GENERAL STANDARDS; FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (E)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters; and
   (F)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 12-212)
§ 154.13 SPECIFIC STANDARDS; FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
154.06,
154.09 and
154.14, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the Town
Engineer that the standard of this division (A), as proposed in §
154.10 is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to the level of the base flood elevation
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be floodproofed so
that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Town Engineer that the standards of this paragraph as
proposed in §
154.10 are satisfied.
   (C)   Mobile homes. No mobile home shall be placed in a floodway or, if
applicable, a coastal high hazard area, except in an existing mobile home park
or existing mobile home subdivision. All mobile homes shall be anchored to
resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Specific requirements shall be:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties at each of the four corners of the mobile home,
with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations and mobile homes
less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties at each corner of the home with five additional ties per
side at intermediate points and mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring
four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
(Prior Code, § 12-213)
§ 154.14 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS; FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with §§
154.01 through
154.03.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions shall meet
development permit requirements of §§
154.07,
154.10 and
154.12 through
154.14.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or
five acres, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
154.06 and
154.09.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 12-214)
CHAPTER 155: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
155.01   More than one dwelling per lot prohibited
   
155.02   Temporary exception application
   
155.03   Requirements of exceptions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 MORE THAN ONE DWELLING PER LOT PROHIBITED.
   No person or other entity may establish more than one single dwelling per
one platted lot within the town limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-101)
§ 155.02 TEMPORARY EXCEPTION APPLICATION.
   A temporary exception to this chapter may be requested of the Town Board of
Trustees by petitioning the Board of Trustees requesting that another dwelling
be placed on the platted lot.
(Prior Code, § 12-102)
§ 155.03 REQUIREMENTS OF EXCEPTIONS.
   Such temporary exception to this chapter, as provided in §
155.02, may be granted if sufficient proof of need is furnished to the Board of
Trustees. Any such temporary exception so granted shall not exceed a period of
12 months from the date thereof. Such exception shall be automatically revoked
upon its expiration date unless the Board of Trustees is requested to review
the exception and upon such review shall renew such exception for an additional
period not to exceed 12 months. Automatic revocation shall occur on each
subsequent expiration date thereafter subject to the same annual review with
additional maximum periods of 12 months extensions to be authorized only upon
review by the Board of Trustees. A signed affidavit is required stating the
need for this second dwelling and that no fee (e.g., rent) be imposed for the
use of the second dwelling, with a signed affidavit to be required upon each
subsequent request for extension, the affidavit to state that the facts and
conditions of the matter remain the same as set forth in the original
application.
(Prior Code, § 12-103)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity who violates the provisions of this chapter shall
be notified to abate such violation within ten days. Failure to abate shall
constitute a misdemeanor and upon conviction is punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 12-104)
   (B)   In addition to proceeding under authority of division (A) above, the
town is entitled to pursue all other civil remedies to which it is entitled in
order to enjoin a violation hereof against a person or entity so violating
same.
(Prior Code, § 12-105)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING CODE
Section
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Definitions
   
156.04   Establishment of zoning districts
   
156.05   Zoning map
   
156.06   Use regulations
   
156.07   Development standards
   
156.08   Administration and enforcement
   
156.09   Amendments
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Kellyville Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2024-002, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the community by establishing comprehensive zoning
regulations governing the use and development of land within the town.
(Ord. 2024-002, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 156.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A). Areas designated for farming and agricultural
use.
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C). Areas designated for businesses and commercial
activities.
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I). Areas designated for manufacturing, processing and
other industrial activities.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R). Areas designated primarily for single-family and
multi-family dwellings.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A designated section of the town for which specific land
use regulations are prescribed.
(Ord. 2024-002, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 156.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The town is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
   (A)   Residential District (R);
   (B)   Commercial District (C);
   (C)   Industrial District (I); and
   (D)   Agricultural District (A).
(Ord. 2024-002, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 156.05 ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts are shown on the official zoning map
of the town, which is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter. The
zoning map shall be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection.
(Ord. 2024-002, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 156.06 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Residential District (R). 
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Single-family dwellings;
         (b)   Multi-family dwellings; and
         (c)   Parks and recreational facilities.
      (2)   Conditional uses. 
         (a)   Home-based businesses; and
         (b)   Schools and educational institutions.
   (B)   Commercial District (C).
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Retail stores;
         (b)   Restaurants; and
         (c)   Offices.
      (2)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Hotels and motels; and
         (b)   Entertainment venues.
   (C)   Industrial District (I). 
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Manufacturing plants;
         (b)   Warehouses; and
         (c)   Distribution centers.
      (2)   Conditional uses. 
         (a)   Heavy industrial activities; and
         (b)   Research and development facilities.
   (D)   Agricultural District (A). 
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Crop production;
         (b)   Livestock farming; and
         (c)   Nurseries.
      (2)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Agricultural processing facilities; and
         (b)   Farm-based tourism.
(Ord. 2024-002, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 156.07 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential District (R). 
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 3,750 feet;
      (2)   Minimum living size: 1,000 square feet;
      (3)   Maximum building height: 26 feet; and
      (4)   Setback requirements: 25 feet front, 15 feet rear and ten feet
side.
   (B)   Commercial District (C). 
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 5,000 feet;
      (2)   Maximum building height: 35 feet; and
      (3)   Setback requirements: 25 feet front, 15 feet rear and ten feet
side.
   (C)   Industrial District (I).
      (1)   Minimum lot size: two acres;
      (2)   Maximum building height: 45 feet; and
      (3)   Setback requirements: 75 feet front, 50 feet rear and 75 feet side.
   (D)   Agricultural District (A). 
      (1)   Minimum lot size: two acres;
      (2)   Maximum building height: 35 feet; and
      (3)   Setback requirements: 25 feet front, 15 feet rear and ten feet
side.
(Ord. 2024-002, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 156.08 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be the
responsibility of the Town Administrator, who shall be appointed by the Town
Board.
   (B)   No building or structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered without a permit issued by the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 2024-002, passed 7-9-2024) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.09 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended by the Town Board upon recommendation of the
Town Administrator, following a public hearing.
(Ord. 2024-002, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more
than $280 for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2024-002, passed 7-9-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CORPORATE LIMITS AMENDMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   FUNDS
      
V.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VI.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: CORPORATE LIMITS AMENDMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2017-04  8-8-2017    Extending the corporate limits to include Maple Drive,
                     Graceland Road, 179th south then 169th east to 184th.
                     Extending the corporate limits to include certain
2017-05  8-11-2017   properties, located in Lot 1, Section 1 of Whipporwill
                     Estates.
2017-06  8-11-2017   Extending the corporate limits to include certain
                     properties, located in Lot 4, Graceland Ranchettes.
                     Extending the corporate limits to include certain
2017-07  11-14-2017  properties in Section 12, Township 17 North, Range 10 East
                     of the Indian Meridian.
                     Extending the corporate limits to include certain
2018-0   4-10-2018   properties, lying in the northwest quarter of Section 13
                     in the county.
2023-008 11-14-2023  Extending the corporate limits to include the roadways
                     shown in Exhibit A of this ordinance.
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2021-003 3-9-2021    Annexing the following real property to the municipality:
                     Lots 1 through 11, Block 3 of Max Meyer Addition.
                     Annexing the following real property to the municipality:
2022-01  8-10-2022   The southwest quarter of Section 23, Township 17 North,
                     Range 10, east of the Indian base.
                     Annexing the following real property to the municipality:
2022-004 11-10-2022  A tract of land part of the north half of the northeast
                     quarter of Section 24, Township 17 North, Range 10, east
                     of the Indian base.
2023-003 2-14-2023   Annexing the following real property to the municipality:
                     19159 W Highway 66.
2023-006 5-9-2023    Annexing the following real property to the municipality:
                     12-17-10 Tract D-2.
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2022-005 1-10-2023   Granting a gas franchise to the Oklahoma Gas and Electric
                     Company.
2023-001 1-10-2023   Granting a cable franchise to Vyve Broadband.
 
TABLE IV: FUNDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         Creating the Police Equipment, Training and Education
                     Fund.
                   (Prior Code, § 1- 111)
 
TABLE V: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Designating Maple Drive from its intersection with Allen
2024-003 7-9-2024    Street to the south town limits as a Residential District
                     (R).
                    
 
TABLE VI: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2025-005 4-8-2025    Closing 20-foot alleyway lying adjacent and south of Lot 1
                     and adjacent and north of Lots 5 and 6, Block 2.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.R.S. Section Code Section
O.R.S. Section                Code Section
11 O.S. 8-106                 31.01;
                              31.03
11 O.S. 12-101                30.01
11 O.S. 16-101 et seq.        30.06
11 O.S. 16-112                34.025
11 O.S. 16-301 et seq.        30.06
11 O.S. 16-302                30.06
11 O.S. 27-111                32.15
11 O.S. 27-123                32.26
11 O.S. 27-124                32.26
47 O.S. 11-1102               74.20
21 O.S.                       130.03;
                              133.08
22 O.S. 1115.1 through 1115.5 32.24
36 O.S.                       91.46
37A O.S. 1-103                133.01
42 O.S.                       151.05
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.         70.27
47 O.S. 2-117                 10.99
47 O.S. 7-204                 70.28
47 O.S. 7-503                 70.28
47 O.S. 7-600                 70.28
47 O.S. 7-606                 70.28
47 O.S. 10-101 et seq.        70.27
47 O.S. 15-112                72.12
50 O.S. 12                    90.43
50 O.S. 14                    90.43
50 O.S. 15                    90.43
50 O.S. 16                    90.44;
                              90.46
50 O.S. 17                    90.47
59 O.S. 353.1                 34.030
59 O.S. 1001 et seq.          150.022
63 O.S. 1 et seq.             133.17
63 O.S. 1-1011                90.49
63 O.S. 2-101                 133.04
63 O.S. 683.1 et seq.         33.04
63 O.S. 1084                  151.03
63 O.S. 2811 et seq.          34.125
68 O.S. 205                   34.043;
                              34.109
68 O.S. 217                   34.039;
                              34.105
68 O.S. 220                   34.040;
                              34.106
                              34.041;
68 O.S. 227                   34.107;
                              34.106
68 O.S. 301                   133.17
                              34.023;
                              34.024;
                              34.028;
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.          34.031;
                              34.034;
                              34.038;
                              34.046
68 O.S. 1352                  34.021
                              34.099;
                              34.100;
68 O.S. 1401 et seq.          34.103;
                              34.104;
                              34.110
68 O.S. 1401                  34.096
68 O.S. 1408                  34.103
68 O.S. 1622                  132.04
70 O.S. 1-106                 151.05
74 O.S. 7-600                 70.28
75 O.S. 309 through 317       32.09
                              
 
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
1-107              10.20
1-108              10.99
1-109              10.99
1-110              11.01
1-111              TSO Table IV
1-201              11.02
2-101              30.01
2-102              30.02
2-103              30.03
2-104              30.04
2-105              30.05
2-106              30.06
2-201              30.20
2-301              31.01
2-302              31.02
2-303              31.03
2-304              31.04
2-305              31.05
2-306              31.06
2-307              31.07
2-308              31.08
2-309              31.08
2-310              31.08
2-311              31.09
2-312              31.10
2-313              31.11
2-314              31.12
2-315              31.13
3-101              111.01
3-102              111.02
3-103              111.03
3-104              111.04
3-105              111.05
3-106              111.06
3-107              111.07
3-108              111.08
3-109              111.09
3-110              111.10
3-111              111.11
3-112              111.99
3-201              111.25
3-202              111.26
3-203              111.27
3-204              111.28
3-205              111.29
3-206              111.30
3-207              111.31
3-208              111.32
3-209              111.33
3-210              111.34
3-211              111.35
3-212              111.99
4-101              91.01
4-102              91.02
4-102.1            91.03
4-103              91.04
4-104              91.05
4-105              91.06
4-106              91.07
4-107              91.08
4-108              91.09
4-109              91.30
4-110              91.10
4-111              91.11
4-112              91.12
4-113              91.31
4-114              91.32
4-115              91.33
4-116              91.34
4-117              91.13
4-118              91.14
4-119              91.15
4-120              91.99
4-121              91.16
4-122              91.45
4-123              91.46
4-124              91.47
4-125              91.48
4-126              91.99
5-101              150.001
5-102              150.002
5-103              150.999
5-104              150.003
5-105              150.004
5-106              150.005
5-107              150.006
5-108              150.007
5-201              150.020
5-202              150.021
5-203              150.022
5-204              150.023
5-205              150.024
5-301              150.035
5-302              150.036
5-303              150.037
5-304              150.038
5-305              150.039
5-306              150.040
5-307              150.041
5-308              150.042
5-309              150.043
5-310              150.044
5-401              150.070
5-501              150.055
5-701              150.999
5-702              150.999
6-101              32.01
6-102              32.02
6-103              32.03
6-104              32.04
6-105              32.04
6-106              32.05
6-107              32.06
6-108              32.07
6-109              32.08
6-110              32.09
6-111              32.10
6-112              32.11
6-113              32.12
6-114              32.13
6-115              32.14
6-116              32.15
6-117              32.16
6-118              32.17
6-119              32.18
6-120              32.19
6-121              32.20
6-122              32.21
6-123              32.22
6-124              32.23
6-125              32.24
6-126              32.25
6-127              32.26
6-128              32.27
6-129              32.28
6-131              32.29
7-101              34.001
7-102              34.002
7-103              34.003
7-104              34.004
7-105              34.005
7-106              34.006
7-107              34.007
7-108              34.008
7-109              34.009
7-201              34.020
7-202              34.021
7-203              34.022
7-204              34.023
7-205              34.024
7-206              34.025
7-207              34.026
7-208              34.027
7-209              34.028
7-210              34.029
7-211              34.030
7-212              34.031
7-213              34.032
7-214              34.033
7-215              34.034
7-216              34.035
7-217              34.036
7-218              34.037
7-219              34.038
7-220              34.039
7-221              34.040
7-222              34.041
7-223              34.042
7-224              34.043
7-225              34.044
7-226              34.045
7-227              34.046
7-228              34.047
7-229              34.048
7-230              34.049
7-231              34.050
7-232              34.051
7-233              34.052
7-301              34.065
7-302              34.066
7-401              34.080
7-402              34.081
7-403              34.082
7-404              34.083
7-405              34.084
7-501              34.095
7-502              34.096
7-503              34.097
7-504              34.098
7-505              34.099
7-506              34.100
7-507              34.101
7-508              34.102
7-509              34.102
7-510              34.103
7-511              34.104
7-512              34.105
7-513              34.106
7-514              34.107
7-515              34.108
7-516              34.109
7-517              34.110
7-518              34.111
7-519              34.112
7-601              34.125
7-602              34.126
7-603              34.127
7-604              34.128
7-605              34.129
7-606              34.130
7-607              34.131
8-101              90.01
8-102              90.02
8-103              90.03
8-104              90.04
8-105              90.05
8-106              90.06
8-107              90.07
8-108              90.08
8-109              90.09
8-110              90.10
8-111              90.11
8-112              90.12
8-113              90.13
8-114              90.14
8-115              90.99
8-201              90.25;
                   90.99
8-202              90.26
8-203              90.27
8-204              90.99
8-301              90.40
8-302              90.41
8-303              90.42
8-304              90.43
8-305              90.43
8-306              90.44
8-307              90.45
8-308              90.46
8-309              90.47
8-310              90.48
8-311              90.49
8-312              90.50
8-313              90.51
8-401              90.65
8-402              90.66
8-403              90.67
8-404              90.99
9-101              110.01
9-102              110.02
9-103              110.03
9-104              110.04
9-105              110.05
9-106              110.06
9-107              110.07
9-108              110.08
9-109              110.20
9-110              110.21
9-111              110.99
10-101             130.01
10-102             130.02
10-103             130.03
10-201             131.01
10-202             131.02
10-203             131.03
10-204             131.04
10-205             131.05
10-206             131.06
10-207             131.07
10-208             131.08
10-209             131.09
10-210             131.10
10-211             131.11
10-212             131.12
10-213             131.13
10-214             131.14
10-215             131.15
10-216             131.16
10-301             132.01
10-302             132.02
10-303             132.03
10-304             132.04
10-305             132.05
10-306             132.06
10-307             132.07
10-308             132.08
10-309             132.09
10-401             133.01
10-402             133.02
10-403             133.03
10-404             133.04
10-405             133.05
10-406             133.06
10-407             133.06
10-408             133.06
10-409             133.07
10-410             133.08
10-411             133.08
10-412             133.09
10-413             133.10
10-414             133.11
10-415             133.12
10-416             133.13
10-417             133.13
10-418             133.14
10-419             133.15
10-420             133.16
10-421             133.16
10-422             133.16
10-423             133.16
10-424             133.16
10-425             133.16
10-426             133.17
10-427             133.17
10-428             133.17
10-429             133.17
10-430             133.99
10-501             133.18
10-601             134.01
10-602             134.02
10-603             134.03
10-604             134.04
10-605             134.05
10-606             134.06
10-607             134.07
10-608             134.08
10-609             134.09
10-610             134.10
10-611             134.11
10-701             130.99
11-101             93.01
11-102             93.02
11-103             93.03
11-104             93.04
11-105             93.05
11-106             93.06
11-107             93.07
11-108             93.08
11-109             93.09
11-110             93.10
11-201             94.01
11-202             94.02
11-203             94.03
11-204             94.04
11-205             94.05
11-206             94.06
11-207             94.07
11-208             94.08
11-301             93.25;
                   93.99
12-101             155.01
12-102             155.02
12-103             155.03
12-104             155.99
12-201             154.01
12-202             154.02
12-203             154.03
12-204             154.04
12-205             154.05
12-206             154.06
12-207             154.07
12-208             154.08
12-209             154.09
12-210             154.10
12-211             154.11
12-212             154.12
12-213             154.13
12-214             154.14
12-301             151.01
12-302             151.02
12-303             151.04
12-304             151.05
12-305             151.06
12-306             151.07
12-307             151.08
12-308             151.09
12-309             151.06
12-310             151.10
12-311             151.11
12-312             151.12
12-313             151.13
12-314             151.14
12-315             151.15
12-316             151.16
12-317             151.17
12-318             151.18
12-319             151.99
12-401             150.071
12-402             150.071
12-403             150.071
12-404             150.999
12-501             153.01
12-502             153.02
12-503             153.03
12-504             153.04
12-505             153.99
12-506             153.99
12-511             153.15
12-512             153.16
12-513             153.17
12-514             153.18
12-515             153.19
12-516             153.20
12-517             153.21
12-518             153.22
12-519             153.23
12-520             153.24
12-521             153.25
12-522             153.26
12-523             153.27
12-524             153.28
12-525             153.29
12-526             153.30
12-527             153.31
12-528             153.32
12-531             153.45
12-532             153.46
12-533             153.47
12-534             153.48
12-535             153.49
13-101             92.01
13-102             92.02
13-103             92.03
13-104             92.04
13-105             92.05
13-106             92.06
13-107             92.99
13-201             33.01
13-202             33.02
13-203             33.03
13-204             33.04
13-205             33.05
13-301             33.20
13-302             33.21
13-303             33.22
13-304             33.23
13-305             33.24
13-401             33.35
13-402             33.36
13-403             33.37
13-404             33.38
13-405             33.39
13-406             33.40
13-407             33.41
13-408             33.42
13-409             33.43
13-410             33.44
13-411             33.45
14-101             152.01
14-102             152.02
14-103             152.03
14-104             152.03
14-105             152.04
14-106             152.05
14-107             152.06
14-108             152.07
14-109             152.08
14-110             152.09
14-111             152.10
14-112             152.99
14-201             152.11
14-202             152.99
14-301             152.12
15-101             70.01
15-102             70.02
15-103             70.03
15-104             70.04
15-105             70.05
15-106             70.06
15-107             70.07
15-108             70.08
15-109             70.09
15-110             70.10
15-111             70.11
15-112             70.12
15-113             70.13
15-113.1           70.14
15-114             70.15
15-115             70.16
15-116             70.17
15-117             70.18
15-118             70.19
15-119             70.20
15-120             70.21
15-121             70.22
15-122             70.23
15-123             70.24
15-124             70.25
15-125             70.26
15-126             70.27
15-127             70.28
15-201             71.01
15-202             71.02
15-203             71.03
15-204             71.04
15-206             71.05
15-207             71.06
15-208             71.07
15-209             71.08
15-210             71.09
15-211             71.10
15-212             71.11
15-213             71.12
15-214             71.13
15-215             71.14
15-220             71.30
15-221             71.31
15-230             72.01
15-231             72.02
15-232             72.03
15-233             72.04
15-234             72.05
15-235             72.06
15-236             72.07
15-237             72.08
15-238             72.09
15-239             72.10
15-240             72.11
15-241             72.12
15-250             71.45
15-251             71.46
15-252             71.47
15-301             73.01
15-302             73.02
15-303             73.03
15-304             73.04
15-305             73.05
15-306             73.06
15-307             73.07
15-308             73.08
15-309             73.09
15-310             73.10
15-311             73.11
15-312             73.12
15-313             73.13
15-401             74.01
15-402             74.02
15-403             74.03
15-404             74.04
15-405             74.05
15-406             74.06
15-407             74.07
15-408             74.08
15-409             74.09
15-501             70.40
15-502             70.41
15-503             70.42
15-504             70.43
15-505             70.44
15-506             70.45
15-507             70.46
15-508             70.47
15-509             70.48
15-510             70.49
15-511             70.50
15-512             70.51
15-513             70.52
15-514             70.53
15-515             70.54
15-601             70.99
16-103             75.01
16-201             110.22
17-101             50.01
17-102             50.02
17-103             50.03
17-104             50.04
17-105             50.05
17-106             50.06
17-107             50.07
17-108             50.08
17-109             50.09
17-110             50.10
17-301             52.01
17-302             52.02
17-303             52.03
17-304             52.04
17-305             52.05
17-306             52.06
17-307             52.07
17-308             52.08
17-309             52.09
17-310             52.10
17-311             52.11
17-312             52.12
17-313             52.13
17-314             52.14
17-315             52.15
17-316             52.16
17-317             52.17
17-318             52.18
17-319             52.19
17-320             52.20
17-321             52.21
17-323             52.99
17-401             51.01
17-402             51.02
17-403             51.03
17-404             51.04
17-405             51.05
17-406             51.06
17-407             51.07
17-408             51.08
17-409             51.09
17-410             51.99
17-501             52.35
17-502             52.36
17-503             52.37
17-504             52.38
17-505             52.39
17-506             52.40
17-507             52.41
17-508             52.42
17-509             52.43
17-510             52.44
17-511             52.45
17-512             52.46
17-514             52.99
 
1-107   10.20
1-108   10.99
1-109   10.99
1-110   11.01
1-111   TSO Table IV
1-201   11.02
2-101   30.01
2-102   30.02
2-103   30.03
2-104   30.04
2-105   30.05
2-106   30.06
2-201   30.20
2-301   31.01
2-302   31.02
2-303   31.03
2-304   31.04
2-305   31.05
2-306   31.06
2-307   31.07
2-308   31.08
2-309   31.08
2-310   31.08
2-311   31.09
2-312   31.10
2-313   31.11
2-314   31.12
2-315   31.13
3-101   111.01
3-102   111.02
3-103   111.03
3-104   111.04
3-105   111.05
3-106   111.06
3-107   111.07
3-108   111.08
3-109   111.09
3-110   111.10
3-111   111.11
3-112   111.99
3-201   111.25
3-202   111.26
3-203   111.27
3-204   111.28
3-205   111.29
3-206   111.30
3-207   111.31
3-208   111.32
3-209   111.33
3-210   111.34
3-211   111.35
3-212   111.99
4-101   91.01
4-102   91.02
4-102.1   91.03
4-103   91.04
4-104   91.05
4-105   91.06
4-106   91.07
4-107   91.08
4-108   91.09
4-109   91.30
4-110   91.10
4-111   91.11
4-112   91.12
4-113   91.31
4-114   91.32
4-115   91.33
4-116   91.34
4-117   91.13
4-118   91.14
4-119   91.15
4-120   91.99
4-121   91.16
4-122   91.45
4-123   91.46
4-124   91.47
4-125   91.48
4-126   91.99
5-101   150.001
5-102   150.002
5-103   150.999
5-104   150.003
5-105   150.004
5-106   150.005
5-107   150.006
5-108   150.007
5-201   150.020
5-202   150.021
5-203   150.022
5-204   150.023
5-205   150.024
5-301   150.035
5-302   150.036
5-303   150.037
5-304   150.038
5-305   150.039
5-306   150.040
5-307   150.041
5-308   150.042
5-309   150.043
5-310   150.044
5-401   150.070
5-501   150.055
5-701   150.999
5-702   150.999
6-101   32.01
6-102   32.02
6-103   32.03
6-104   32.04
6-105   32.04
6-106   32.05
6-107   32.06
6-108   32.07
6-109   32.08
6-110   32.09
6-111   32.10
6-112   32.11
6-113   32.12
6-114   32.13
6-115   32.14
6-116   32.15
6-117   32.16
6-118   32.17
6-119   32.18
6-120   32.19
6-121   32.20
6-122   32.21
6-123   32.22
6-124   32.23
6-125   32.24
6-126   32.25
6-127   32.26
6-128   32.27
6-129   32.28
6-131   32.29
7-101   34.001
7-102   34.002
7-103   34.003
7-104   34.004
7-105   34.005
7-106   34.006
7-107   34.007
7-108   34.008
7-109   34.009
7-201   34.020
7-202   34.021
7-203   34.022
7-204   34.023
7-205   34.024
7-206   34.025
7-207   34.026
7-208   34.027
7-209   34.028
7-210   34.029
7-211   34.030
7-212   34.031
7-213   34.032
7-214   34.033
7-215   34.034
7-216   34.035
7-217   34.036
7-218   34.037
7-219   34.038
7-220   34.039
7-221   34.040
7-222   34.041
7-223   34.042
7-224   34.043
7-225   34.044
7-226   34.045
7-227   34.046
7-228   34.047
7-229   34.048
7-230   34.049
7-231   34.050
7-232   34.051
7-233   34.052
7-301   34.065
7-302   34.066
7-401   34.080
7-402   34.081
7-403   34.082
7-404   34.083
7-405   34.084
7-501   34.095
7-502   34.096
7-503   34.097
7-504   34.098
7-505   34.099
7-506   34.100
7-507   34.101
7-508   34.102
7-509   34.102
7-510   34.103
7-511   34.104
7-512   34.105
7-513   34.106
7-514   34.107
7-515   34.108
7-516   34.109
7-517   34.110
7-518   34.111
7-519   34.112
7-601   34.125
7-602   34.126
7-603   34.127
7-604   34.128
7-605   34.129
7-606   34.130
7-607   34.131
8-101   90.01
8-102   90.02
8-103   90.03
8-104   90.04
8-105   90.05
8-106   90.06
8-107   90.07
8-108   90.08
8-109   90.09
8-110   90.10
8-111   90.11
8-112   90.12
8-113   90.13
8-114   90.14
8-115   90.99
8-201   90.25; 90.99
8-202   90.26
8-203   90.27
8-204   90.99
8-301   90.40
8-302   90.41
8-303   90.42
8-304   90.43
8-305   90.43
8-306   90.44
8-307   90.45
8-308   90.46
8-309   90.47
8-310   90.48
8-311   90.49
8-312   90.50
8-313   90.51
8-401   90.65
8-402   90.66
8-403   90.67
8-404   90.99
9-101   110.01
9-102   110.02
9-103   110.03
9-104   110.04
9-105   110.05
9-106   110.06
9-107   110.07
9-108   110.08
9-109   110.20
9-110   110.21
9-111   110.99
10-101   130.01
10-102   130.02
10-103   130.03
10-201   131.01
10-202   131.02
10-203   131.03
10-204   131.04
10-205   131.05
10-206   131.06
10-207   131.07
10-208   131.08
10-209   131.09
10-210   131.10
10-211   131.11
10-212   131.12
10-213   131.13
10-214   131.14
10-215   131.15
10-216   131.16
10-301   132.01
10-302   132.02
10-303   132.03
10-304   132.04
10-305   132.05
10-306   132.06
10-307   132.07
10-308   132.08
10-309   132.09
10-401   133.01
10-402   133.02
10-403   133.03
10-404   133.04
10-405   133.05
10-406   133.06
10-407   133.06
10-408   133.06
10-409   133.07
10-410   133.08
10-411   133.08
10-412   133.09
10-413   133.10
10-414   133.11
10-415   133.12
10-416   133.13
10-417   133.13
10-418   133.14
10-419   133.15
10-420   133.16
10-421   133.16
10-422   133.16
10-423   133.16
10-424   133.16
10-425   133.16
10-426   133.17
10-427   133.17
10-428   133.17
10-429   133.17
10-430   133.99
10-501   133.18
10-601   134.01
10-602   134.02
10-603   134.03
10-604   134.04
10-605   134.05
10-606   134.06
10-607   134.07
10-608   134.08
10-609   134.09
10-610   134.10
10-611   134.11
10-701   130.99
11-101   93.01
11-102   93.02
11-103   93.03
11-104   93.04
11-105   93.05
11-106   93.06
11-107   93.07
11-108   93.08
11-109   93.09
11-110   93.10
11-201   94.01
11-202   94.02
11-203   94.03
11-204   94.04
11-205   94.05
11-206   94.06
11-207   94.07
11-208   94.08
11-301   93.25; 93.99
12-101   155.01
12-102   155.02
12-103   155.03
12-104   155.99
12-201   154.01
12-202   154.02
12-203   154.03
12-204   154.04
12-205   154.05
12-206   154.06
12-207   154.07
12-208   154.08
12-209   154.09
12-210   154.10
12-211   154.11
12-212   154.12
12-213   154.13
12-214   154.14
12-301   151.01
12-302   151.02
12-303   151.04
12-304   151.05
12-305   151.06
12-306   151.07
12-307   151.08
12-308   151.09
12-309   151.06
12-310   151.10
12-311   151.11
12-312   151.12
12-313   151.13
12-314   151.14
12-315   151.15
12-316   151.16
12-317   151.17
12-318   151.18
12-319   151.99
12-401   150.071
12-402   150.071
12-403   150.071
12-404   150.999
12-501   153.01
12-502   153.02
12-503   153.03
12-504   153.04
12-505   153.99
12-506   153.99
12-511   153.15
12-512   153.16
12-513   153.17
12-514   153.18
12-515   153.19
12-516   153.20
12-517   153.21
12-518   153.22
12-519   153.23
12-520   153.24
12-521   153.25
12-522   153.26
12-523   153.27
12-524   153.28
12-525   153.29
12-526   153.30
12-527   153.31
12-528   153.32
12-531   153.45
12-532   153.46
12-533   153.47
12-534   153.48
12-535   153.49
13-101   92.01
13-102   92.02
13-103   92.03
13-104   92.04
13-105   92.05
13-106   92.06
13-107   92.99
13-201   33.01
13-202   33.02
13-203   33.03
13-204   33.04
13-205   33.05
13-301   33.20
13-302   33.21
13-303   33.22
13-304   33.23
13-305   33.24
13-401   33.35
13-402   33.36
13-403   33.37
13-404   33.38
13-405   33.39
13-406   33.40
13-407   33.41
13-408   33.42
13-409   33.43
13-410   33.44
13-411   33.45
14-101   152.01
14-102   152.02
14-103   152.03
14-104   152.03
14-105   152.04
14-106   152.05
14-107   152.06
14-108   152.07
14-109   152.08
14-110   152.09
14-111   152.10
14-112   152.99
14-201   152.11
14-202   152.99
14-301   152.12
15-101   70.01
15-102   70.02
15-103   70.03
15-104   70.04
15-105   70.05
15-106   70.06
15-107   70.07
15-108   70.08
15-109   70.09
15-110   70.10
15-111   70.11
15-112   70.12
15-113   70.13
15-113.1   70.14
15-114   70.15
15-115   70.16
15-116   70.17
15-117   70.18
15-118   70.19
15-119   70.20
15-120   70.21
15-121   70.22
15-122   70.23
15-123   70.24
15-124   70.25
15-125   70.26
15-126   70.27
15-127   70.28
15-201   71.01
15-202   71.02
15-203   71.03
15-204   71.04
15-206   71.05
15-207   71.06
15-208   71.07
15-209   71.08
15-210   71.09
15-211   71.10
15-212   71.11
15-213   71.12
15-214   71.13
15-215   71.14
15-220   71.30
15-221   71.31
15-230   72.01
15-231   72.02
15-232   72.03
15-233   72.04
15-234   72.05
15-235   72.06
15-236   72.07
15-237   72.08
15-238   72.09
15-239   72.10
15-240   72.11
15-241   72.12
15-250   71.45
15-251   71.46
15-252   71.47
15-301   73.01
15-302   73.02
15-303   73.03
15-304   73.04
15-305   73.05
15-306   73.06
15-307   73.07
15-308   73.08
15-309   73.09
15-310   73.10
15-311   73.11
15-312   73.12
15-313   73.13
15-401   74.01
15-402   74.02
15-403   74.03
15-404   74.04
15-405   74.05
15-406   74.06
15-407   74.07
15-408   74.08
15-409   74.09
15-501   70.40
15-502   70.41
15-503   70.42
15-504   70.43
15-505   70.44
15-506   70.45
15-507   70.46
15-508   70.47
15-509   70.48
15-510   70.49
15-511   70.50
15-512   70.51
15-513   70.52
15-514   70.53
15-515   70.54
15-601   70.99
16-103   75.01
16-201   110.22
17-101   50.01
17-102   50.02
17-103   50.03
17-104   50.04
17-105   50.05
17-106   50.06
17-107   50.07
17-108   50.08
17-109   50.09
17-110   50.10
17-301   52.01
17-302   52.02
17-303   52.03
17-304   52.04
17-305   52.05
17-306   52.06
17-307   52.07
17-308   52.08
17-309   52.09
17-310   52.10
17-311   52.11
17-312   52.12
17-313   52.13
17-314   52.14
17-315   52.15
17-316   52.16
17-317   52.17
17-318   52.18
17-319   52.19
17-320   52.20
17-321   52.21
17-323   52.99
17-401   51.01
17-402   51.02
17-403   51.03
17-404   51.04
17-405   51.05
17-406   51.06
17-407   51.07
17-408   51.08
17-409   51.09
17-410   51.99
17-501   52.35
17-502   52.36
17-503   52.37
17-504   52.38
17-505   52.39
17-506   52.40
17-507   52.41
17-508   52.42
17-509   52.43
17-510   52.44
17-511   52.45
17-512   52.46
17-514   52.99
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2017-04  8-8-2017    TSO Table I
2017-05  8-11-2017   TSO Table I
2017-06  8-11-2017   TSO Table I
2017-07  11-14-2017  TSO Table I
2018-0   4-10-2018   TSO Table I
2021-001 2-9-2021    74.20;
                     74.99
2021-002 2-9-2021    32.28
2021-003 3-9-2021    TSO Table II
                     112.01—
2022-002 7-12-2022   112.09;
                     112.99
2022-003 7-12-2022   151.01—
                     151.03
2022-01  8-10-2022   TSO Table II
2022-004 11-10-2022  TSO Table II
2022-005 1-10-2023   TSO Table III
2023-001 1-10-2023   TSO Table III
2023-002 2-14-2023   134.11
2023-003 2-14-2023   TSO Table II
2023-004 3-14-2023   150.072
2023-005 3-14-2023   32.28
2023-006 5-9-2023    TSO Table II
2023-008 11-14-2023  TSO Table I
                     156.01—
2024-002 7-9-2024    156.09;
                     156.99
2024-003 7-9-2024    TSO Table V
                     91.60—
2025-002 - -2025     91.63;
                     91.99
2025-01  1-14-2025   71.15;
                     71.99
2025-005 4-8-2025    TSO Table VI
                    
 
 
2017-04   8-8-2017   TSO Table I
2017-05   8-11-2017   TSO Table I
2017-06   8-11-2017   TSO Table I
2017-07   11-14-2017   TSO Table I
2018-0   4-10-2018   TSO Table I
2021-001   2-9-2021   74.20; 74.99
2021-002   2-9-2021   32.28
2021-003   3-9-2021   TSO Table II
2022-002   7-12-2022   112.01—112.09; 112.99
2022-003   7-12-2022   151.01—151.03
2022-01   8-10-2022   TSO Table II
2022-004   11-10-2022   TSO Table II
2022-005   1-10-2023   TSO Table III
2023-001   1-10-2023   TSO Table III
2023-002   2-14-2023   134.11
2023-003   2-14-2023   TSO Table II
2023-004   3-14-2023   150.072
2023-005   3-14-2023   32.28
2023-006   5-9-2023   TSO Table II
2023-008   11-14-2023   TSO Table I
2024-002   7-9-2024   156.01—156.09; 156.99
2024-003   7-9-2024   TSO Table V
2025-002   - -2025   91.60—91.63; 91.99
2025-01   1-14-2025   71.15; 71.99
2025-005   4-8-2025   TSO Table VI
 
